Title : Dominance Over: Kerri Walsh Jennings Suffers First Olympic Loss In Beach Volleyball Semis

Original :
One of the most dominant runs in sports has come to an end. Kerri Walsh Jennings is now 26-1 in Olympic beach volleyball after suffering her first loss in four Olympics Tuesday night in the Rio semifinals.
After playing on the U.S. Women's Indoor Volleyball Team in the 2000 Olympics, Walsh Jennings moved to beach volleyball. Teaming with Misty May-Treanor, she won her first World Championships in 2003 in Rio de Janeiro. From 2003-2012, Walsh Jennings and May-Treanor won three Olympic gold medals, three World Championships gold medals and one World Championships silver medal. Entering her fourth Olympics on the beach in 2016, Walsh Jennings had never lost a match. She lost one Olympic set, coming in 2012.
May-Treanor retired after the 2012 Olympics, where the duo won gold with Walsh Jennings five weeks pregnant. Since 2013, Walsh Jennings has partnered with April Ross, a silver medalist in London. The duo won all four of their 2016 AVP Tour Olympic tune-ups. Through the quarterfinals, Walsh Jennings and Ross were 5-0, losing just one set along the way.
Brazilian pairing Ágatha and Bárbara, the No. 2 seed, came into the match 4-1, but proved less vulnerable than the Americans. Feeding off a hometown crowd shaking the sand at Copacabana Stadium for the midnight local time start, Ágatha and Bárbara claimed a tight first set and kept at least a two-point lead most of the second set. With a score of 22-20, 21-18, Brazil punched its ticket to the final and delivered Kerri Walsh Jennings her first-ever Olympic loss.
"They outplayed us pretty much in every way," Walsh Jennings said after the match. "Not out-hustled us, not out-hearted us, not out-team work us. Just outplayed us."
Ágatha and Bárbara get Germans Laura Ludwig and Kira Walkenhorst in the gold medal match Wednesday. Walsh Jennings and Ross will play for bronze Wednesday against Brazilians Larissa and Talita, the No. 1 seed. Larissa won a bronze medal in London.
Brazil takes down Kerri Walsh Jennings and April Ross in 2 sets. #BeachVolleyball #Rio2016 pic.twitter.com\/0w3EeUEr5v — NBC Olympics (@NBCOlympics) August 17, 2016
More Olympics:
-- 5 Weirdest Jobs At This Year's Olympics
-- We Never Understood How Great Ryan Lochte Was
-- Watch 15-Year-Old Michael Phelps Predict He'll Win Gold Medals
Follow Jeffrey Eisenband on Twitter @JeffEisenband.

Generated :
Coach Roger Peters brought much needed fuel to Kerri Walsh Jennings’ Olympic campaign when he pulled his daughter in the volleyball semis Tuesday night.
Jennings had broken in the semifinals of volleyball’s China Open two days ago before narrowly losing to Adrienne Clarkson and Rosie DuVal. Phillips and Kerri Walsh Jennings will be back in the semifinals next week.
It will be Roseau coach Zach Ehlers’ first tourney appearance as an Olympic coach.
OK! Exclusive: Kerri Walsh Jennings on What Makes Peace With Her Daughters
Kelly Davenport, Kerri’s mother, served as one of the four bronze medalists at the Beijing Olympics.
But it seems she’s had it rougher.
On Tuesday, the 19-year-old slipped on the court with two hits in the first quarter.
OK! News: Olympic Hoops Critic Calls Kerri Walsh Jennings “Adly Backful” & “Good”
“She tried to get back into it,” Stephen Chipps, Kerri’s coach, said of her first round exit. “But she’s learning and she needs to adapt. I can’t bear to watch her so much sometimes. She’s so that’s what I want.”
OK! Sports: Katerina Sargent Talks Olympic Success, Shocking Workout
It was also revealed that Kelly was never offered a starring role on the Olympic telecast.
OK! News: Who Will Win a Comeback Tony Romo + Romo Take on Twitter?
But fans will want to keep an eye on Kerri’s dad’s career.
OK! News: Kerri Walsh Jennings’s Wish List From After Crash
“When that game came up I didn’t know what to think,” Kerri’s mother said. “He really moved so quickly and accepted me.”
Should Kerri be disappointed with her Olympic loss, in which she will be playing for Cameroon in the women’s under-17 team, or disappointed for herself?
