Title : 12 feared dead after U.S. military aircraft crash in Hawaii

Original :
KAZUHIRO NOGI\/AFP\/Getty Images Two unidentified U.S. military aircraft crashed over Hawaii on Thursday.
Authorities have launched a difficult search for up to 12 survivors Friday in high surf in the Pacific Ocean after two Marine helicopters collided late Thursday off of Hawaii.
Two Sikorsky CH-53E Super Stallion helicopters that carried six people each collided just before midnight Thursday off of Oahu's North Shore about two miles north of Haleiwa Beach, Coast guard officials said.
The helicopters were part of the 1st Marine Aircraft Wing from Hawaii's Marine Corps Base.
Witnesses saw a fireball caused by the collision and responders later found a fire and debris field and an empty life raft in the water below where it occurred, according to U.S. Coast Guard officials.
The initial debris field was a couple of miles offshore but has since moved about eight miles off shore, officials said.
The current search area is about 20 miles and responders are battling unusually high surf with waves reaching 35 to 45 feet.
“That will certainly make our search efforts a little more daunting at this time,” Coast Guard Lt. Scott Carr told Hawaii News Now.
None of the passengers had been identified on Friday afternoon.
With With News Wire Services
lbult@nydailynews.com

Generated :
Hours after an all-terrain jet crashed into forests in Hawaii's Big Island, dozens of relatives gathered Sunday with friends and family to describe what they were watching at sunset, unaware that the plane was buried inside the forest.
Several people were killed and dozens more injured, when the plane, a U.S. Air Force F-18 fighter, crashed Friday night on a remote road in New Zealand's remote Lainia province, authorities said. The pilot was a pilot from a U.S. military helicopter flying over the eastern part of Maui, the district's Director of Public Safety Pat Perez said.
Family members are gathered to hear from loved ones and to talk with colleagues who live near the crash site. A police officer tried to intervene, but witnesses said the pilot disregarded him and apparently felt compelled to get out of the helicopter.
Survivors have since been buried in a huge, new cemetery in Hawaii, where rescue workers have begun to use a makeshift casket to bring relatives of victims to their loved ones' feet.
The pilot kept the airfield open enough to ensure passengers and crew were not abducted, the Hawaii Department of Transportation said in a statement.
In an act of heroism, the pilot repeatedly told other pilots to "man up," but ultimately made the wrong decision, said Capt. Chuck Langer, director of the Civil Air Patrol. He was the only one on the jet when it crashed. The wreckage of the twin-engine plane reached many people when it crashed.
Monday was the normal half-hour road trip to rescue people
"It was a police officer going over, and the pilot of the plane stayed up, kept his tail light turned and turned back," Langer said.
There were also victims at the crash site, some of whom screamed for air support as they died, his spokesman said.
The 73-year-old pilot survived without serious wounds, the Hawaii County Fire Department said.
The pilot was wearing a life jacket, as required by the U.S. Code. Authorities never released the name of the pilot because of the ongoing investigation.
Investigators are expected to interview the pilot, Langer said. The Federal Aviation Administration is investigating the crash.
The pilot initially told officers he had been looking for a place to airlift passengers and aircraft, Hawaii County Fire Chief Lance Lang said.
The crash happened about 10 p.m. Friday evening on a road that connects Waikiki and Siskiyou, a popular setting for many Hawaii vacationers, Langer said. It was the F-18 on its way to a tropical safari.
U.S. Air Force: Three Marines were killed
"There was a Navy F-18, as originally reported,," he said.
A number of Alaska Airlines planes were involved, but no other flights were called in.
The crash of the F-18 was a "disaster" for air traffic control, Langer said.
It is flying far and wide and is designed to fire from different altitudes, he said. It should be flown at six- to seven-feet- tall, and it is capable of flying from airforce headquarters to land in Hawaii, Langer said. The pilot's condition was not known Sunday, he said.
A fly over had an eight-foot-wide drop
Alaska Airlines Flight 2681 was heading back from Alice Island, a family friend said Sunday. Kelly Ryan said he had climbed to his sister's feet shortly before the crash.
"The picture just started coming out the other way," Ryan said. "I was holding in a picture-perfect way."
Capt. John Berning, a captain from Engine 511 stationed at Haiku Naval Air Station, said it seemed like the plane went down steeply.
"I'm in shock right now," Berning said Sunday night. "My brother-in-law, he's an Air Force pilot. It's my brother-in-law that is flying over here today."
A local worker, Makanga Uchino, said she heard someone scream at 3:30 a.m. while hiking.
"They looked at me really, really funny," Uchino said. "I grabbed my grandson and told him to not believe everything he heard."
She and other people were out of contact with their loved ones when the plane came down.
The U.S. military and NASA were investigating the crash, but the military has not revealed what caused it.
