Title : 16 feared dead after hot air balloon crashes in Texas

Original :
DEVELOPING--Sixteen people were feared dead Saturday after a hot air balloon caught on fire and crashed in Central Texas, officials said.
Caldwell County Sheriff Daniel Law said in a statement his office received a 911 call at 7:44 a.m. local time about a possible vehicle accident at a spot near Lockhart, Texas.
He said when emergency responders and deputies arrived on the scene it was apparent that the reported fire was the basket portion of a hot air balloon.
Caldwell County says there are no survivors in hot air balloon incident in Lockhart. pic.twitter.com\/tAmuAIUxy7 — Marcus Officer (@MarcusonFOX7) July 30, 2016
“The Balloon was occupied and it does not appear at this time that there were any survivors of the crash,” the sheriff said. “Investigators are determining the number and the identities of victims at this time.”
The balloon was carrying 16 people, officials said.
Lynn Lunsford with the Federal Aviation Administration said in a statement that the accident happened when the hot air balloon caught fire and crashed into a pasture.
Lunsford said that the FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board are going to the scene to investigate.
Lockhart is about 30 miles south of Austin.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Generated :
The International Space Station air ambulance has landed at the base of the Texas Air National Guard base, where the disaster happened Tuesday afternoon (July 30).
National Guardsmen unharmed after an emergency air ambulance landed at the base of the Texas Air National Guard base (Image credit: Texas Air National Guard)
A 14-foot air ambulance was taking part in a training exercise at the base that day that saw a hot air balloon shoot a hole in the grass before crashing into the base's hilly terrain.
Crews on site watched the shooter calm down while continuing what could have been a chaotic rescue attempt when it went down with a 100-ton oxygen tank stuck above the ground, said Lt. Scott Anderson, spokesman for the station.
"I don't think we lost a single lifter or crew member," Anderson said. "To just imagine what the crew was going through, that's frightening."
With the air ambulance's parachute, a safe launch position, and the power of the air rescue truck, the rocket typically takes about 10 minutes to complete.
KXAN requested an interview from the air force, as well as a telephone interview with the agency.
