Title : Two planes at Newark airport narrowly avoided crash, report says

Original :
Two passenger planes narrowly avoided a mid-air collision at Newark Liberty airport in New Jersey last month, according to a preliminary report from the National Transportation Safety Board.
The two planes came within 400ft vertically and 150ft laterally of each other at 3pm on 24 April, when United Airlines flight 1243, a Boeing 737 arriving from San Francisco, passed over United Express flight 4100 operated by ExpressJet, an Embraer ERJ-145 plane departing to Memphis, Tennessee. The flight numbers and passenger data are not included in the NTSB report but have been cited by CNN.
Neither plane was damaged during the incident.
The report shows that when the Memphis flight was cleared for takeoff, the incoming Boeing 737 was three miles away. But when the Embraer began its takeoff on runway 4R, the San Francisco flight was only a mile from landing on intersecting runway 29.
Realising that the planes were too close, the air traffic controller warned the pilots, instructing the 737 from San Francisco to "go around" – that is, to abort its landing – and for the Embraer to maintain visual contact with it.
About 10 seconds after the 737 was ordered to "go around", a pilot on the Embraer jet told air traffic controllers that the flight crew had "kept the nose down". The pilot said the 737 was "real close", according to an archive recording.
Contacted moments later by air traffic control to confirm takeoff, the Memphis pilot repeated that the 737 was, "real close". The Boeing 737 passed over the ERJ-145 at the intersection of runways 29 and 4R, the NTSB report says.
The report does not say whether the 737 executed the order to go around. It is also unclear why the Embraer did not take off immediately after being cleared to do so.
Contacted by the Guardian, the NTSB declined say whether the 737 carried out the order to abort its landing. Spokesman Eric Weiss said via email that the question "will be answered during the course of the investigation". He added: "This is only the preliminary report."
United Airlines spokesman Christen David said in a statement: "We are working with the NTSB in its review of the incident.”
The Boeing 737 from San Francisco was carrying 160 passengers and six crew members, according to a United Airlines spokesperson. The ERJ-145 to Memphis was carrying 47 passengers and three crew members.

Generated :
ANCHORAGE, Alaska (AP) — Two planes landed safely at Anchorage's John F. Kennedy International Airport after coming under heavy fire shortly after takeoff, putting out powerful winds with the planes nearly identical in size to one jet that lost control amid fog around dawn Wednesday, according to a review by investigators.
"It's one of those lucky hits, you hit a dead airplane and that's what happens," airport spokeswoman Tara Grant told The Associated Press on Thursday. "I think our crews are quite pleased with it."
The 2011 Mercury Comet was meant to make its first flight to the Northeast Coast when it came down on a runway about 40 miles east of Los Angeles and landed safely on the ocean side, Grant said. The Mercury landed in an unpopulated area about 80 miles west of Anchorage.
Kennedy spokeswoman Keli Dorchester said the two planes have their tails parallel to each other. She said passengers on the two planes "were safely and unscathed" during landing because both aircraft had tailpipes instead of a tail, a detail she has not disclosed.
At the rear of the Mercury, there was a narrow line that appeared to block the path of the aircraft, which had a corrugated metal main fuselage, according to the assessment by Paul Witmer, senior team leader for the Alaska Department of Transportation's Glenn Hudson Research Center.
The difference is that the Mercury's tail is wide and nose is bent, according to Witmer, who retired last year to become the department's vice president of government relations.
Dorchester said one of the turboprop planes pulled up as the Mercury was coming down. The wings of the other aircraft stayed flat. She did not know whether the airplane was a twin-engine or two-engine aircraft.
Witmer was able to see both aircraft with what he believed to be a "cloud-like" configuration, he said.
At Laddie Air, Dorchester said one of the planes was about 20 feet (8 meters) long and an average wing height of 33 feet (8 meters).
She said there was a gap between the plane and the gate. Grant said some row passenger jets may have flown with tailpipes instead of tailpipes.
The aircraft apparently caught fire while descending in the fog near the Alaska Spitfire observation post, which had a thick fog draped across the shoreline Wednesday.
Beneath the fog was larger debris.
Dorchester's plane was clear of fog and ran wide enough to get access to the Ogawa Mesa, an overlook on the Kenai Peninsula. That area, which the government receives no funding for, has an airstrip.
Grant said that was the only reason the Mercury didn't catch fire.
Grant said the two planes "were struck by lightning in the vicinity, which is not what we would have predicted."
The aircraft did not sustain serious damage in the fire. Neither of the airplane's engines had been damaged.
Grant said all the pilots on the Mercury did turn in two to three days of training, while on the Corneze-Kelshaerr plane the aircraft survived two to three days without damage, and the plane did not make any progress.
Pilots on the Corneze-Kelshaerr had emergency "aircraft emergency" training simulators, she said.
Authorities should investigate whether the Mercury, which is designed to fly to Alaska, qualified for a similar crash designation as the Corneze-Kelshaerr aircraft when it left Los Angeles, Grant said.
Newark spokeswoman Kiya Tova said a wing registered to Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University suffered severe fire damage and was distributed for testing in early May. Newark spokeswoman Al Abreu said the pilots felt the crash was "unnecessarily dangerous."
Newark lost a Boeing 747 jet last month in a crash in the Gulf of Mexico.
