Title : Mexican Billionaire Tycoon Carlos Slim To Sell Winter Olympic Games Broadcasting Rights To Government TV Channel

Original :
América Móvil (NYSE:AMX), the Mexican telecommunication giant controlled by billionaire tycoon Carlos Slim, has agreed to sell the exclusive rights to broadcast the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Mexico to government-owned television channel Canal 22, the Mexican daily Reforma reported.
Arturo Elías Ayub, Slim’s spokesperson and son-in-law, declined in an e-mail to say how much Canal 22 will pay for the rights, arguing that “it’s a private deal.” Elías didn’t say if the agreement includes the broadcast rights for the 2016 Summer Games, which América Móvil also owns.
Canal 22 is a government-owned cultural TV channel which has a small audience compared to Mexico’s TV duopoly, Televisa and TV Azteca. Details of the agreement will be known on Wednesday, when it is expected to be signed in Mexico City.
“For Slim and América Móvil, it’s clear that the deal is a way to gain access to open TV broadcasting without having to depend on Televisa or TV Azteca. The relationship between Slim and Televisa and TV Azteca fractured in 2011 around the ‘advertising wars,’” said Jenaro Villamil, an expert on Mexican TV and author of several books on Televisa’s relationship with the Mexican government.
In 2011, Slim stopped advertising with Televisa and TV Azteca after a dispute over phone rates and TV advertising rates.
Villamil opined that while in general terms the deal helps Slim and América Móvil, it blurs Canal 22’s original purpose as a cultural and alternative TV channel. ”Canal 22 could now be perceived as a channel that is ‘for rent’ or ‘for sale’ in the future,” he added.
Last March, América Móvil won the exclusive broadcast rights to the winter Olympic Games, which will take place February 7 to 23 in Sochi, Russia, as well as the rights to the 2016 Summer Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, for all of Latin America (with the exception of Brazil). Neither Slim nor the International Olympic Committee revealed at that time the amount that América Móvil paid for the exclusive rights in Latin America, but Mexican analysts estimated it at $110 million dollars. The broadcasting deal gave Slim a foot in the door to try to enter the paid TV market, which he can now do thanks to the Mexican anti-monopoly telecommunication bill approved earlier this year. The law calls for the creation of two new private TV networks in Mexico.
Currently Telmex and Telcel, two of America Móvil’s subsidiaries, dominate the telephone, broadband and paid TV industries in 17 Latin American countries. In March, Elías left open the option of reselling the rights not only in Mexico but in any of those Latin American countries.
The right to offer paid TV, which America Movil has been barred from doing by regulators, has been the subject of one of Slim’s most bitterly contested struggles. Emilio Azcarraga and Ricardo Salinas Pliego, Slim’s billionaire rivals, both own companies—Televisa (NYSE:TV) and TV Azteca respectively—that together broadcast to 100% of Mexican TV audiences.
Slim is the world’s second richest man. Forbes currently pegs his net worth at $68 billion, a drop from Forbes’ $73 billion estimate in March 2013.
Twitter: @DoliaEstevez

Generated :
Biography.news.com
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia: Billionaire tycoon Carlos Slim Ase claims the right to air Olympics coverage rights to the Winter Olympics beginning with the 2014 Games in Sochi, Russia.
Slim announced the sale of 51 percent of the 49.4 million euro ($56 million) to national broadcaster Y1 Global Group for 15.5 million euros in cash on Friday.
The outcome of the deal is expected to be announced in the first quarter of 2014.
“We had long hoped to acquire global rights to the Winter Olympics in Sochi and have now concluded this deal that will ensure the best coverage to our viewers worldwide,” Ase, chairman of the Belarus-based Skymedia Alatitt, said in a statement.
“This is a vital signal for the future of the Olympic Games in Sochi."
Worldwide Olympic rights typically cost 10.25 billion euros.
Y1 Global (Group) also purchased stakes in National Geographic Network and Radio Star, but the latter both reversed plans to sell rights to the Winter Olympics.
The sale gave Y1 Global a 38 percent stake in 38 percent of Y1 Group, which covers about 732 cities and 106 sporting venues around the world.
The winning bidder will also get an 18 percent stake in Y1 Global and a 20 percent equity stake in 100 percent of Ase’s Turkish bet fund.
Russia’s attempt to prevent its Winter Olympic bid from running afoul of international accords with global giants has enraged Russian sporting fans.
Aleksandr Prudasov, founder of Trendan, a sports newspaper, told AFP that international sports bodies had jumped the gun to prevent the state-owned broadcasters from bringing in Russian national papers in a deal deemed illegal and unsavory.
“Instead of setting up these national newspapers, the strategic companies will run the same papers,” he said.
“The promoters wanted to sign a total of 58 sports federations in 10 cities and two sports associations,” Prudasov added.
Among athletes who face criminal trials before the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, transport network Railways of Russia and two Olympic sponsors, Aydin (Kudil) and the Istanbul Operatic Club, the three-time gold medalists in the women’s race won over 1,500 tickets apiece.
(AFP)
