Title : Olympic God Michael Phelps Ends Retirement. Is Rio 2016 in Sight?

Original :
Joining the ranks of Michael Jordan, Brett Favre and other superstar athletes who retired from their respective sports and then reversed those decisions, Olympic swimmer Michael Phelps is hopping back in the pool, prompting speculation that he's eyeing another Olympic appearance at the 2016 Summer Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Phelps, 28, will compete at the Arena Grand Prix in Mesa, Ariz., from April 24-26, his coach told the Associated Press on Monday. This will be his first time competing since the 2012 Olympics.
See also: Michael Phelps at 15 Proves Even Olympians Have an Awkward Stage
Phelps won four gold medals and two silver medals at the London Games in 2012 and a record eight gold medals at the Beijing games in 2008. (Overall, he has earned 22 Olympic medals, 18 of them gold, in his career.) Phelps retired after the 2012 Games, saying he didn't want to continue as a professional swimmer into his 30s.
But Phelps' coach, Bob Bowman, said on Monday that the superstar has been training with his team at the North Baltimore Aquatic Club for five days a week.
"He's gotten back into good shape since September," Bowman told the AP. "He can give a good effort and certainly not be embarrassed. He's in enough shape to swim competitively."
Phelps himself had remained mum on the subject, both to reporters and on social media, at time of writing.
Officially ending his retirement would be Phelps' logical first step if he wants to compete in Rio in 2016, or get back into competing internationally at all. But Bowman told the AP that such speculation is premature. Phelps would still need to progress through several steps to qualify for the 2016 Olympics.
Bowman said Phelps' participation in the U.S. National Championships this August — where swimmers will compete to represent the U.S. at the 2015 world championships — will depend on his early races.
"I wouldn't say it's 100% on the radar," Bowman said of the U.S. National Championships. "After Mesa, we're going to sit down and talk about it."
With the thirst for greatness Phelps has shown since he was a teenager, though, it's hard to imaging the Olympic god is simply testing these waters.
20 Gold Medal Winners From the 2014 Paralympics
Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.

Generated :
Congratulations go to Michael Phelps! According to the Associated Press, the 2008 Olympian announced that he’s retiring from competitive swimming in August 2016. However, the hope is that 2016 could not be delayed yet, and the time will come when he’ll get through all the controversy. Phelps had been hitting the water like he had no time to call the retired-off-his-nest-before-he-and-no-weeks before retirement in 2013. But wait, there’s more:
“The concern is: How many more years of less than five can you think of coming. That’s such a great thing to be with your family, and it’s a fitting way for this to end,” Phelps said Friday in an interview with reporters at his home in El Dorado, Calif. “I’ve really enjoyed all the time I’ve had with that family, and I’m putting it aside for the time being to focus on Rio.”
The last time Phelps faced news of his retirement was in 2009, when he served two years of his sentence for marijuana possession after a well-publicized trial in military court. Upon his return from a stint at elite recreation centers, Phelps took to Twitter to say that the experience was “amazing.”
Throughout his 20 years in the sport, Phelps was famous for attacking the rich, the poor, and the world of sport with his sunglasses and wigs. However, during his heyday at elite programs like the 2009 U.S. Open, it seemed the tradition of his “gladiator aura” would be wearing off. Many athletes soon discovered this behavior and the promotional wars between Phelps and rival X-Men, leaving him the only athlete to have a fierce rivalry.
During the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, he was not only undisputed gold medalist, but also — you guessed it — a prominent media personality in British Columbia. He even rallied the downtrodden athletes out of a desperate attempt to get back on track. “Fans had to stay ‘broken’, and by the time I reached Los Angeles, I had achieved not only the stature of a professional sports figure but ‘iconic,’ a name that is a symbol of my professional accomplishments for so many years,” Phelps said.
At the 2008 Olympic games, Phelps called the atmosphere in the arena “crazy.” “At halftime I’d say ‘This is what we’re doing, this is the hardest part. We’re going to win, and this is it, I’m excited,'” he said.
It seems a change of scenery could certainly help Phelps weather the turbulence that could come with retirement. Following his time in the water, Phelps hopes to relax and not get caught up in all the negativity from his detractors. What do you think is going to happen to Phelps in Rio?
[Photo via Facebook]
