Title : World War 3 would be ‘extremely lethal and fast’ US Army chiefs reveal

Original :
Military bosses were taking part in a ‘future-of-the-Army’ panel in Washington
Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
AMERICAN military bosses have confessed that World War 3 is “almost guaranteed” and will be “extremely lethal and fast.”
Speaking at a ‘future-of-the-Army’ panel at the Association of the U.S. Army in Washington, generals and other leading figures laid out their depressing forecasts for upcoming conflicts.
Alamy 3 Military bosses have warned against the threat of Russia and China
Smart weapons and artificial intelligence will dominate these ultra-violent wars between super-aggressive nation states.
According to a report by Defense One, Major General William Hix said: “A conventional conflict in the near future will be extremely lethal and fast, and we will not own the stopwatch.
“The speed of events are likely to strain our human abilities.
RELATED STORIES 'WE'LL DESTROY YOU' US Army chief fires terrifying threat to Russia over Syria and warns: 'We'll beat you anywhere, anytime' APOCALYPSE NOW (ISH) Is Russia preparing for nuclear war and what would happen if Putin launched a nuke? 'UNQUESTIONABLY A WAR CRIME' Vladimir Putin is slaughtering innocent civilians in Syria on purpose, claims Boris Johnson 'BARBARIC ATTACK' Putin's warplanes are accused of dropping NAPALM in Syria - as Boris Johnson claims Russia could be guilty of war crimes WILL ASSANGE SINK CLINTON? Julian Assange to release of info about Hillary Clinton that 'will swing US election for Trump' KIM BOMB-UN North Korea warns UN it is preparing for 'nuclear war' with the US over tensions with the South KIM SLOW-UN North Korean tyrant orders motorists to slow to 3mph when passing giant statutes of his father and grandad HAPPY NUKE YEAR North Korea to stick two fingers up to West with new nuke launch before 'end of year' Kim-edy gold! Oddball TV show from North Korea's tyrannical regime shows actors mocking President Obama's shock at nuke test
“The speed at which machines can make decisions in the far future is likely to challenge our ability to cope, demanding a new relationship between man and machine.”
Hix warned that the US is preparing for “violence on the scale that the U.S. Army has not seen since Korea” when over 30,000 American troops were slaughtered.
The General said that China and Russia are both developing huge militaries which are driven by new technologies.
Lt. General Joseph Anderson said America faces frightening threats “modern nation-states acting aggressively in militarised competition.”
He said: “Who does that sound like? Russia?”
Army Chief of Staff General Mark A. Milley added that war between nation states “is almost guaranteed”.
Miley warned that America’s enemies could end their superiority in the air which it has enjoyed since the Korean War in 1950 and stop its Naval forces through a mixture of anti-access and area-denial capabilities.
Getty Images 3 Future conflicts between nation states will be “extremely lethal and fast”
Getty Images 3 Amry chiefs warned the US is preparing for conflicts on the scale of the Korean War
He said: “Land forces will have to enable sea forces.
“(The Army) is definitely going to have to dominate the air above our battle space.”
The strikingly honest military chief said America must prepare for advanced cyber warfare and fight guerrilla-style in complex urban settings.
Miley also cited a strengthened Russia, an increasingly dominate China, expanding smaller nation states and climate change as factors which could lead to instability.
He said: “While we’re ready now, we are being challenged.
“Our Army and our nation must be ready.”
Speaking about future weapons, Katharina McFarland, acting assistant Army secretary for acquisition, logistics, and technology, revealed plans to make tanks and other military machines user-friendly.
Addressing the soldiers and other military personnel in the room, she said: “You travel all over the world, don’t you?
“You can pretty much get in a car anywhere and drive it.
“As an engineer, I think in terms of a simple interface — no matter what helicopter, you can get in and operate it.”
US Army General Mark Milley sends fiery warning to Russia
We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368

Generated :
The US Army has been taught just how to train to fight and how to repel from a distance and they all share a significant similarities.
“We have launched several phases of the fight,” General Lloyd Austin, who was appointed to lead the Army this week, told the Commons today (1 Oct).
“From the first train in France to the last stage of our training our troops receive from the Army, I’m convinced there are unquestionably very distinct and enduring themes in what the Army is about.”
Here is a complete breakdown of the four combat scenarios around the Commonwealth of George Washington’s most prominent battle.
1. Fighting a ‘fable’
The battle scenes in The Hunger Games trilogy begin in 1862. You will see a group of characters being awakened by a voice urging them to fight a loser through the ranks before changing course and choosing a mate or nanny to take over the capital city.
The slogan of ‘Fairytale of Three Cities’ plays over the lines: “There is no better revenge than a city feeling safe, secure and courageous”.
“We will do our utmost to protect this city from bad guys looking to knock it out of the park. It is a powerful message that is vital to the effectiveness of the whole campaign.
“There are rules to avoid being affected by defeat. If you can’t protect yourself from various calamities, then risk playing the victim in an unintended quagmire by being bad losers.”
But the attacks have the last word. With buildings from the earliest days of the war submerged in grubby shells, cadets soldier the Knights of the Monastery, a cherished home of stoners and revolutionaries, in pursuit of an elusive two-faced disciple, the true leader of The Hunger Games.
Jedid, a student soldier on the beach at No1 Hastings, prepares for his training: “I am a trained war soldier. “If it isn’t served it is technically worthless.”
3. Blending three together
From a commanding officer ‘fighting a hulking army all over the world’ to an army ‘for the people’, a nation of green warriors in miniature are crossed to a village of brown hills are set upon by army lawnmowers at high speed.
The war begins in the farmhouse of the powerful Army chaplain, Lieutenant Colonel Keith Noble, who leads the ranks of soldiers sent by the American troops, in 1947.
From there a pitch dark comedy follows the great bitter exploits of two brothers, two brilliant mates, the fearsome General Muhammad Faheem and the brutal, 11th Century Chief of Staff at Time Soldier.
Each battle in ‘The Hunger Games’ is called ‘My Land’ and each day the troops, uniformed, on the ground, work to keep this nation together. The leader, General Darwin, recounts to a legion of heroes: “The camp. The town. The whole country. The cow. The mountain. And the struggle of the Army, to insure peace and protect the nation’.”
Nevertheless they are divided as comrades’ battles are fought. Colonel Noble carries a pin that reads ‘Fighting for the national, one man, one hundred and eighteen centigrade’.
There is also the ghostly looking Lieutenant Colonel Burn, abandoned in Chappaqua in the 1950s. He eventually turned up to lead the largest army action of its kind in Europe, from the Torabe North America to China.
Finally comes the Citadel commander in 21st Century who first fought in Chappaqua where he grew up.
The drill ran from 1895 to 1936. Guards were sent to battle the British at the Battle of Sufi Fort in Co.4m Fufnaghi and fi br, which arrived in 1840.
“My battlefield: A battle that we have been trained to forget, at the first sign of danger,” Lieutenant Colonel Michael Shavers told an audience with his brave hero.
