Title : Shopping with smartphones: Apple’s iOS users outspent Android by 5X on Christmas

Original :
An IBM analytics report found that as a percentage of online sales on Christmas Day, people using iOS devices bought more items with their smartphones than those with Android by 5-to-1.
Based on transactions from about 800 U.S. retail websites, IBM’s report found that purchases made from iOS devices made up 23 percent of online shopping done on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Android accounted for just 4.6 percent.
iOS users also spent nearly twice as much, with an average of $93.94 per order, compared to $48.10 for Android.
Overall, IBM found that phone and tablet shopping made up 48 percent of all online traffic, up 28 percent from last year. Consumers also tended to use their smartphone more often than tablets to browse for products, but when it came time to actually make a purchase, people used tablets over smartphones (19.4 percent vs. 9.3 percent).
This data is interesting in part because Android has regularly led Apple in terms of market share over the past few years. IBM’s numbers, however, indicate that Apple users seem to be spending a whole lot more with their devices. IBM released a similar report during Black Friday, noting iOS users spending more than Android.
Related stories:

Generated :
At least one in six Android customers have downloaded a smartphone or tablet from the Apple Store within the last three days.
According to a survey of 55-year-old iPhone users, which also found 8,263 users download a smartphone or tablet on Christmas Day, the Santa Claus purchase accounted for 54 per cent of all purchases, which was up from 46 per cent on Christmas Day last year.
Additionally, 94 per cent of Android users were also not using their smart device on Christmas Day.
The survey was conducted by Experian Market Analysis, designed to measure the demographics of consumers, and entitled, “Apple iPhone Users: Our Study of Wholesale Market Share”.
This could be because the general consensus among mobile users is that most consumers like Apple’s device and are still not willing to buy other phone makers.
On top of the smartphones, iPhone users accounted for 89 per cent of mobile-only shopping, with Android accounting for 47 per cent.
Overall, 81 per cent of Android users bought a smartphone and 26 per cent of the Android users were not purchasing the phone on Christmas day.
However, Apple’s Android customers enjoyed an average of 32 per cent of all consumer purchases on the day, which was up from 29 per cent on Christmas Day last year.
