Title : When was the MH17 plane crash, how many people died and has Malaysia Airlines recovered?

Original :
Find out the facts behind the crash which took place in July 2014
When was the MH17 plane crash, how many people died and has Malaysia Airlines recovered?
FLIGHT MH17 was en route from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur was shot down over Ukraine.
A total of 298 people, including 80 children, died when it broke apart in mid-air flying from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur in July 2014.
Reuters 6 There were 283 passengers, including 80 children, and 15 crew members on board MH17 which crashed in October 2015
Reuters 6 A Malaysian air crash investigator inspects the crash site in Ukraine
A 15-month investigation by the Dutch Safety Board into the Boeing 777-200ER revealed the aircraft had crashed after being hit by a Russian-made Buk missile over eastern Ukraine.
Dutch air investigators concluded that the plane left Amsterdam’s Schiphol Airport at 12:31 local time on July 17 and was due to arrive at Kuala Lumpur International Airport at 06:10.
The board also confirmed the plane lost contact with air traffic control at 13:20 GMT, when it was about 50km from the Russia-Ukraine border.
AP:Associated Press 6 Thehe Joint Investigation Team (JIT) announced the missile did come from Russia
Getty Images 6 The JIT was a two-year probe which was led by the Dutch and was made up of police from a number of countries
Today, the Joint Investigation Team (JIT) made up of police officers from Australia, Holland, Belgium, Malaysia and the Ukraine presented the first findings of the two-year Dutch-led probe.
The group concluded the missile did come from Russia and was fired from territory held by Moscow-backed rebels.
Reuters 6 It has been reported that Malaysian Airline has ‘struggled’ since the shooting down of flight MH17
Reuters 6 A woman walks past wreckage at the crash site in October 2015
In September, Malaysian Airlines reported a decline in passenger loads.
Channel News Asia claimed the airline has ‘struggled’ since shooting down of flight MH17 over eastern Ukraine and when flight MH370 went missing in March.
Chief executive officer Peter Bellew, who assumed his role in July, said competition domestically and globally is ‘intense and is likely to intensify in the second half of the year’.
He also said ‘the airline will increase marketing and sales initiatives and be strict on costs in the second half of 2016’.

Generated :
Two Australians are among those killed by an Air Malaysia plane which crashed into the tarmac of an airport in eastern Ukraine. Officials are still not yet able to say if one of the bodies is the one being identified.
The cause of the disaster remains uncertain, but "with unknown cause this tragedy was caused by a disaster in the airspace of the Republic of Donetsk and Donetsk People's Republic," an AP news agency source said. "Who is responsible for this dreadful crash?"
The "regional disaster association of the Donetsk People's Republic and the other 21 stations of the Donetsk People's Republic of eastern Ukraine" is due to release a statement saying victims are being taken in and where they will be sent.
"As soon as the bodies are brought in, and this will be done over the next few days, the office of the airline executive authority will declare them all as civilians," the group said.
Australian Federal Police are leading the investigation of the crash.
The plane was carrying 88 passengers and crew from Dnipropetrovsk in eastern Ukraine, where the same separatists were allied with the government in Kiev in 2014.
The crash would not be the first time the insurgents claimed responsibility for an air crash, which the Ukrainian police did not confirm at the time.
WATCH: A teenager fighting in Ukraine’s Donetsk region says: ‘This is the reason why I’m alive and I love my country’
An airport at Donetsk, located in the heart of the separatist-controlled region of Donetsk, was closed down to traffic during the crash.
Authorities did not say if an air ambulance had been summoned from the crash site.
The Ukrainian government quickly declared a national day of mourning, bringing down red and orange flags and mass flags, and carrying out a rescue operation.
British Prime Minister Theresa May said "it is likely that there are survivors" who have been identified but insisted there were likely too many dead to be 100 per cent verified.
Only the bodies of those on board have been sent back to the Dutch Embassy for burial, officials said.
The victims were all Dutch nationals.
An eight-member team from the Netherlands-based International Transport Safety Agency is on the ground investigating the crash. The location where the plane was shot down has not been officially confirmed by authorities, and authorities' names and regional names have yet to be published.
A spokesman from the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that it was not yet clear if any of the crew members of the MH17 plane are Dutch.
Dutch President Jens Stoltenberg has said a "cooperation pact" has been reached with the Ukrainian government to speed up the recovery process.
