Title : Guardian and Observer tablet edition now available on Android

Original :
Our successful Guardian and Observer tablet edition is now available to Android tablet users, including those on Kindle Fire. The edition, which optimises content from the Guardian and Observer newspapers for tablets, launched on iPad in October 2011 and now has over 23,000 subscribers.
The Android version includes the following content and functionality:
new editions every day of the week, including all content from the main sections of the Guardian and Observer newspapers
on Saturday, Weekend magazine, the Guide and the Sport, cultural Review, Travel and Family sections are all included along with the main section of the paper
on Sunday, the Observer's news sections, Sport, New Review and Magazine all appear weekly, with Observer Food and Tech Monthly magazines included once each month
quick and cryptic crosswords every day of the week, including Saturday's Prize puzzle and the Everyman and Speedy crosswords on Sunday
all editions from the last month available in the archive
all article and picture content can be read offline
stunning photojournalism and full screen cartoons
in-article image galleries and interactive graphics
video embedded in articles viewable when online
share stories via Facebook, Twitter, Instapaper, Google+ and email
swipe to navigate between sections or stories
A two-week free trial of the Guardian and Observer tablet edition is available from Google Play and Amazon now. After the free trial, the app is priced at £11.99 per month for seven day access, £9.99 per month for six day (Monday to Saturday) and £6.99 per month for Sunday (Observer only). It is also included in our print + digital bundles, available from our subscriptions site.
Guardian quick crossword in the tablet edition
We are also delighted to announce that the iPad version of the tablet edition now contains quick and cryptic crosswords every day, including the Prize crossword on Saturday and the Observer speedy and Everyman puzzles on Sunday. The crosswords are fully interactive, available on and offline, and have check and cheat functionality (except for Saturday’s Prize puzzle!).
Observer Food Monthly in the tablet edition
We also now include the Observer Food Monthly magazine in the tablet edition, which is a fantastic addition to Sunday’s Observer. The supplement contains original recipes from Nigel Slater and other top chefs, features and regular food and wine columns and appears one Sunday each month.
Check out the 8th December Christmas special to see the first tablet edition of OFM and look out for the next one on 19th January.
If you have any thoughts or questions about the tablet edition, please leave a comment below or email userhelp@theguardian.com.

Generated :
The Guardian and Observer tablet editions were launched in Britain in September and are now coming to some of the most popular tablet platforms, including the iPad.
The tablet editions were two small USB dongles and a swoosh of a display. In essence, these would provide a communications device for the travelling public. Unfortunately, they are limited to their current edition, which is currently not available online. The refurbished edition does include a keyboard, but according to the reseller, it doesn’t work on smartphones or tablets.
One of the complaints I have had from my work colleagues is that they don’t really have a tablet keyboard. This sort of problem has been talked about in daily newspapers, too, but it isn’t something you can download or log on to on the iPad.
Having a T-Mobile iPad out for the first time on a day off and I’m not surprised. It was a small compromise between lots of your tablet-owning and never-endingly trying device. What I find much more convincing is that the guide itself is very sturdy.
Much like one of the Kindle gifts, and again as a result, you can’t get another one of the tablet editions online. However, via the back-end Google app, you can access all the details on the editions via the main menu.
Unlike the kind of unaltered, glossy experience some people get from their tablet editions, this model is a touchscreen, which has been enhanced with a full hex-to-telescoping interface. There are also touch-sensitive buttons on the very top and bottom of the cover to control the apps, the camera and battery life.
Once you install the app, you can either boot up your tablet and start the app, or you can just run into the same windows anywhere on your slate. This is still pretty tough if you have the tablet on hand with an NFC port, but that is relatively easy for most people.
While the front-facing camera is a good thing, you’ll need to be in a hurry with the Toshiba E-Gizmo below. If you’re doing any other heavy duty work on the iPad, you’ll probably need a separate pad for this particular device. It is super thin so you will only need to pop it in half or twice during each use, so it isn’t quite as heavy as the iPad, but it is definitely worth putting in half or twice an hour.
The available device options on the home page are provided for a deposit of £8.99, after a £10 delivery charge. For a start, you can also only purchase it from the Guardian on a subscription basis, but for some reason it is included in the first two days of availability.
The home page is your newspaper for now, but we will update if we hear back.
