Title : Apple takes smartphone market share from Android thanks to strong iPhone sales

Original :
Apple’s strong sales of iPhones during the fourth quarter of 2014 gave the company a greater piece of the worldwide smartphone market, according to new figures released today by IDC. The Cupertino-based company sold 74.5 million iPhones during the quarter, which translates into 19.7 percent of the worldwide smartphone market. That’s up from 17.5 percent during the same period a year ago.
Android sales totaled 289.1 million worldwide, up 26.6 percent from the same period a year ago. But Google’s market share shrank by 1.6 percentage points to 76.6 percent of the total smartphone market. Windows Phone sales grew slightly from 8.8 million units in the fourth quarter of 2013 to 10.7 million units during the same period in 2014, but Microsoft’s overall share shrank from 3 percent of the market to 2.8 percent of the market.
The worldwide smartphone market is increasingly looking like a two-horse race between Apple and Google, with little room for other platform operators. Smartphones running iOS or Android made up 96.3 percent of the total smartphone market during the full year 2014. Microsoft is the closest competitor to the two titans with only 2.7 percent of the full year market share.
As usual, BlackBerry is the big loser in all of this, with just 0.4 percent of the worldwide smartphone market in the full year 2014. The company’s annual sales dropped almost 70 percent over 2013 to just 5.8 million units, less than 17 percent of Microsoft’s total sales for the year.

Generated :
Apple has claimed to be the first company to put the entire smartphone market on its mobile devices and lead the way for the most part. For manufacturers like HTC, Samsung and LG, the comparison is very different — Apple devices dominated the market and the Android market has also exceeded some of its competitors.
The chart below shows smartphone market share, which comes out in the second week of the month for devices released in the month of February. The third week of February consists of Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 820 vs. its Snapdragon 845. The chart shows the mobile industry’s share of the entire smartphone market.
The chart below shows smartphone market share, which comes out in the second week of the month for devices released in the month of February. The third week of February consists of Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 820 vs. its Snapdragon 845.
The chart below shows smartphone market share, which comes out in the second week of the month for devices released in the month of February. The third week of February consists of Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 820 vs. its Snapdragon 845.
The chart below shows smartphone market share, which comes out in the second week of the month for devices released in the month of February. The third week of February consists of Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 820 vs. its Snapdragon 845.
Samsung
Although the competition isn’t directly comparable, Apple smartphone numbers seem to be the prevailing trend in the market today and Samsung won’t face the same challenges for years to come, despite its relative being much more competitive. There may be only so many days before such competition is supposed to hit yet again, but rather than wait, let’s look at some of the other competitive threats we might encounter as we move into March.
In terms of smartphones, if you took the average monthly smartphone growth, you’d have seen smartphones becoming an absolute necessity. Currently the Android market is the market share leader, but Apple seems to have done everything right to capture more of the market share during the last few weeks of the month. Galaxy S7 proved that something very powerful could be good for Samsung as well as Android, so there are many other device vendors pushing out products that are solid candidates to compete against Apple and Google.
