Title : Mexico's Peña Nieto says that alleged army massacre will be fully investigated

Original :
Mexico President Enrique Peña Nieto said Monday that all questions about an army killing of 22 people that a witness said was a massacre will be answered by an attorney general's investigation.
"The attorney general is digging into the investigation and will be the agency responding to this issue," Peña Nieto told The Associated Press after participating in an economic forum. He is in New York to attend the U.N. General Assembly meeting.
An AP reporter started to ask Peña Nieto for his reaction to two AP stories revealing doubts about the army's version of the June 30 killings in southern rural Mexico, but he interrupted, saying, "I already know what your question is."
The witness told the AP that soldiers killed 20 men and her 15-year-old daughter after they had surrendered following a confrontation in an abandoned warehouse in the town of San Pedro Limón. She said her daughter and another boy were shot to death as they lay wounded after the groups exchanged fire. The 20 inside had walked out with their hands on the back of their necks, she said. She did not want to be identified for fear of reprisals.
She was at the warehouse trying to retrieve her daughter from the gang when the army came upon them in the early morning and started firing.
The army said soldiers came under fire from a gang of armed men at a grain warehouse and returned fire in self-defense. They said 21 men and one woman died in a firefight, and three kidnap victims were rescued unharmed. The witness, one of the army's "kidnap victims," said she was not kidnapped.
The army's version came under question even before the witness came forward because the toll was so lopsided. Only one soldier was wounded. The AP visited the site after the shootout and found stray bullet marks and no signs of a massive shootout. Instead, at least five spots along the warehouse's inside walls showed the same pattern: One or two closely placed bullet pocks, surrounded by a mass of spattered blood, giving the appearance that some of those killed had been standing against the wall and shot at about chest level.
Peña Nieto spoke four days after the attorney general said the confrontation is under investigation. Mexico's National Commission on Human Rights said it has seen the autopsies and is conducting its own investigation.
The U.S. State Department urged Mexico on Friday to investigate the case, saying it is "imperative that there is a credible review of the circumstances."
Follow us on twitter.com\/foxnewslatino
Like us at facebook.com\/foxnewslatino

Generated :
SAN JUAN, Mexico (AP) - Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto on Tuesday vowed to investigate the allegations against the country's largest armed forces, saying they will be fully investigated.
A bomb could be seen rolling from a machine gun pointed directly at Pena Nieto as he left a security compound near the border with El Paso, Texas, in an attack early Monday.
Saturday's bombing, which wounded 17 soldiers, involved officials who had conducted an inspection of an allegedly de-activated military helicopter.
In a speech on the floor of a Mexico Congress house, Pena Nieto repeated criticisms made against the military during the last year of his term.
Last month, Pena Nieto delivered a scathing defense of the military, saying it was violating constitutional rights by using its helicopters while pursuing anti-government politicians and its allies in last year's presidential election.
The previous president, Felipe Calderon, had promised to step up security for the nation while at the helm of the Interior Department, overseeing the drug war.
Pena Nieto's comments show that he hasn't spent much time in the military.
The United States has a substantial lead over Mexico in military leadership.
But that could change, given that Pena Nieto's government has joined the Mexican military in recent months to patrol its borders with Nicaragua, Central America and Colombia.
Prosecutors say several dozen paramilitary soldiers belonging to the government-linked Leyte Tigers, an indigenous organization, were involved in two or more bombings on the Amazon riverbed, including a span of 18 hours on Saturday night that killed 19 soldiers and injured 16 others.
An attack on a major border gate in the mountains of the northwestern state of Veracruz, by a truck laden with weapons, turned the town of Orinda into a festival. But no home was burned. Instead, gunfire is heard as a guest lounge features a row of hotel rooms offering a safari massage table for $1,000.
Related Content Mexico: Security video reveals deadly robbery after ramming into police
Pena Nieto's spokeswoman, Stephanie Grisanti, said the president was not aware of the allegations. However, she has said that any attack against the military would trigger an investigation into the bombing in Mexico.
Pena Nieto, an avid hunter, and co-founder of Aerocompat FC, a prominent Mexico City firm that ran a travel business with a name that disappeared days before Pena Nieto's 2007 inauguration, was elected president on a promise to restore stability and implement reforms to reduce security forces' tendency to use deadly force.
On the second day of his tenure, he announced a $28 billion effort to rebuild Mexico's national health system. It also includes financing to create a medical academy in southern Mexico and to secure 12 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Peña Nieto, who vowed to prosecute the suspected agents who attacked the helicopter, said the allegations are based on two failed attempts to assassinate him and agree to halt what he called an "inhuman" act.
What appears to be the most credible allegation, according to reports, is that soldiers were present in the car of the suspected bombing suspect's brother.
