Title : Startup Spotlight: CareCap lets healthcare providers offer flexible payment plans to patients

Original :
In his years helping companies get out of financial distress, Nevil Hermer observed a trend. Healthcare deductibles were increasing and employees in need of care were becoming more and more squeezed for money.
“Given my background in HR, which has included managing healthcare insurance for every business I’ve been with, I saw the opportunity quickly,” he said. “Understanding the reasons behind the increasing deductibles and recognizing that the patient-responsible portion for healthcare was going to continue to grow, we figured there was an opportunity to build CareCap.”
CareCap’s platform lets businesses and healthcare providers design payment plans for customers and patients that can’t afford the cost upfront. The startup leverages relationships between patients and providers to create plans that banks might not offer. CareCap tries to attract businesses by touting the customer loyalty and retention that comes from offering payment options.
We caught up with Hermer for this Startup Spotlight, a regular GeekWire feature.
Explain what you do so our parents can understand it: “When you visit the doctor and he tells you your deductible and co-pay requires that you pay him $1,000, ask him if he offers CareCap. With CareCap, he can let you pay in affordable monthly payments that you set to meet your budget.”
Inspiration hit us when: “We realized that the merchant is the answer to payment assistance much as banks were some years back and credit cards were more recently — until they tightened their underwriting criteria. Merchants — specifically service providers — will build on the relationships they have with their customers and help them afford the services they need. They know them and our experience is that those merchants who offer payment plans to their customers have seen an increase in revenue and a reduction in bad debt.”
VC, Angel or Bootstrap: “We wanted to prove the model before we asked for funding from friends and family – we respect them too much not to test as much as we could first. So, we bootstrapped initially. We currently use angels, but the demand for our solution is so great, institutional capital is needed to scale the company.”
Our ‘secret sauce’ is: “The fact that while we help people afford the care they need, what we are really doing is building loyalty. Patients really appreciate that the doctor is helping them get the treatment they need and they not only come back, but they also tell their friends and family. ‘Care Matters!'”
The smartest move we’ve made so far: “Hiring smart, committed, passionate people who care about the people they are serving: our customers.”
The biggest mistake we’ve made so far: “Waiting too long to bring on our PR consultant. We have a great story, we needed to get this out sooner.”
Would you rather have Gates, Zuckerberg or Bezos in your corner: “These are all smart and obviously very successful people. We’d be happy to have any one of them – or all three! Mr. Bezos does what we do — connecting merchants with consumers — and he would get the value proposition very quickly.”
Our favorite team-building activity is: “Ringing the bell to celebrate a win. This generates positive energy and makes us all want to do more.”
The biggest thing we look for when hiring is: “Cultural fit. Of course we need driven, intelligent and caring people, but they need to want to see the whole team succeed. Team is important; so is respect. We look for team members who will contribute to the current positive working environment.”
What’s the one piece of advice you’d give to other entrepreneurs just starting out: “Three things we all learn from experience: Change happens. It will take twice as long as your best estimate. You will need more money than you think.”

Generated :
HARRY BILLAS
Tenant CareCap is expanding its offering of flexible payment plans to healthcare providers around the world. In its first two-month inaugural expansion, CareCap has expanded to six other countries.
In New York City, CareCap is seeing a solid surge in investment from local healthcare providers and is expanding for its first deal out of London. In November, CareCap launched a $1.5 million fund to provide retail locations for CareCap’s healthcare offerings. It raised about $12 million in the United States with $6 million committed to the latest funding round.
So why is CareCap looking at expanding internationally? “I’ve always had a goal to be within Asia, so we wanted to be closer to the people,” said Richard Wilson, the company’s CEO. “When you pay with a credit card, you just put your money on the table and have to pay for a policy.” The business is already a contender in Japan and America, where providers offering flexible payment plans to their patients are growing. In the United States, CareCap provides a platform for certified healthcare practitioners to use to facilitate flexible payment plans on behalf of healthcare providers. The company recently launched “Friends” cards for healthcare providers and the healthcare system itself.
As a result of launching in Asia, CareCap was able to win regulatory approval for services that contain a feature of traditional plans for cardholders. While some colleagues had previously considered including a small discount in the CareCap financials, Wilson says CareCap’s services were more patient-centric — leveraging existing resources to offer clients lower fees.
“When you evaluate a business — a big one for CareCap, and a small one for us — we want to make sure we understand that,” Wilson said. “This gives us the ability to make sure that the availability of higher quality providers means that the plans are available to patients in good faith, good quality care, and affordable.”
CareCap’s biggest backers include the Andreessen Horowitz “investment arm”. The duo funded CareCap with angel investors including Alan Jacobs and Erik Larson.
Larson says CareCap works with various providers in different countries in the health sector. For the vast majority of CareCap patients — doctors, nurses, and dentists — patients are thinking of signing up for a policy that varies depending on their circumstances, such as getting educated, which CareCap allows, and how many cards have to be used.
“It’s a great example of how we believe we can help you set up a flexible payment plan in an industry that didn’t exist before,” Larson said.
CareCap has also launched a network of advocates to raise awareness of the rising costs of health care and the technology that can make it possible for people to enroll in care from anywhere and get it delivered. To date, the company has had a 12,000-member network, with 18,000 members in Asia.
“The next key challenge is making sure that the tools used in a real world workforce don’t choke the economy,” said Wilson. “Increasing knowledge is a huge value that we bring to the table.”
Bitter markets: Health startup CareCap has been criticized in recent months by businesses ranging from Pets.com to BigBroSoda to Abellia BodyRental in the United States and India for failing to capitalize on the changing health market. In the past week, the startup has been hammered by a public relations challenge from the Family Friendly Magazine, which claimed it caused needless stress on employees. The magazine also questioned whether CareCap was meant to create a more competitive environment, arguing that it was “unlikely to lead to a better customer experience.”
Wilson admits the company has been exposed to hard times, but he’s been on it since the start. “I’ve been seeing it because I see how people are used to working in markets that aren’t necessarily tough,” he said. “It’s pretty much the switch from the last year to the present.”
