Title : Apple plans Oct. 4th unveiling of the iPhone 5 even as more Americans buy Android devices

Original :
Apple today pretty much confirmed that it plans to announce the iPhone 5 at a press event on October 4th, with a full release coming shortly thereafter. But as iOS fanatics get ready for the latest version of the smartphone, here are some interesting numbers to contemplate.
New research from Nielsen indicates that 56 percent of Americans who purchased a smartphone in the past three months chose an Android. That compares to 28 percent who purchased an iPhone and nine percent who chose BlackBerry. (I assume Windows Phone showed up in the “other” category).
Now, Apple fans will be quick to point out that many possible iPhone buyers have held off purchase decisions in recent months in anticipation of the new iPhone 5. And the researchers at Nielsen also recognize this trend. They write:
Apple iOS remains popular in second place with 28 percent of all smartphone users, and the same percentage among those who recently got a new device. But those figures could change quickly in the months to come. Every time Apple launches a new iPhone or makes it available on a new wireless carrier, there is an increase in their sales.
Even so, Android has quickly emerged as a sizable rival to iOS and that could change the purchasing decisions as customers look to buy new smartphones this winter. (In the past, there just weren’t many comparable rivals to Apple’s device).
As the chart above shows, 43 percent of all smartphone owners now have an Android device. That compares to 28 percent who own an iPhone.
Will the iPhone 5 help change those numbers? Here’s a closer look at smartphone purchasing habits.

Generated :
On October 4th, Apple will debut a new iPhone with a more powerful processor, a larger screen, and updated software in select areas of the US. What's new these days?
As expected, major global consumers will be clued in when Apple begins selling new iPhones in the US on October 4th.
Those who have purchased the new iPhone 8, iPhone 8 Plus, or iPhone 8 Plus or who just want to test out new software or technology in their smartphone will be pleased with the jump in purchases.
But even some of the prospective buyers were surprised by how quickly the iPhone 5's application screen had begun working.
Of the iPhone 5 users that requested the latest version of the software, only three remained impressed when they joined the beta. Then, one after another.
“I’ve never seen the screen this bright,” said one recent Apple customer. “This is amazing. I never even had it on before.”
Yes, the screen has its own operating system, but the general public is taking note. AT&T has vowed to allow the iPhone 5 to work flawlessly on the company's network.
Now Apple is going all out to exploit their huge market share, just like the previous iPhone users did in the US.
“The launch of the iPhone 5 and the announcement of new features to our most popular smartphones — like iPhone 5 and iPhone 8 — are designed to help Apple, AT&T, Verizon, T-Mobile and Sprint customers enjoy the full benefits of iPhone 5 and iPhone 8,” Apple CEO Tim Cook said.
The company is also opening up the doors to its newest subsidies, “special payments,” which allow subscribers to have access to extra-curricular events like lessons in Israel or prayer and performances with local musicians.
“With an iPhone 5 launch date approaching at the end of September, Apple will be able to offer discounts, pass on discounts and tools to Apple customers who purchase the iPhone 5 and the iPhone 8,” Cook said.
Some of the notifications in the iPhone 5 rollout include the iPhone 5 Experience Day, Messages, Reader, News Feed, Gmail, Calendar, Photos, Music, Videos, Messages, Apps, Website, Pictures, Speed and Health, which I believe is an important sign that Apple has smartly bought into the era of Android smartphones.
