Title : Android Wear smartwatches now work on iOS

Original :
Google's willingness to cross platforms and port all its apps to iOS devices seems to know no bounds -- and is a pleasant contrast to the format wars that traditionally dominate smartphones. After much speculation, Google announced that Android Wear smartwatches will now work with iOS devices. Previously, iPhone users who wanted a real smartwatch could only look to the Apple Watch or the Pebble. Now Android Wear smartwatches are free game, too.
Android Wear for iOS is rolling out today, August 31, to any iPhone 5, 5C, 5S, 6, or 6 Plus running iOS 8.2 or higher. Android Wear for iOS works only with the LG Watch Urbane at the moment, but future Android Wear watches like those from Huawei, Asus, and Motorola will all support iOS. It's unknown how many older Android Wear smartwatches will gain iOS support. Regardless, Google says all of the upcoming and highly anticipated Android Wear watches will work with iPhones from now on.
Just last week a posting on Amazon for the Huawei Watch hinted that iOS support was forthcoming, and now that's been confirmed.
As with many Google apps, Android Wear will undoubtedly work differently on iOS, depending on app permissions and the nature of Apple's mobile operating system, but most of the key features of Android Wear will work the same way on a smartwatch that's paired to an iPhone as a smartwatch that's paired with an Android phone. Google says that Google Now support will allow for the following Android Wear functions to work effortlessly:
Info at a glance: Notifications for phone calls, messages, and alerts from your favorite apps will all show up on your Android Wear watch, mirroring the notifications as they hit your iPhone.
Notifications for phone calls, messages, and alerts from your favorite apps will all show up on your Android Wear watch, mirroring the notifications as they hit your iPhone. Fitness tracking: You can still set fitness goals, and get daily and weekly views of your activity on your Android Wear smartwatch. It'll automatically track walking and running, as well as heart rate, so long as the watch in question has a heart rate monitor.
You can still set fitness goals, and get daily and weekly views of your activity on your Android Wear smartwatch. It'll automatically track walking and running, as well as heart rate, so long as the watch in question has a heart rate monitor. Google Now: Google Now will be as smart as ever on any Android Wear watch that's paired to an iPhone, so you'll get notified when to leave for appointments, how bad the traffic is, your flight status, and more. The classic "Ok Google" voice command will allow you to interact with the watch, ask questions, create to-do lists, and set reminders.
Only time will tell what limitations iOS puts on Android Wear, but based on Google's statements, it seems that it'll be a full-featured experience. Although it may sound counterintuitive for Google to allow Android Wear watches to work with iPhones (and vice versa), Google says it just wants to accommodate its varied user base.
In the closing of its blog post, Google quoted Dr. Seuss and added its own thoughts: "'Today you are You, that is truer than true. There is no one alive who is Youer than You.' We agree. So whoever You are, and whatever You like -- Android Wear lets you wear what you want."

Generated :
iOS is not the only OS running on Android anymore, according to a new report by data analytics firm Precise Research.
There were so many different and often-overlooked devices in iOS that it may be surprising that Android had almost a negligible presence on Wear devices (at least at the moment). The mini mobile OS has proved to be an attractive platform for marketing a simple, inexpensive Android device without much of a third-party SDK or integration.
Android Wear was introduced just a few weeks ago and will be available on the iOS App Store today, November 1. Based on recent industry analysts’ predictions of preorders and adoption rates for the device, it’s possible that Android Wear will be offered on that device from now until November 2nd, as Apple appears to be preparing to release new hardware to announce in the coming weeks.
While a small presence in Android isn’t necessarily all that much of a problem, it also means that Android could be getting a little less buzz than it might have had before the release of iOS. Moreover, it will definitely be working on Android smartwatches as well, but it’s difficult to tell whether that’s because of the huge amount of interest in fitness and fitness trackers and fitness band-based wearable devices, or maybe that’s because Android has become just a bit bit too small for most consumers.
So let’s assume that a significant number of users – particularly those in emerging markets – are already in the habit of using Android Wear, with at least one smartwatch readily available on Wear. The rest of the world should also see how much more Android phones and smartwatches use Android in general and with the incredible amount of emphasis placed on wearable devices in low-cost markets like China and India.
