Title : Olympic sprinter Oscar Pistorius pleads not guilty as murder trial opens

Original :
March 3, 2014 - Oscar Pistorius is watched by June Steenkamp, 2nd right, the mother of Reeva Steenkamp, as he arrives for his trial at the high court in Pretoria, South Africa. Pistorius is charged with murder with premeditation in the shooting death of his model girlfriend Steenkamp in the pre-dawn hours of Valentine's Day 2013.AP
The first witness in the Oscar Pistorius murder trial testified Monday to hearing "blood-curdling" screams from a woman before she heard four gunshots on the night the double-amputee Olympian killed his girlfriend.
Michell Burger, who lives about 196 yards from Pistorius' house, said the screams woke her in the pre-dawn hours of Feb. 14 last year, when Pistorius killed Reeva Steenkamp by shooting four times through a toilet door.
Pistorius, 27, says he killed Steenkamp by mistake thinking she was a dangerous intruder. Prosecutors, however, say the world-famous athlete shot his girlfriend after a fight. As soon as the trial started they used Burger's testimony to hint at a loud argument before the fatal shots.
Burger's evidence contradicts Pistorius' version of events because the runner said he thought Steenkamp was in bed and did not describe any woman screaming.
"It was very traumatic," Burger said. "You could hear it was blood-curdling screams. You can't translate it into words. The anxiousness in her voice, and fear. It leaves you cold."
Burger said: "She screamed terribly and she yelled for help" and testified that she also heard a man shout for help before the shots were fired.
Pistorius' lawyer, Barry Roux, opened his cross-examination by asking Burger if she thought Pistorius was a liar. She didn't directly answer that but questioned Pistorius' version.
"I can only tell the court what I heard that evening," Burger said. "I cannot understand how I could clearly hear a woman scream but Mr. Pistorius could not hear it."
Roux, in an attempt to discredit her recollection of the sequence of events, argued that she heard just Pistorius screaming for help and trying to get into the bathroom by breaking down the locked door with a cricket bat.
Burger didn't concede ground, saying there was "no doubt" in her mind she heard two different people screaming, one a woman, and then the four gunshots, with a gap between the first shot and then the other three. She said she could not mistake gun shots for the sound of a cricket bat hitting a door.
The trial started 90 minutes late. Pistorius pleaded not guilty to charges of murder and three other counts relating to shooting guns in public in unrelated incidents and illegal possession of ammunition. Wearing a dark gray suit and black tie, he wrote in a pad and sometimes passed notes to his defense lawyers. At one point he smiled to a person sitting behind him.
The Olympian's murder trial is being broadcast live on TV in South Africa and across the world.
Defense lawyer Kenny Oldwadge laid out Pistorius' legal strategy, reading a statement from Pistorius in which he says the killing was an accident and that there were inconsistencies in the state's case.
Pistorius said he brought two fans in from the balcony on the night after speaking to his girlfriend who was in bed beside him. He said Steenkamp must have gone into the bathroom while he was fetching the fans. Pistorius said he did not notice that she had gone then heard the bathroom window open.
"I approached the bathroom, armed with my firearm, so as to defend Reeva and I," Pistorius said in the statement. He said he then heard a noise in the toilet cubicle and was in a "fearful state" because he was unable to run away or defend himself physically since he was not wearing his prosthetic legs. He said he shouted at what he thought was an intruder and then shot through the toilet door, only later realizing that he shot Steenkamp.
Reeva Steenkamp was a glamorous model and budding reality TV show star when she was cut down at age 29.
In the courtroom, Pistorius was seated near Steenkamp's mother, June. She was quoted in the Pretoria News from an interview she gave to a British newspaper saying that she wants to see him.
"I want to look at Oscar, really look him in the eyes, and see for myself the truth about what he did to Reeva," said June Steenkamp, 67. "Whatever the court decides at the end of his trial, I will be ready to forgive him ... But first I want to force him to look at me, Reeva's mother, and see the pain and anguish he has inflicted on me. I feel I need that."
At the start of the morning, showing the media intense interest in the trial, a drone carrying cameras flew over the entrance to the courthouse in gray, drizzly skies. Several broadcasters massed live broadcast satellite trucks around the courthouse. A 24-hour cable channel devoted to covering the trial was launched in South Africa on Sunday.
If convicted on the murder charge, Pistorius could be sent to prison for at least 25 years before the chance of parole, the minimum time someone must serve if given a life sentence in South Africa. South Africa does not have the death penalty.
Judge Thokozile Masipa, hearing the biggest trial of her career, will ultimately pronounce the champion runner innocent or guilty and will decide on any sentence. South Africa has no trial by jury.
As Pistorius left the courthouse, people erupted in hoots and a few boos.

Generated :
BANGKOK, Mar 3 (Reuters) - Oscar Pistorius pleaded not guilty on Wednesday to the murder charge, but at a hearing afterwards he told a judge he was unable to understand why there was one side of the story.
A last-minute effort by prosecutors to delay the case was abandoned after Prosecutor Gerrie Nel decided it was "in the interest of the judge, not the prosecution".
Pistorius is charged with murdering Reeva Steenkamp, an Olympic gold medallist with double the leg amputee shot dead by a premeditated, premeditated murder by intruder.
Prosecutors had been pressing for a murder conviction, calling for an early autopsy, and a closer examination of Pistorius' mental and physical condition.
But prosecutors now had no option but to present the rest of the three-day trial to the judge at 9:00 a.m. (0500 GMT). The prosecutor's team will be there from 11 a.m. until 12:30 p.m.
The judge, Mansur Alirgiessian, said that it was not his understanding why they had to adjourn.
"The judge has not yet to (answer) the plea or to give a reason why he should not acquit," he said.
Steenkamp, whose 18-year-old sister Aimee was killed at their home in Pretoria, South Africa in 2012, was shot through a window at Pistorius' luxury home in the star-studded suburb of Pretoria.
Pistorius will next appear in the United States on June 27 for a trial in the biggest double-amputee jailbreak since 9/11, when U.S. foreign officials on one of the biggest terrorism attacks were first spotted checking door frames to ensure doors were locked.
(Reporting by John Stonestreet; Editing by Jeremy Laurence)
