Title : Syrian army barrel bombs kill 25 in rebel-held area of Aleppo

Original :
Syrian army helicopters dropped two barrel bombs on a crowded square in a rebel-held neighborhood in the northern city of Aleppo, killing at least 25 civilians, activists said Friday.
Among the casualties in the attack, which took place on Thursday night, were people sitting on a bus and others coming to the square to collect water, the activists said. The attack came just hours after rebels bombarded the capital, Damascus, killing nine people there Thursday.
The Aleppo attack coincided with a wider government offensive against rebel positions across Syria, where the brutal civil war has lately been overshadowed by the rampage by militants from the Islamic State group, which has captured large swaths of territory both in Syria and neighboring Iraq.
The United Nations estimates that more than 220,000 people have been killed in Syria's nearly 4-year-old conflict.
Three sources provided different death tolls from the barrel-bombings in Aleppo. Disparate casualty figures are common in the Syrian conflict, especially in the immediate aftermath of big attacks.
An activist group called the Local Coordination Committees said at least 25 died. The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said at least 27 died.
And an Aleppo-based activist, Ahmad al-Ahmad, said 47 were killed in all. He said 27 died in or near a crowded bus, while 10 others were killed as they waited to collect water from a public tanker, and 10 more died later as ambulances ferried scores of wounded to hospitals.
An amateur video posted by activists online showed paramedics helping a wounded man whose face was covered with blood come out of the bus, then rushing him way. The lifeless body of a woman is seen on a back seat of the bus, while one of a man lies on the pavement outside.
The footage also shows paramedics, flashlights on their helmets, pulling an older man from a bus window in the darkness. An unidentified man wails to the cameras, saying the bombs are "falling on us every day."
The video appeared genuine and corresponded to AP's reporting of the events depicted.

Generated :
BEIRUT (Reuters) - A coalition of rebel groups took control of six rebel-held parts of northern Aleppo late on Wednesday but were unable to take the city’s key supply route, where heavy airstrikes and artillery carried out by Syrian Arab coalition forces were inflicting losses.
Government forces have been attacking rebel-held areas in a series of recent strikes in the eastern Ghouta sector, targeting regime targets including government targets including government schools, militant headquarters and military bases, state television said.
Abu Majid, a resident of Qashabia, a centre in the eastern Ghouta sector, said the regime had managed to take around 10 percent of the territory for itself. He said opposition forces had not yet taken back areas taken by the regime.
The army also destroyed at least three rebel-held schools, as well as two air bases, he said.
Thousands of civilians were evacuated from the rebel-held Jabhat al-Nusra front, despite a bombardment that killed 16 civilians and wounded several hundred others and left hundreds of residents without food, water or food.
Prime Minister Nayef al-Zayoun had promised that Damascus would take responsibility for the civilian deaths. But commanders in the besieged opposition group said that only a Turkish Turkish government – which is responsible for providing medical care to residents in besieged areas – would rescue the wounded.
Assad described Thursday’s rebel fighting as a “military operation”.
“We don’t fight the Turkish government,” Assad told a military parade in a few hours, a rare account of an aggressive campaign by the opposition to shake off five decades of rule.
Earlier on Wednesday, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said government artillery were lobbing heavy bombs at rebel-held areas in Aleppo and the rebel-held Hama city.
All food distributions in the towns hit by Syrian government rocket fire were stopped on Wednesday morning, the watchdog said.
BEIRUT SOARING
Syrian state television provided new details of rebels’ losses in Aleppo in Syria’s Old City on Wednesday.
It said: “Both opposition and rebel forces were attacked by shelling by regime and coalition forces on the road from Aleppo to Aleppo city.”
Its report added: “All the houses hit have been broken into and parts of an earlier town have been destroyed.”
The Syrian Observatory, a Britain-based war monitor, said heavy fighting was underway in the eastern Ghouta and downtown areas of Aleppo when government forces set up defenses in the Brahmaputra border area, where rebels are encircled in their convoy of Marea reinforcements.
There was no indication whether government forces were preparing to attack rebel positions in Hama, but backed by heavy losses from air strikes and artillery, in the east of the besieged rebel-held sector of Aleppo.
U.S. President Barack Obama spoke to Assad in New York on Tuesday and said Assad needed to make the right decisions.
Many of Syria’s 83 million people are under rebel siege, though they are slowly returning to peaceful life in the city.
