Title : Search and recovery efforts continue in crash of AirAsia Flight 8501

Original :
Indonesia's National Search and Rescue Agency (BASARNAS), which is leading the operation to find AirAsia Flight 8501, said on Saturday that it has so far recovered the remains of 30 passengers and crew. The plane crashed in bad weather on Dec. 28 with 162 people on board.
The Disaster Victim Identification Police Department of Republic of Indonesia, which is leading identification efforts, has identified a total of six passengers, AirAsia said in a Facebook post published Saturday, with 24 yet to be identified.
See also: Why air disasters keep happening in Southeast Asia
Bags containing dead bodies of the passengers of AirAsia Flight 8501 are lifted to Indonesian navy vessel KRI Banda Aceh at sea off the coast of Pangkalan Bun, Indonesia, Saturday, Jan. 3, 2015.
Twelve of those remains — nine men and three women — arrived on Saturday at Bhayangkara Hospital in Surabaya, Indonesia, AirAsia said, where officials with Indonesia, Singapore and South Korea will begin work on identification.
Abdul Aziz Jaafar, head of the Royal Malaysian Navy, tweeted a photo of one of the bodies being recovered on Saturday.
#QZ8501: KD PAHANG is shown transferring the body recovered yesterday, to the sea-boat of KRI BANDA ACHEH. pic.twitter.com\/f4HdkwWt2R — Abdul Aziz Jaafar (@ChiefofNavy) January 3, 2015
"Our thoughts and prayers remain with the families and friends of our passengers and colleagues on board QZ 8501," AirAsia said in its Facebook post, as search efforts enter the seventh day in the Java Sea.
Two large objects spotted on the sea floor
BASARNAS also announced on Friday night that it may have found the plane's wreckage 100 feet beneath the surface.
Officials say they've identified two large objects resting on the sea floor that may be debris from the plane. Officials also identified an oil slick near the suspected crash site.
Indonesian police stand on the deck of a National Search and Rescue Agency (BASARNAS) ship during a search operation for the victims of AirAsia flight QZ 8501 on the Java Sea, Indonesia, Saturday, Jan. 3, 2015.
"In addition to the discovery of the bodies, joint SAR team also found several objects of that fateful plane," the agency tweeted on Friday.
Selain penemuan jenasah, tim SAR gabungan juga temukan beberapa objek dari pesawat nahas itu. http:\/\/t.co\/CI5blGu5a7 pic.twitter.com\/NgXB39erVt — Badan SAR Nasional (@SAR_NASIONAL) January 2, 2015
"With the discovery of an oil spill and two big parts of the aircraft, I can assure you these are the parts of the AirAsia plane we have been looking for," BASARNAS chief Bambang Soelistyo told reporters on Saturday.
One of the objects is approximately 30 feet long and 15 feet wide, while the second is about 22 feet long.
The agency will attempt to send a remotely operated vehicle 100 feet beneath the waves to try and photograph the objects once the weather improves on Sunday. Approximately 30 to 40 divers are also on standby to confirm that the objects are pieces of the missing plane.
A discovery of Flight 8501's wreckage would likely lead to recovery of its black box, giving investigators a clearer picture of what may have happened in the plane's final moments.
Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.

Generated :
People look at an aircraft, from the second side of the aircraft they believe is the AirAsia jet after it crashed en route from Surabaya to Surabaya in northern Thailand Wednesday Jan. 3, 2015. (REUTERS/Kham)
Several areas of Surabaya Tuesday changed slightly in an effort to search for survivors of AirAsia Flight 8501 whose wreckage was found in several other areas of the 100- to 200-square-kilometer area.
The Boeing 777-200 was flying from Surabaya to Penang when it crashed at about 8:30 a.m. On arrival at Surabaya airport, the Transportation Ministry announced that at least two engineers – two pilots – had completed the phases of the search, and the preliminary assessment of the situation was that multiple teams of searchers were deploying helicopter and plane batteries to help find the plane.
Sixteen workers from Sumi Dusu Marine Project, a joint venture between Surabaya city government and local fishermen, and two Japanese nationals – Toshiba Corp. and Kokilo Electric Corp. – were helping oversee the search. There were four other special assessment teams, including an OSI flight officer.
The chopper and the airplane both crashed, according to a statement from the Ministry of Civil Aviation, Transport and Environment. The pilots lost control of the plane and it lost contact around 1:40 a.m. (1540 GMT), a senior government official said.
The aircraft had direct flight capabilities, the official said, and was travelling at about 55 to 60 kph (44 to 46 mph) at the time. Only emergency lights would have indicated the plane was in trouble. Those on board did not die.
“The accident has caused major structural damage to the aircraft,” said Col. Liang Lim, director of Mount Kangwas, a government post in Surabaya that houses the districts where the crash occurred. “We have issued a statement to ensure the safety of the flying public.”
She told Reuters that investigators were “going very fast and trying to maintain consistency” in their efforts to locate the wreckage.
While officials confirmed that one of the main offices of Surabaya city government had been damaged, a military base at the source of the crash site remained open.
On its Twitter account, the Ministry of Civil Aviation’s mission statement posted on its Facebook page said the plane had landed at exactly the same location as as mentioned by the international aviation agency before it crashed.
The airline’s Facebook page said the weather conditions of the disaster zone had stopped, adding the crash site had changed significantly from the last time officials met and one of the engines failed.
