Title : Ex-Dendreon CEO starts healthcare investment fund Alpine BioVentures

Original :
Former Dendreon CEO Mitch Gold has partnered with biotechnology stock researcher David Miller to create a new Seattle-based investment firm called Alpine BioVentures.
The fund, which was started earlier this year, plans to invest in both public and private companies which are developing “significant innovations in healthcare technology which meaningfully improve the lives of patients.”
Gold left the CEO post at Dendreon in February 2012, resigning after nine years on the job. That followed a series of layoffs and disappointments around the company’s prostate cancer drug, Provenge. Seattle-based Dendreon now has a market value of $457 million, trading at $2.89. In 2010, the stock topped $50 per share.
Alpine notes on its Web site.
We believe healthcare companies offer extraordinary risk\/reward characteristics. Our intensive original research capabilities have proven adept at uncovering unseen and undervalued opportunities in the healthcare space. Our philosophy combines a fundamental scientific review to assess the unmet medical need, a belief in the management team, and patience to endure the unique rhythms of the biotechnology sector.
Luke Timmerman at Xconomy has more details on the fund, noting that it is being formed during an uptick in the healthcare industry with more than 31 IPOs so far this year in the sector. “You’re seeing a lot of interesting developments in cancer and rare diseases, and I want to be a part of it,” Gold told Xconomy. The size of the fund is not being disclosed, and a search of public records related to the fund turned up no results.
Gold is joined at the firm by David Miller, the former CEO and publisher of Biotech Stock Research.

Generated :
A former employee of Progenics Pharmaceuticals has launched a new healthcare investment fund, Alpine BioVentures, after wrapping up several years of a career with Dendreon (NASDAQ:DNDN). With 53 employees, Alpine BioVentures is the first major U.S. venture to be run by a female founder, which will be managed by Anchorage, Alaska-based non-executive director Rick Skelter. The firm is also the first VC-backed venture since Nielsen, an environmental giant, was started.
AlpineBioVentures invests in healthcare and biotechnology startups, and if any investor is interested in the firm, that investor would be expected to announce their plans shortly. During his time at Dendreon, Skelter headed up the company’s health and wellness and drug development effort, where he led its launch of Dendreon’s (NASDAQ:DNDN) drug Provenge. In January 2013, Skelter created a company called Quintiles for its hepatitis C drug DXH, which at the time was being used in combination with other drugs with its patented Dendreon drug adjuvant which is used to treat adults with diabetes. Prior to starting Dendreon, Skelter co-founded Johnson & Johnson (NYSE:JNJ), which also treated major leprosy, AIDS, breast cancer, cervical cancer, and many others in the 1990s and early 2000s.
“The decision was not the right one for me personally or for the board of directors at Dendreon,” Skelter told Daily Intel. “At those early days, my interest in healthcare was very active and massive. I always felt that more opportunities for women – and I particularly wanted to be part of a highly successful place like Silicon Valley, where there were great opportunities for women to build their own companies and entrepreneurs…What excites me about Alpine BioVentures is that we are putting our money and energy into companies that empower women and advance biomedical discoveries.”
A year ago, The Marin Independent Journal reported that BioVentures would split its commission revenues with its investors. Alpine BioVentures now manages an $80 million annual turnover. Skelter stressed that Alpine BioVentures has no intention of ending its affiliation with Dendreon. This has been one of his top priorities since he was hired in June 2012. He has been involved with BioVentures since 2008, when he was a St. Jude Medical (NYSE:STJ) Vice President of Human Resources.
“We’re pleased to be going through what we call the most critical time period in the biotech industry,” Skelter told Daily Intel. “The new management team at Alpine BioVentures is taking the medical world as a whole very seriously, and we think very highly of the direction that this company is going.”
