Title : Amazon’s new Appstore gets first crack at PopCap’s new Android games

Original :
PopCap Games this morning announced an agreement that gives Amazon.com a limited-time exclusive deal for the new Android versions of two favorite titles from the Seattle game company.
It’s a sign of Amazon’s growing influence in the market for apps on Google’s Android operating system, in competition with Google’s own Android Market. The deal with PopCap comes amid reports that the online retailer is developing its own Android tablet device for possible release later this year.
PopCap’s game Chuzzle will be available exclusively on the Amazon Android Appstore for two weeks starting on Tuesday, followed by another two-week exclusive offer for Plants vs. Zombies. Both games will be free on their first day in the store, and $2.99 after that.
In a news release announcing the deal, PopCap senior director Giordano Bruno Contestabile called the relationship with Amazon “pivotal to PopCap’s overall strategy in bringing a growing roster of mobile titles to the ever-widening base of smartphone users.”
No word yet on when other PopCap games will be coming to Android.

Generated :
Rambling shall be the order of the day.
PopCap has once again put the handset-centric tablet toy mania to rest, announcing the launch of its Appstore which comes with a Game Center option for Android in the Game Center. Yep, it’s a little smack-dabing-business gal since you can order from the game center to Android’s online marketplace.
For the uninitiated, the Appstore is kind of Google’s ahem, to do with the buttons. As an example of the great laptop tech (the 3.5mm stereo headphone jack), you can order the game, complete with the exclusive pinhole to the App Store, for an Android handheld. You can choose for yourself or play with your housemates, in a PC with the technology.
Unfortunately, there’s no “home-mode” mode, so you must go all in and play yourself. The Appstore right now has a Android Appstore launcher to boot, an option to disable the Gallery but there’s no version 3.0 still in work. Or you can make an app you may use in a game and install it, spread it across Android tablets and phones and take it to Tap, shake it over, whereupon you go back to play with it again. Once you do, you can always give it a shake.
Thus far, there have been no issues with importing the finished game from PS3, PCs and Blackberrys to the Appstore. Our only puzzler thing though, is that every proper Game Center startup means that you need to play through at least part of a number of apps for free. Plus you can get all your games together in one cut-down version, helping you cope with many more tedious tasks at hand.
But good news for shoppers, as the Appstore is officially all iOS, Android, and Windows Phone 7 devices. We’re still waiting for actual Cupertino-bound notifications about release, so we’ll have to wait a while to find out when it comes.
Will it debut at many more stores around the same time? Should you wait?
Source: CNET
