Title : Germanwings crash: airliners change cockpit rules after co-pilot blamed – as it happened

Original :
“We are horrified to discover today that the aircraft that crashed in the south of France appears to have been crashed deliberately – probably by the co-pilot of flight 4U9525. Based on audio taken from the voice recorder, the French authorities have come to the conclusion that after the aircraft had reached cruising altitude, the captain left the cockpit for a short time and was then unable to re-enter.
“It appears that the co-pilot, who had stayed in the cockpit, prevented the captain from re-entering by fully locking the cockpit door in order to then initiate the fatal descent. All Germanwings and Lufthansa employees are deeply shocked. We could never have imagined that a tragedy like this could occur within our company.
“Yet even after this terrible event, we have full faith in our pilots. They remain the best in the world; this event is an extremely tragic isolated incident.
“We share in the sadness, shock and incomprehension of the bereaved families and friends and that of millions of other people.”

Generated :
Germanwings pilots are to undergo a weeklong training programme after a car slammed into another plane at a low altitude in the North Sea this week, killing all 118 passengers on board.
A third plane crashed in the French Alps at a high speed on Sunday morning, killing all of the victims including four French crew members.
Fares are currently down at around $35m (£14.7m), according to Flightradar24, and this flight had been on the cards for more than six hours but by Tuesday evening some passengers believed it was cancelled.
According to aviation expert Fermi Jayner, the pilots are performing additional training. However the new programme will probably not work out to how well their course could be implemented, and may not keep costs down.
Last year, Germanwings raised passenger fares by as much as 25%, and a voluntary Hatterisch for all passengers was launched.
Sky News columnist Adam Williams, speaking on German radio, said: “In the last five months, at least 60 aircraft have been forced into takeoffs and landings by Germanwings since last September.”
He continued: “I don’t want to give the impression that this was much more traumatic but there has been some death-wares on many of these aircraft.”
The comments were echoed by airlines including British Airways, Ryanair and Air Berlin, all where they said the crash had left a great deal of damage.
