Title : Hammers confirm Olympic Stadium switch

Original :
WEST HAM have confirmed the Olympic Stadium will be their new home from the start of the 2016\/17 season.
Retractable seats are to be installed around the pitch and an expanded roof will be part of a multi-million-pound transformation of the landmark London 2012 venue.
Revealing the Hammers have agreed a 99-year lease, vice-chairman Karren Brady said: “A capacity of at least 54,000 seats will see us amongst the top five-attended clubs in the Premier League.
“In addition, we are moving to one of the best connected stadiums in Europe, set in its own parkland with world-class facilities.
“The move provides an opportunity to improve our fortunes on every level including opening doors to new revenue streams.”
FROM FIREWORKS TO FOOTBALL ... the Olympic Stadium will host the beautiful game from 2016
London Mayor Boris Johnson added: “This is a truly momentous milestone for London’s spectacular Olympic Stadium, ensuring its credible and sustainable future.
“Through this deal with West Ham, we are defying the gloomsters who predicted this landmark would become a dusty relic.
“With a series of world-class entertainment and sporting fixtures already in the bag for Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, this iconic site is set to be the glittering centrepiece of ambitious regeneration plans for East London."
The plans for the future of West Ham’s current Upton Park stadium and the surrounding area remain confidential for the time being.
RELATED STORIES Ferdinand defends decision to be a TV pundit in Qatar

Generated :
Hammers international defender Brad Guzan has confirmed he will be switching from the athletics team to their football side when he finishes his contract in 2015.
The Turkey international has been capped for the last two years and won the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow and Atlanta in the USA.
Having also won a National Cricket League or T20 Games title with the Lionesses, he helped score 202 runs in six matches in Jamaica in 2011, and then put in hundreds during the Caribbean Twenty20 championship.
Guzan arrived at the Shaw Court Stadium in Birmingham after two seasons with Black Caps Australia and felt that he had all the qualities needed to take the Blues to the London Games.
"I have been working hard on my game and hopefully I will help the team, hopefully he can make it to London and I can see it in his eyes," Guzan told media at the stadium on Monday.
Before his arrival, Guzan had signed for Birmingham City, having started his career at Wales Under-19 side the Llewellyn All Blacks.
But with his contract expiring later this year, Guzan was unavailable for selection and Aberdeen had initially offered him a move to Birmingham.
The 26-year-old, who spent the last two seasons at the troubled west London club for which he trained under then West Brom's former Birmingham City manager David Edwards, was now hoping for a return to action with Blues, having won his first cap in last month's 3-0 League One win against Fulham at home.
He will now switch to midfield as soon as his contract ends, having also attracted interest from Reading and Arsenal.
Guzan, who scored 110 in the Ukraine Super Cup in 2009, says Birmingham are a strong team and will give him plenty of chances to impress in training.
"They have lots of players you can attack, but if you bring them into your team as well, the players will come off and work hard to score a few runs," he added.
"I think their pace will be more dangerous and they will play well with the ball. Once I get used to it, I will bring that into the team."
Guzan, who recently trained at Mustapha Stadium after gaining a place under first-team manager James Queally, says he knows coach Queally closely and the squad would want to start him and the others in the team.
"Queally told me, 'You want to play football when you are in Birmingham and since he is here, I want you to do well and score goals, but why should you not be happy with who you play for,'" Guzan explained.
"And I really respect him. I know James won't like to go down the wrong track, he had a great chance to win this season but when he did he knew there would be ups and downs."
