Title : Army doctors performed CPR on pilot after he suffered heart attack mid-flight

Original :
A United Airlines pilot died after suffering a major heart attack while flying from Houston to Seattle, forcing crew members to make an emergency landing in Idaho while two doctors on board did CPR in the first-class cabin.
Pilot Henry Skillern, 63, of Humble, Texas, was still alive when firefighters and paramedics ran to his aid Thursday night on the Boise Airport tarmack. He died a short time later while being treated at Saint Alphonsus Regional Medical Center, spokeswoman Jennifer Krajnik said.
Skillern had been a pilot for United Airlines for 26 years.
Boise airport spokeswoman Patti Miller said it's not uncommon for a medical emergency to force a plane to divert to the nearest airport. The Boise airport has had three such diversions in the past two days, she said. But it's rare for a serious malady to strike pilots who undergo regular medical screening to keep their Federal Aviation Administration certification current.
Passengers aboard the Boeing 737-900 flown by Skillern seemed to handle the emergency well, Miller said.
"It seemed like they felt that everything that could be done, was being done," she said. "The passengers were concerned for him, but everyone was very calm."
Passenger Bryant Magill described a professional scene onboard.
"I'm really impressed with all the flight attendants," Magill told Seattle TV station KOMO. "They kept themselves calm. They kept it professional. There was no panic on the plane."
United spokeswoman Christen David declined to release details about how the crew members realized the pilot was in distress and what their next steps were. The first officer radioed air traffic controllers at 7:55 p.m. to report the aircraft needed to make an emergency landing; the plane was on the ground in Boise by 8:10 p.m., Miller said.
The two doctors and an off-duty United Airlines pilot were among the 161 people aboard the flight. The off-duty pilot aided the first officer -- who is also a trained pilot -- in landing the plane while the physicians performed CPR.
The doctors who helped the pilot were from Madigan Army Medical Center, said Jay Ebbeson, public affairs officer for the hospital at Joint Base Lewis-McChord.
Glenn Harmon, an aerospace physiologist who was an airline pilot for nine years before becoming a professor at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, said all commercial airline pilots undergo a medical screening every six months to keep their certification with the FAA.
That screening typically includes a test to measure heart function called an EKG, Harmon said, but the test doesn't necessarily pick up every condition.
Sometimes, the in-flight environment can have a small impact on pre-existing medical conditions, Harmon said. The air on a flight is dry, usually at between 10 or 20 percent humidity, and that can contribute to dehydration.
"One thing that happens to us as pilots is we might be dehydrated and not know it," Harmon said. "We don't like to guzzle lots of water because it's so complicated now to get up and leave the cockpit to go to the bathroom."
Sitting in a cramped seating position for long periods can lead to deep vein thrombosis, or clots deep inside the body. Passengers can get up from their seats and move around to help prevent DVT, but pilots don't get the same opportunity, Harmon said.
The cabin pressure also has a slight effect on blood oxygen levels.
Flight crews train for medical emergencies, and most airlines subscribe to a service that puts them in immediate radio contact with a doctor on the ground in case of emergencies. Additionally, all commercial flights have a first officer onboard who is trained to fly the plane in addition to the pilot. There's often a third, off-duty pilot flying to or from work who can help in an emergency.
Even the biggest commercial aircrafts can generally be flown and landed by just one pilot, Harmon said.

Generated :
By Emma Amaize
SANTA FE, N.M. (KRQE) – The Air Force Medical Center has confirmed the injuries sustained by a pilot after he suffered a heart attack mid-flight.
Lieutenant General Karl Fuchs, who spent nearly four years flying the C-130 Hercules in South Dakota and has been with the Air Force Medical Center for more than 10 years, was airlifted off the flight Monday night for surgery.
Flight conditions on Sunday deteriorated when a pilot passed out in the aircraft’s instrument room, pushing the back of his midsection through a third-person cockpit, federal officials said.
Fuchs was flying from Moffett Field to Monterey when he suffered a heart attack, according to Air Force Command and Control Center spokesman Bill Gregory. He had a heart attack just minutes before takeoff.
When paramedics rushed him to the hospital, he was pronounced dead shortly after landing. The doctor had never flown a medical aircraft before and was quick to call for an emergency medical technician, Gregory said.
“Unfortunately, this was a fairly life-threatening situation,” Gregory said. “He had likely suffered a heart attack under control and currently there is a procedure to use on him to initiate chest x-rays and CT scans and restock his heart during in-flight on the plane.”
A military crash report, declassified by the Air Force in 2011, found Fuchs had experienced some of the worst air travel of any pilot the military has ever trained. In that time, he had flown across all the western United States, including Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan, and notched a handful of air accidents.
However, his crash as it happened is the first recorded loss of a person among air force airman during a service life-span, Gregory said.
“This is an awful tragedy,” Gregory said. “It is unfortunate that he was flying a civilian plane in the air when he became seriously injured.”
The Air Force is collaborating with Bern of Massachusetts and Arkansas-based EMS Air Rescue Care to provide a public information campaign. It is promising to report every incident that may have come to light with their local Colorado or New Mexico providers.
