Title : Freelancers are in line for a healthcare upgrade. But will they sign up?

Original :
Here’s a question you don’t expect to see when you’re filling out a medical form: “Do you have an accountant?”
It is one you will find, however, at the Freelancers Union’s Brooklyn primary care centre. It’s not like most doctors’ offices. It has the spare, blonde-wood appeal of an Ikea catalogue. There are couches you can sink into, rather than hard chairs you perch on. Instead of magazines, four glossy iPads invite clients to browse the internet, over free Wi-Fi. A yoga room beckons with sea-foam-green yoga mats and tiny handweights in baby pink and baby blue – perfect for meditating or stretching even with the street noise outside.
Here’s the catch: it’s only for freelancers.
The Freelancers Union, a trade group for the members of the gig economy, has just signed a partnership with Empire BlueCross BlueShield to provide affordable health insurance to its 130,000 members in New York. The plan’s new services include easier paperwork and access to its serene primary care centres, which don’t charge co-pays. The union will also oversee all billing and enrolment and provide advocacy and checkups that prescribe a tax-prep class or tai chi and yoga to reduce stress from finances.
A Freelancers Union ad emphasises healthcare as a unifying force.
The big selling point, however, is lower premiums. The Freelancers Union already had an insurance plan in place, but due to the Affordable Care Act, which restricts insurers from limiting membership to certain groups, the plan’s premiums would be 14% higher than the Empire deal.
Under the new deal between the union and Empire, seven out of nine of the available plans will see a reduction in premiums, ranging from 1% to 19% in monthly costs. The premiums for the plan will range from $198 a month for the most basic plan to $658 a month for the platinum plan. Members of the union will be on the Empire plan as of January 2015.
The new Empire deal is not just a health plan; it’s also a membership drive of sorts. There are 53 million freelancers in the US, only 250,000 of whom are Freelancers Union members. By 2020, this “independent” workforce is expected to be as much as 70 million people.
“These jobs are what I call ‘permorary’,” Phil Press, executive vice-president at Temporary Alternatives, told the Guardian earlier this year, using a variation on the often-derisive “permalancer” moniker.
“People think that temping is a quick fix, but it’s not,” he said. “Not any more.”
The rise of the part-time workers is in fact an economic fall for many people. Temp workers can stay at assignments for months, even a year. The firms, which are protected from having to pay unemployment, taxes or benefits, prefer this kind of a workforce because it requires low or no benefits and little commitment.
The Freelancers Union has gone the activist route to draw new members, calling its collective power “a quiet revolution”.
“I believe that isolated individuals can’t go it alone. Our democracy always works best when you have a civic infrastructure,” says Sara Horowitz, the union’s founder and executive director.
Healthcare, the thinking goes, may bring freelancers together in a way that other issues can’t. The union’s perks, like the free paperwork, are designed to keep members in the fold and attract new freelancers to sign up as members.
“Because we work with freelancers, we can see what the future is going to be like,” says Horowitz. “We think the next crisis is going to be [healthcare].”
The union said it might sign similar partnerships in other states. The union has two primary care facilities in New York and is looking to open 15 more in cities like Philadelphia, Portland, Austin, San Francisco and Los Angeles.
Now the freelancers just need to sign up.

Generated :
Before the idea of the "private sector" came to mind, the "choice" of private employers was the first thing that faced the media. The debate felt even stranger to the public. While the interest of the private sector in a healthcare reform deal had been building, things were close to developing. And now health professionals are starting to choose their investments.
Three providers, one within the healthcare industry and one in the entrepreneurship industry, have signed up a healthcare REIT with $100 million in credit, applying for new funds to grow their service offerings. The REIT was founded in Florida in 2009, and the offer is expected to be up in the middle of next year. But unlike other recent privatizations, these plans do not come with a free lunch.
3 Mutual benefits
More than a few Maryland legislators are saying healthcare-related investment opportunities deserve to get more funding, and they're taking credit for it. In March, Maryland House Speaker Michael Busch called for the Governor to consider a REIT program to bridge the funding gap. One possibility is asking for a $250 million opening up to private shareholders. However, there's been much speculation in regards to how Maryland, and the rest of the nation, would see healthcare funds, bringing together public and private equity investments.
1. Management fees are fixed, and prospective investors need to earn at least what they think is reasonable. There's no guarantee these recurring investments will be returned to investors if the return is negative, but a potential possibility is that in the long run, investors can get back what they earned with their investment. There are two types of investors: investors first are in the program, and second is regulated enterprises that earn a higher percentage of their capital raised through REITs. These opportunities come in phases, with building blocks being developed that will be backed by reasonable returns over time.
# 3. Potential returns remain hard to gauge. But an annual dividend of between 7.15 percent and 11.56 percent may give some indication. Year-over-year gains (10 percent or more) have helped increase the number of REITs to about 21, according to Renaissance Capital. But one good metric is the yield. Earnings under the REIT program averaged a 5.69 percent yield last year. Favorable exchange rates could not have helped the sector. Under the REIT program, companies that don't yield more than a 5.71 percent yield will get the flexibility to adjust their payout percentage. And REITs will have the flexibility to plan for their relative costs even if the yield drops considerably.
- Bill Hawkins
- Alex Spencer
