Title : Rio Olympics 2016: Usain Bolt throws javelin with lights out inside Olympic Stadium

Original :
Jamaica sprint superstar completed his amazing triple triple of golds before lugging javelin further than Jessica Ennis-Hill
IT seems there is nothing Usain Bolt can’t do at the Olympics – able to move like an arrow… and throw them too!
Not content with his astonishing TRIPLE TRIPLE of sprint golds, it has emerged that the Jamaican superstar has an arm like a shotgun.
Twitter \/ ​Franck Ballanger 7 Usain Bolt stuns Olympic Stadium staff by giving the javelin a try
Twitter \/ ​Franck Ballanger 7 Bolt launches the javelin to the air at 1.40am in Rio
Twitter \/ ​Franck Ballanger 7 His effort lands in the turf before being measured at an impressive 55metres
Reuters 7 Bolt broke sprint records by winning three golds at three Olympics
Usain Bolt celebrates ninth Olympic gold medal by throwing the javelin
With the lights out at 1.40 in the morning inside Rio's Olympic Stadium, there was one final cheer for the day after Mo Farah had clinched another Great Britain gold - helping take Team GB past their tally from London 2012.
And it came as giant sprinter Bolt appeared with a javelin in his hand!
Related stories Officials Roo-ined it GB sprinter Martyn Rooney 'even angrier' after watching replay of relay disqualification OH YES! Christine Ohuruogu and Co take bronze in 4x400m relay to take GB past medal tally from London 2012 WALK OVER Bianca Walkden clinches bronze for Team GB as up-and-down week for taekwondo Brits comes to an end Quad goals Mo Farah admits he won his fourth Olympic gold medal by resting up in his room and doing NOTHING DRUNKEN LIES Teary Ryan Lochte admits he was drunk when he 'over-exaggerated' account of Rio petrol station robbery COMETH THE FARAH Mo Farah completes historic Olympic double-double with 5,000m gold - repeating 2012 heroics Neym and fortune Emotional Neymar breaks down in tears after sinking winning penalty to send Brazil to Olympic glory GOODBYE Rio Olympics 2016: Your full guide to the who, what, where and when of the Closing Ceremony
Bolt urged the remaining staff inside the stadium to cheer him on before launching his arrow against a backdrop of empty seats.
The attempt was then reportedly measured at a not-too-shabby 55 metres!
And, to put that into perspective, that is nine metres further than GB heptathlete Jessica Ennis-Hill threw in picking up her silver medal in Rio.
PA:Press Association 7 Bolt had won the 200m earlier this week to grab his second gold of the Games

Generated :
TEHRAN (Reuters) - Jamaican sprint king Usain Bolt threw a javelin about 20 meters (84 feet) into the Olympic Stadium's inflatable as part of preparations for next month's Winter Olympics, media members said on Thursday.
Bolt, an Olympic champion six times, has been one of the brightest star attractions at the Rio Games - one of the highest profile sporting events on the planet.
But his timing this year for the World Championships in Baku in Azerbaijan in August may have been off after he was found dead outside his home.
BMU's website JJCNews.net listed a letter sent to Bolt on Wednesday saying "fastening-up days and perfect throwing performances should allow him to run free."
While there is no suggestion that Bolt had faked his death, several sources have speculated the 27-year-old was suffering from heart problems and liver issues.
Bolt won gold at the 2012 Olympics in London but missed last year's World Championships due to a back injury.
(Reporting by Magdalena Mis; Editing by Hugh Lawson)
