Title : Tuesday Sector Leaders: Utilities, Healthcare

Original :
The best performing sector as of midday Tuesday is the Utilities sector, not showing much of a loss. Within the sector, AES Corp. (NYSE: AES) and NRG Energy Inc (NYSE: NRG) are two large stocks leading the way, showing a gain of 1.2% and 1.1%, respectively. Among utilities ETFs, one ETF following the sector is the Utilities Select Sector SPDR ETF (AMEX: XLU), which is down 0.1% on the day, and down 6.41% year-to-date. AES Corp., meanwhile, is down 11.04% year-to-date, and NRG Energy Inc, is down 10.24% year-to-date. Combined, AES and NRG make up approximately 3.0% of the underlying holdings of XLU.
The next best performing sector is the Healthcare sector, losing just 0.2%. Among large Healthcare stocks, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASD: REGN) and Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (NASD: ALXN) are the most notable, showing a gain of 3.3% and 1.7%, respectively. One ETF closely tracking Healthcare stocks is the Health Care Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLV), which is down 0.4% in midday trading, and up 6.90% on a year-to-date basis. Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., meanwhile, is up 13.73% year-to-date, and Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc., is down 1.90% year-to-date. Combined, REGN and ALXN make up approximately 2.5% of the underlying holdings of XLV.
Click here to find out 25 Dividend Giants Widely Held By ETFs »
Comparing these stocks and ETFs on a trailing twelve month basis, below is a relative stock price performance chart, with each of the symbols shown in a different color as labeled in the legend at the bottom:
Here’s a snapshot of how the S&P 500 components within the various sectors are faring in afternoon trading on Tuesday. As you can see, none of the sectors are up on the day, while eight sectors are down.

Generated :
By Ken Noguchi and Pete Schroeder
(Kitpik) - The financials did not make news. Research firm IHS Global Insight projected a consumer-debt decline in China and said dollar strength also contributed to the lower-than-expected first-quarter gross domestic product growth.
The latest ADP National Employment Report showed unemployment falling to 7.6 percent in January, up from 7.5 percent the previous month.
Continue Reading Below
Finance firms and housing developers continued to post mixed results, with mostly positive growth slowing from 8.5 percent in the previous quarter. Meanwhile, analysts projected top-line growth in Japan, Russia and the UK would continue to disappoint, especially as Seoul rebuffed interest from U.S. giant Sears Holdings Corp.
This month, things are generally looking up for business-utility clients as vacationers back home get the autumn getaway.
In equities, December's slide trimmed the Dow Jones Industrial Average's gain from the previous session, but still managed to hold gains above the 10,000 level as Europe's debt crisis deepened, the dollar weakened, and strong gains by commercial banks helped stability.
-- The U.S. Labor Department forecast a modest gain in hiring for March on Thursday. The unemployment rate will probably remain steady this month at 6.9 percent, well below the 5.9 percent average expected by economists, the Labor Department said in a report.
Write to Charlie Schneider at Charlie.Schneider@wsj.com
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
Advertisement
March 17, 2015 10:43 ET (14:43 GMT)
