Title : Army soldier accused of avoiding flag salute, posting image on social media

Original :
Officials at Fort Carson in Colorado said Wednesday they are investigating reports that a soldier posted a photo on Instagram of herself deliberately avoiding saluting the flag, touching off a storm of criticism from a group representing families who lost loved ones.
Base officials issued a statement Wednesday saying they are aware of a social media post allegedly made by Pfc. Tariqka Sheffey indicating she stayed in her car to avoid a flag ceremony and they are looking into the situation.
Comments posted with the photo showing a female soldier in uniform relaxing in a car said "This is me laying back in my car hiding so I don't have to salute the (5 p.m. flag ceremony)." Her comments also told people to keep any angry responses to themselves. The story was first reported by the Army Times.
The initial post was later taken down.
According to the Department of Defense policies on social media posted on the web, soldiers are required to refrain from posting any comments or visual images that could hurt the military and ask permission before sending out any sensitive information.
Fort Carson officials said Wednesday they will continue to educate soldiers on standards and discipline and appropriate professional conduct on social media. A news conference was scheduled to discuss the issues Wednesday.
Ami Neiberger-Miller, spokeswoman for the Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors, which has helped 44,000 people who have lost loved ones since 1994, said Wednesday thousands of people have lost their lives fighting for the American flag.
"I think any patriotic person would find this offensive," she said.
Neiberger-Miller said this is the second serious incident in a week. Last week, two Wisconsin National Guard members were suspended in an investigation stemming from a photograph showing soldiers clowning around by an empty flag-draped casket at a guard training facility.
The photograph shows soldiers mugging for the camera around the empty casket. It shows 14 men and women posing, some lightheartedly. Two pairs of men hug playfully, another man has his back turned and is pointing off in the distance, and a kneeling woman flashes a peace sign.
The caption reads, "We put the FUN in funeral -- your fearless honor guard from various states."
Fort Carson spokeswoman Dani Johnson said Sheffey wasn't available for comment on Wednesday and attempts to reach the Wisconsin soldiers have been unsuccessful.

Generated :
A former Marine lieutenant posted an image online of himself on the Internet wearing a U.S. Army Army flag as a second badge.
The photo became public on Friday, when an Instagram user posted a photo on the social media site showing only a U.S. Army insignia but a red and white symbol of Iraq.
The image sparked outrage among Army officers and in particular, the second flag in Iraq, the "green, gold and silver" emblem that had been the symbol of the U.S. forces for years.
The photo circulated among thousands of people across the world over several days, as troops in Iraq searched for their fallen comrades who had left battlefields of America to fight abroad.
Retired Capt. David J. Nylander, 45, the active-duty sergeant major who was first commissioned, was quickly detained at his New Jersey military base at 3:07 a.m.
He posted his picture to social media and was at first held by the Pentagon. The response was largely positive, with many people posting their own reactions. One person wrote: "The name Lt Col Nylander was visible a white flag placed on the military symbol that serves as the legal profession. Unknown."
Much was missing in Nylander's photos. He was arrested in August and eventually released after pleading guilty to one count of leaving his home during an overnight patrol to kill any person armed with firearms, authorities said. The charges went to trial this past July, according to authorities.
"I was arrested and handcuffed. That was a good thing. I didn't come in there in anger," Nylander told The Associated Press. "I wouldn't take my anger out on my fellow soldiers."
Two of the 13 corporals on Nylander's unit have already been charged in the case, and Maj. Nathan Monzon, the sergeant major, is scheduled to be in court in June. Nylander is serving 30 months for his role in an incident in Fallujah in April 2011.
Nylander's defense attorney, Edward Wilson, said he expects defense attorneys to have an opportunity to discuss the charge in a trial.
"I don't see any situation here where it has conflict of interest, and no separation, particularly not between the fact that a corporal is indicted and the military operation, rather than between the core unit and any public performance," Wilson said.
In addition to his military career, Nylander served in the Marine Corps in Iraq from 2008 to 2011.
The U.S. was spurred to establish the Uniform Code of Military Justice in 2010 to bring uniformity to soldiers, and to ensure that soldiers weren't forced to switch careers after mistakes made on their decision-making and uniforming can be reversed.
The court-martial case stemmed from a confession Nylander made in 2010 when he said he gave up his weapons when his superiors called. That's still not enough evidence to prove a conflict of interest, officials said.
Since 2006, more than 80 military police officers have been charged in connection with child abuse in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. Nearly 100 soldiers in this case face misdemeanor charges, and 42 other military officers have faced weapons charges and other misconduct charges for conflict of interest.
____
Online:
Corrects To: In early 2006, a court-martial case was at 29 soldiers.
___
Follow Jennifer Kay on Twitter at https://twitter.com/jennawryne
