Title : KenSci raises $22M to help healthcare companies predict when patients will get sick and lower costs

Original :
KenSci has raised an additional $22 million to fuel growth of its machine learning and AI-powered technology that helps health systems predict when patients will get sick and lower healthcare costs.
Polaris Partners led the Series B round, which included participation from existing investors such as Ignition Partners, Osage University Partners, and Mindset Ventures. UL Ventures also joined the round as a strategic investor. Total funding to date is $30 million.
Founded in 2015 by two childhood friends — Samir Manjure, a longtime former Microsoft exec, and University of Washington-Tacoma professor patient data from a number of existing sources, including data collected from patient devices, electronic medical records, and public records. The platform then assembles the data so its machine learning systems can use it to predict clinical, operational and financial risks.
The company’s customers include NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde, and Health Promotion Board Singapore.
“In the last two years, we’ve singularly invested ourselves in building a platform that simplifies the way health systems look at their data and gain actionable, predictive insights to save lives and costs,” Manjure said in a statement. “With this round of funding, we’re excited to take these capabilities to a global stage with partners who complement our capabilities and are committed to helping us drive this transformation across the care continuum.”
Healthcare spending in the U.S. increased 3.9 percent in 2017 to $3.5 trillion, according to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
KenSci appeared on GeekWire’s Elevator Pitch show last year, pitching its business to a group of judges. The company, which employs more than 50 people and has additional offices in Singapore and Hyderabad, was also nominated for the Innovation of the Year category at the 2018 GeekWire Awards.
“If you can predict, then you can potentially prevent — and not only that, but you can make better outcomes happen and reduce cost,” Manjure said in his pitch, which you can watch below.

Generated :
LOS ANGELES (CN) – The nonprofit non-profit overseeing health care marketplaces to help small and mid-sized companies prepare for a worst-case scenario of catastrophic illness is raising $22 million to help protect users and prevent future injuries.
The Early Identifier, or EAR, is making four investments. It helps web-based insurance companies join the early insurance industry in a fit of panic, and the investment is meant to do this. EAR to date has raised $50 million in its first round of funding, according to the Center for Healthcare Innovation.
The EAR Smart Finance project aims to organize, test and lead patient data, in an effort to maintain a strong understanding of early life health care providers and those on the front lines of the markets in which they operate.
In January, for example, POLITICO reported that Health Care Networks, a managed-care provider of end-to-end healthcare services, has raised $25 million in its Series C venture round, led by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway. The company is also backed by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Organization.
While EAR is paid to market health care services to companies, it also has a contract to help customers navigate financial regulations and the insurance system.
“It’s a wonderful opportunity to put additional critical thinking skills into the data science work we do,” said team leader Vijay Mandalaraje, an advisor to AT&T and AFLAC Global and previously Vice President of The Early Identifier, who will lead the EAR team.
The data science investment is part of an infrastructure backed by new IPOs, private equity and venture investments. Early Identifier and some of the newer more sophisticated IPOs have sought to recognize the “inner complexity” of healthcare IT, and become critical thinkers about how technology could help improve the healthcare industry.
“Organizations around the country are reinventing themselves, and that helps us predict the future,” Mandalaraje said.
In August, The Early Identifier said it will open a $75 million Series C round of funding, led by the investment firm GVC, and is headed by new CEO Devinder Kaur.
REPAIR, Restore, Shout and Thank Those who Keep My Health Insurance Rates Growing: A strategic investment, led by Google Ventures, includes investments from IDV, Genome Finance, Sierra Ventures, Google Ventures and Avid Ventures.
“The Early Identifier’s mission is to help consumers become smarter in how they can insure themselves against the pre-existing conditions that led to the already-existing set of risks that prevented them from getting what they need,” Kaur said.
When deciding what services to invest in, the EAR team will recommend the technologies available to the businesses they align with. EAR also will recommend useful plans developed for companies, including valuable supplemental insurance and free data analytics capabilities.
The EAR will use the funds to help educate and train its up and coming talent in the areas of health, outcomes and stress management. For example, the group will recommend core health care plans for consumers with preexisting conditions; depending on the health provider’s plans, the professional alternative coverage could include a preexisting condition, or third-party coverage such as HIPAA; the startup may also recommend digital health initiatives.
Efforts on the EAR team will also address “the growing need to manage vital data alongside sophisticated algorithms,” MDB CEO Shereeisha Powell said.
The EAR team will work with the HHS to solve the entire burden of cost burdens associated with a system that is more efficient and more resilient to more serious health emergencies.
“The predictability and predictability of health care delivery systems is important to medical care in every country around the world. And to mitigate those risks, we need the accuracy of the information available, and to enable effective plans that both the patient and physician can be confident of,” Powell said.
The EAR team has also compiled data on each leading hub of healthcare in the United States, and has already predicted 525 global plans and plans to build more clusters in 2030.
Like this: Like Loading...
