Title : Olympic skater Debi Thomas is broke in bug-infested trailer

Original :
Fallen Olympic figure skater and doctor Debi Thomas is now living in a bed bug-infested trailer park where she's penniless and begging former fans for money, she revealed in a new interview.
The 48-year-old former athlete has hit rock bottom nearly 30 years after becoming the first African American to win the women's title at the U.S. Figure Skating Championships, she told Iyanla Vanzant on the relationship expert's "Fix My Life" series.
"(I feel) frustrated," the once-trailblazing Thomas says before breaking down in tears in the emotional episode that aired Saturday on the Oprah Winfrey Network.
The two-time U.S. national champion and 1988 Olympic bronze medalist turned to the renowned life coach after "crippling life challenges" from two divorces left her family broke and forced her to shut down her medical practice in Virginia.
A desperate GoFundMe page she started about 10 months ago failed to raise even a quarter of what she had hoped.
Jonathan Fickies\/Getty Images for Stargames Debi Thomas skates during The Caesars Tribute in 2010 in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Enlarge JEROME DELAY\/AFP\/Getty Images Debi Thomas performs at the women's competition in 1988 in Calgary at the Winter Olympic Games. Enlarge Debi Thomas skates during The Caesars Tribute in 2010 in Atlantic City, New Jersey in the photo on the left. She performs at the women's competition in 1988 in Calgary at the Winter Olympic Games in the photo on the right.
Thomas is now living in a run-down mobile home in the Appalachian Mountains with her fiancé, who has admitted to having alcohol and anger issues, and his two children. She lost custody of her 13-year-old son.
"You got to a point where you couldn't afford to do anything other than live in a trailer. Is that what I'm hearing you say?" Vanzant asks before ripping into Thomas for only feeling "frustrated" at her heartbreaking circumstances.
"Not sad, not angry, not ashamed?" the TV host asks.
"No," Thomas responds.
Oprah Fallen Olympic skater Debi Thomas breaks down as she asks life coach Iyanla Vanzant to help turn her life around.
"Not guilty that you've got a man, two kids and a bedbug infestation in a trailer," Vanzant says. "Frustration is what you feel? Nothing else?"
Thomas starts to cry and shakes her head as Vanzant digs deeper, according to a short clip.
"This is what I know: You're living in a trailer in the Appalachian Mountains and your son ain't with you!" she shouts. "You're raising somebody else's children! So, you can tell me whatever you want to tell me. Telling yourself the truth is important."
The Poughkeepsie, New York native pursued a medical degree after graduating from Stanford University in 1991 and soon after became an orthopedic surgeon.
Debi Thomas\/via GoFundMe Debi Thomas and her fiance, Jamie Looney, started a GoFundMe page to ask fans for help fixing their financial struggles.
Thomas lays out a list of ambitious prospective projects she had hoped to complete in the fundraising page that collected about $2,000 out of the $10,000 goal. One of her plans was to star in a reality TV show.
"What we need now is help keeping our heads above water until we can make our dreams a reality," she pleads in a video posted on the GoFundMe page.
The episode is aired on Saturday at 9 p.m.
mchan@nydailynews.com

Generated :
(CNN) - Housewife Tia Thomaz knows not to give the comfort of her four-bedroom duplex penthouse in Alameda, California where Olympic skater Debi Thomas is living.
Thomas, 29, is renting a tiny room in the second-floor apartments she shares with boyfriend Nathan Szavar-Kiez. She says she takes only boxes for deliveries to help pay her rent. But in the trailer home for his basketball training, Thomas keeps it in in the hopes it will miraculously end up working.
"Any concerns?" she asks her boyfriend, Alex Kogan. "I’m not going to hide it under the bed, coming up with something to make myself get all wet."
But Jamie Foxx, an athlete recovering from debilitating drug addiction and a heroin addict, has already been able to find plenty of stuff to drink off the limited resources Thomas has allotted to making ends meet. Thomas uses a home gym and special equipment as a way to "speed things up."
It's all part of a reality show about Thomas - full-time professional on the horizon: "Crackmaster" on MTV. The show launches Nov. 20 with the week's most promising Olympian in the game George "Dance Moms" Clark, who also was part of American gymnastics Team USA.
Thomas said she’s only just started adjusting to "Crackmaster," but she's already getting used to the "petty" reality series.
"I was used to being on my own, but I'm pretty happy where I am now," she said. "If I had to do something I would have … super short circuits."
