Title : Hot air balloon crash in Texas kills all 16 passengers

Original :
A hot air balloon carrying 16 people caught on fire and crashed in central Texas Saturday — killing everyone on board — in the worst such accident in American history.
The balloon was consumed by a giant fireball before it plummeted to the ground in a remote pasture near Lockhart about 7:30 a.m., authorities and witnesses said.
“It does not appear at this time that there were any survivors of the crash,” the Caldwell County Sheriff’s Office said in a statement.
The Texas Department of Public Safety later confirmed that the pilot and 15 passengers were killed.
Hot-air balloon handler falls to death in ‘freak accident’
The balloon went down over farmland that hosts a row of soaring, high-capacity transmission lines reaching about five stories into the sky.
Investigators survey the wreckage of a downed hot air balloon in Texas. (BBC)
Witness Margaret Wylie said she first heard popping noises outside her home about 30 miles south of Austin. Then she heard a “whooshing” sound.
“The next thing I knew, I saw a big fireball went up, and you’re just praying that whoever is in there got out on time,” she told the Austin American Statesman.
“I used to think I wanted to go up in one, but after this, I don’t think so,” Wylie added. “I may be 66 years old, but I want to live a little bit longer.”
SEE IT: Pig-shaped hot air balloon crashes at Utah festival
Joe Gonzales was driving with his wife Erika when they spotted the balloon hovering over a tree line and barely moving.
Skip Nichols has been identified as the pilot of the doomed balloon. (facebook)
“The flame was really bright like they were trying to go up,” Gonzales said.
“I’d never seen one like that with that many people. It just didn’t look right.”
Authorities confirmed the balloon was operated by Heart of Texas Hot Air Balloon Rides.
The operator, which didn’t return a request for comment, says on its website that its balloons can transport as many as 24 people.
Authorities said there doesn't appear to be any survivors in the worst hot air balloon accident in U.S. history. (BBC)
No information on the victims was released — but friends identified the pilot of the balloon as Skip Nichols, 49.
Investigators with the National Transportation Safety Board were scouring the scene Saturday afternoon. The FBI will also assist in collecting evidence, authorities said.
“It’s much like a crime scene,” said Eric Grosof, of the NTSB. “You only get one chance at it so you have got to do it right.”
The crash came about two years after the NTSB warned of the “high number of fatalities in a single air tour balloon accident” if federal officials failed to adopt stricter regulations.
Police cars block access to the site where a hot air balloon crashed early Saturday. (James Vertuno\/AP)
The safety board wanted balloon operators to be subjected to the same oversight as private airplane and helicopter companies.
But the Federal Aviation Administration formally rejected the recommendations. “Since the amount of ballooning is so low, the FAA believes the risk posed to all pilots and participants is also low,” the FAA ruled, according to the Austin American Statesman.
The initial 911 call came in at 7:44 a.m. as a possible vehicle accident.
“When the emergency responders and the sheriff’s office arrive on the scene it was apparent that the reported fire was the basket portion of a hot air balloon,” Caldwell County Sheriff Daniel Law said in a statement.
Investigators surround the scene in a field near Lockhart, Texas, where a hot air balloon crashed. (Ralph Barrera\/AP)
“Investigators are determining the number and the identities of victims at this time.”
The previous worst balloon accident in the U.S. took place in Aug. 1993 near Aspen, Colo., when a balloon hit power lines severing the basket.
It plummeted more than 100 feet to the ground, killing all six people aboard.
The worst hot air balloon crash in history, in February 2013 in Luxor, Egypt, claimed 19 lives.
Texas Gov. Gregg Abbott extended his condolences to the victims of the latest crash.
“Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families, as well as the Lockhart community,” he said in a statement.

Generated :
Crews of a hot air balloon that crashed in western Texas on Monday killed all of the 16 people on board and killed 11 others, according to television footage obtained by authorities.
The Texas A&M University student-owned balloon was traveling from Knoxville, Tennessee, to Wichita Falls, Texas, when it crashed about 40 minutes after takeoff, authorities and officials said.
The hot air balloon appeared to have bounced off the underside of the balloon before leaving a trail of flames and impact.
The passengers were airlifted to Baylor University Medical Center in Austin.
The single-engine balloon, dubbed "Fox Baller," burned in Texas on Monday.
The American Medical Response medical evacuation centre is set to reopen Wednesday.
"Thanks to the amazing, dedicated, and professional emergency responders on scene to save the lives of all those involved. Thanks to those who have given their lives for being to watch over our fellow heroes," Rick Gaines, CEO of American Medical Response, said in a statement.
The plane went down about half a mile from the crash site, about a mile from the doctors' office.
An ESPN website and Houston Chronicle report that the Alamo Hotshot flight was considered top aviation edriest, compared to other U.S. hangars.
It was operated by the Oak Ridge National Laboratory and was carrying items such as digital cameras and heavy shoes. A video of the investigation by NBC affiliate WTVD showed flames spreading towards the wings of the balloon as the plane soared over land, as people could be seen taking off and setting up their parachute.
"All the V-shaped contours of the balloon went through the seconds of fire. Then it hit the ground on a scale that looks bigger than life," Alamo spokesman Brandon McMullen told WAMU.
A much smaller balloon from a nearby facility, "Holiday Belling" from the Manchester International Airport, toppled over, but officials said neither involved the larger balloon."
"I think we will figure out the reasons and go with the ruling," Gaines said, adding that the injured were being treated at a local hospital.
Authorities have not said what triggered the balloon to fall in land. They said the balloon caused just two minor injuries.
Emergency crews responded to the crash after the TV report aired.
A "Power Changer" balloon was filling up at a nearby gas station, which was manned by a volunteer who met with television crews, according to NBC affiliate WAMU.
NBC affiliate KTVT said the balloon attempted to roll over and flipped over without landing.
(Reporting by Keith Coffman in Denver; Editing by Adam Lise and Cynthia Osterman)
