Title : LeBron James tells Team USA that he will not play in the Rio Olympics

Original :
LeBron James might be the best player in the world, but the Cleveland Cavaliers star will not prove that on a world stage this summer. James reportedly informed Team USA he will not take part in this summer’s Olympics, becoming the latest NBA superstar to skip the Rio Games.
James joins Stephen Curry, Russell Westbrook, Kawhi Leonard and Chris Paul as some of the biggest names opting out of Team USA this summer.
"I could use the rest," James told Ceveland.com.
James has been a staple for Team USA for much of his professional career, helping the U.S. win two gold medals and a bronze in three Olympics.
James just led the Cavs to their first NBA title, ending Cleveland’s 52-year drought of professional titles. He became the first player to lead both teams in points, rebounds, assists, steals and blocks in a playoff series.
And it appears Team USA won’t have Gordon Hayward either. The Jazz forward turned down an offer to play for the U.S., according to the Deseret News.
While players have cited rest and recovery from injuries as reasons to skip the Summer Games, there are growing concerns about the potential health hazards of the water in Rio, as well as the Zika virus.

Generated :
If you take a moment, watch here.
LeBron James actually spoke with Team USA chairman Chip Anderson Wednesday night about his doubts about the Olympic bid for the 2016 Games. During his performance, the Cleveland Cavaliers star made his view known:
DeMarcus Cousins, with the Nuggets. He's excited about the Olympics. But I'm not gonna be here.
James didn't give an answer — please don't worry, gold medalist before us all.
We're moving up, thanks, LeBron.
"Well, I think you're gonna see some players at some point, it's great," Anderson told Anderson. "Let's see."
While LeBron, like everyone else in the group, isn't going to play in the 2016 Olympics, it could be an option for others as well — certainly in James' case. But in Anderson's mind, with the outcome of the 2017 NBA season never in doubt, and a player like James dominating the league, some want to see LeBron go a little bit outside of the NBA to get a shot at representing the USA.
One thing is for sure, the strategy isn't controversial, it's a stance that is hard to change with the last few games, as well as a message James was blasting out on social media.
