Title : Bigamist wife, 35, exposed after her hubby saw pics of her new wedding on FACEBOOK
 
Original : 
Carer Lisa Everard, of Chepstow, pleaded guilty to one count of bigamy after marrying another man
Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
A BIGAMIST wife was caught out after her shocked husband spotted her new wedding pictures on Facebook.
Wales News Service 3 Mother-of-four Lisa Everard was caught out after posting her wedding pictures on Facebook
Cardiff Crown Court heard the Everards were living together in the same house and were legally married when she walked down the aisle with her new “husband”.
Mum-of-four Lisa lied to her legal husband of fours years that the picture was her being a bridesmaid at a friend’s wedding and he had nothing to worry about.
But suspicious husband Elliott checked the marriage records at the register office to discover the truth – that she had illegally married her secret lover Michael Hughes.
Prosecutor Mark Battrick said: “Mr Everard was devastated. He was distraught at what he had seen.
“He described feeling numb and said his world had turned upside down.”
The court heard Everard then confessed to her bigamy – and left their large country home to move into a terraced former council house with Mr Hughes.
Elliott Everard/Twitter/Wales News Service 3 Elliott Everard was devastated to see the pictures online
Peter Donnison, defending, said Everard had no previous convictions and added her new husband Mr Hughes is sticking by her.
He told the court Everard said the relationship with her husband was over “some years prior to her re-marrying”.
The court heard her salesman husband had lost a stone in weight after discovering his wife’s second wedding in July this year.
The judge said the impact on Mr Everard was not just emotional but financial, as he was providing for their two children, aged two and three, by himself. Lisa also has two children from a previous marriage.
related stories 'my husband conned me from the start' Bride shopped bigamist groom to cops after discovering secret of his second wife in the loft OUR BIG-AMIST DAY Dad exposed as a bigamist after his first wife saw photos of his second wedding on Facebook THE LOVE RAT Bigamist who stole from his new wife's family while still married to ANOTHER woman is jailed REVEALED Former UKIP councillor is a BIGAMIST who faked an illustrious military career to win votes bigamist’S CRUEL RUSE Heartless husband dumped his wife in a CARE HOME so he could marry his new Russian partner - on their wedding anniversary
Judge Philip Harris-Jenkins said: “You should have bore all of that in mind before you acted in the selfish way that you did.
“This was not an act of naivety. This was a deception.”
The court heard Lisa Everard had suffered post natal depression after the birth of her youngest child.
Carer Everard, of Chepstow, Gwent, pleaded guilty to one count of bigamy.
But the judge spared her prison by saying it was not in the public interest to impose an immediate custodial sentence
Wales News Service 3 The Everards lived together in their home when Lisa married another man
Instead, Lisa was made the subject of a rehabilitation requirement and she will have to carry out 150 hours of unpaid work.
After the hearing Mr Everard’s father, John, 67, said: “It’s such a sensitive issue for Elliott and for us as a family.
“Their children are usually here with us and it’s been very hard on my son but we are helping him through it.
“Lisa’s third and latest marriage is now legally void. So she and Elliott will have to divorce if she wants to do it properly.”
After walking free, Lisa Everard said: “I have been through enough now.

Generated : 
A THIRD married couple have exposed the huge, intimate photos of their first anniversary, months after they married.
The father of two travelled to Newcastle last month to see each other for the first time since she suffered a miscarriage in July last year, The Sun Online can reveal.
News Group Newspapers Ltd 4 The family's first anniversary came in February, but the mother-of-two was disgusted
News Group Newspapers Ltd 4 The family got upset when it was revealed she suffered a miscarriage
But it was when they traveled to Newcastle last month to see each other for the first time since they married two years ago that the worrying stories started to set in.
Mrs Malone, 35, the wife of Chris, 32, said: "I'm in really shock, as I've been experiencing a lot of those things, and being into the wedding party, which I hadn't, at one point things firmed up to about 8pm and I was emailing everyone, and I just texted my dad about four or five minutes later.
"If you've been following this story, you've seen the pictures of my face, and it was such a big surprise to me. I am quite a little scared.
"That was it. I didn't realise the moment that it was happening was long. So I was very confused.
The Sun Online 4 The father was disgusted when it was revealed that the images of the wedding pictured the couple's first anniversary
"That night I didn't turn up. I didn't know if I had spoken to my dad or made a phone call.
"For an hour or so I didn't do anything. My dad didn't know about it, but it was something I had to talk to his office about. He said: 'I can't even talk to you, because you've been through everything, and this was something I expected and promised' - and I knew I couldn't."
Mrs Malone, who also runs a baking business, posted the pictures of the day on Twitter with the caption: "I can't believe it! I'm so happy my little girl is here with me.. really happy for her.
RELATED STORIES HISTORY FLUTTER George Michael's 'safe place' after four and a half million hits is found in a tiny box near his grave SPIRITED RIDDLE, OR ARE YOU IS WOES? Suspected Scientologists enjoy an ALL OVERCATASTER's footway world show as tourists observe Universal Studios Universal rider 'I CAN'T DESERVE THIS' Disney child star killed in car crash after terrifying playground ride TWISTED FEARS Police 'suspicious SUSPECT' DASH Pics take centre stage as teachers terrorise men suspected of 'exploding' 'DEVELOPED LOVE' Kiss of sharks can release thousands of sperm if revealed first
Mrs Malone became worried after discovering the pictures had been taken by a man who was living in the company of his estranged wife.
Towers Miss Phelps's partner, real name Devon Jackson, said: "When the picture was taken of our wedding week I'm completely shocked - we didn't realise we'd put the pictures to social media in the first place.
"It was just a big shock. It was the first time she'd been watching me - and watching me worrying, and I can't even imagine how badly she'd been hurt."
"The picture I'd taken of her was my son's baby photos. She loves everything about us. She brings us all together. She's very completely different from what I'd thought, so we need to send her the best wishes she can.
"There's no words can explain this! This isn't our first in our history."
Mr Phelps added: "I've seen the pictures of her and noticed the dress she's wearing....I'm glad she wasn't going to stay out there all night."
