Title : Black Friday fever: police deal with desperate shoppers

Original :
Black Friday shopping fever has engulfed the UK, with fights breaking out between bargain-hunting shoppers, stores forced to close, and retailers’ websites crashing as shoppers scrambled to grab discounted goods.
Police were called to at least 16 Tesco stores around the country after staff were overwhelmed by 500-strong crowds battling over discounted TVs, kitchen goods and clothing. The scenes led one senior police officer to call on shoppers to ask themselves: “What on Earth was I doing?”
A number of stores were closed after fights broke out between shoppers trying to get their hands on sale stock. A police spokesman said a woman was injured at a Tesco store in Stretford, Manchester, “after being hit by a falling television”.
expand Shoppers carry bargains from the Asda store in Blyth, Northumberland. Photograph: Raoul Dixon /North News & Pictures Ltd
A man was arrested on suspicion of assault at a Tesco store in Salford. Greater Manchester police used their Twitter feed to urge customers to keep calm.
Many shoppers were determined to bag a bargain, regardless of what it was. Louise Haggerty, a hairdresser and waitress shopping at 1am at a Sainsbury’s in north-east London, said: “I got a Dyson but I don’t even know if I want it. I just picked it up.” The 56-year-old said she had wanted a new flatscreen TV, “but so many people pushed in the queue, we didn’t have a chance. People were behaving like animals, it was horrible.”
At the same store, Andy Blackett, 30, an estate agent, had two trolleys full of bargains. “I got two coffee makers, two tablets, two TVs and a stereo,” he said. “I couldn’t tell you the prices, but I know they’re bargains.”
The Black Friday extravaganza was imported from the US only two years ago but has captured the imagination of both retailers and shoppers. Visa Europe estimated that more than £500m would be piled on to its cards during the sale period.
Retail worker Shaun Thompson said he saw a member of staff with a black eye after a disturbance at Tesco in Stretford. The 21-year-old, who went to the store to buy a set of headphones, said about 1,000 people descended on the store. “People were fighting with each other, fighting over TVs,” he said. “I have never seen anything like it in my life. It was quite scary.”
expand A shopper at the Asda store in Wembley. Photograph: David Parry/PA
There were also disturbances in Scotland, with stores in Glasgow and Dundee closed by police. Officers were also called to Cheshunt, the Hertfordshire town which is home to Tesco’s head office, where there were two assaults. A woman in her late 60s sustained a cut to her leg and a woman in her 70s suffered hand injuries.
Asda drafted in 2,000 extra staff, including security guards, to help manage the sale and it said most shoppers had queued in an orderly fashion.
By mid-afternoon, the supermarket said it had rung up 2m sales since 8am, making it the busiest single trading day of the year so far. It sold more than 8,000 TVs in first hour, and more than 10,000 tablets in the first two hours.
Sir Peter Fahy, the chief constable of Greater Manchester, blamed retailers for the mayhem: “The events of last night were totally predictable and I am disappointed that stores did not have sufficient security staff on duty.
“This created situations where we had to deal with crushing, disorder and disputes between customers. It does not help that this was in the early hours, when police resources are already stretched.”
Ian Hopkins, Greater Manchester deputy chief constable, said the scenes at some Tesco stores were “akin to mini-riot”, with people trampling on each other. The fallout included three arrests and a shopper with a broken wrist. A security guard was also punched. Hopkins said: “People need to take a long, hard look at themselves and ask, what on Earth was I doing?”
Hopkins had spoken to Tesco senior executives earlier and told them the events were predictable and the force’s “scarce resources should not be used to bail out stores when they’ve not planned effectively”.
The websites of several big retailers including Currys, John Lewis and Tesco struggled to cope with demand on Thursday night and throughoutFriday. At 10pm on Thursday, the Currys website was showing a queue of more than 70,000 people trying to get in, even though special-offer TVs and electrical gadgets were not available until 8am the next day.
Jon Copestake, retail analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit, said it appeared that the number of people looking for bargains had taken everybody by surprise despite all the preparations. “From a retail perspective the frenzy of interest has mixed implications,” he said. “Take-up on sales today is likely to undermine the potential for purchases later in the Christmas shopping period. The waiting times and overloading of stores is also unlikely to be good for the reputations of the retailers involved.”
The number of shoppers on London’s Oxford Street was up nearly 20% on last year between 9am and midday, according to the New West End Company.
John Lewis said the number of visitors to its website between midnight and 6am was 30% up on Black Friday last year, with most logging on between 12am and 1am in a bid to get the best deals. Its fastest-selling deal was an Apple iPad mini at just under £200.
Internet retailer Very.co.uk said it was handling 30,000 orders per hour – a rate of eight a second, compared with a peak of three a second last year. The retailer said it was selling a £299 PS4 games console package every 0.75 seconds.
Currys said web traffic was five times higher than last year, with Samsung TVs, DeLonghi coffee machines, iPads, Bose Bluetooth speakers and Hotpoint washing machines most popular. Goods were going through the tills at a rate of eight sales every second.
Currys said the only problem with its website was “unprecedented demand” and that it had used a queue system to be fair to customers. “The deals are stonking, lots of customers getting great deals!” Currys said.
The trend for midnight surfing was confirmed by data from Postcode Anywhere which said the number of online visits was up nearly 40% between midnight and 1am, compared with the previous day. The highest number of night-time orders came from Birmingham, Belfast and Glasgow.
Deals worth fighting for
Sainsbury’s
Dyson Animal Vac from £319.99 to £159.99
Blaupunkt 40” TV from £299.99 to £149.99
Asda
Polaroid 40” LED TV from £219 to £139
Samsung Galaxy Note 8” from £249 to £149 Coleman 400 ATV 4X4 Quad Bike at £3,500, from £6,500 Little Tikes Playhouse £49, down from £99.99
Carphone Warehouse
£220 off a HTC One (M8) so there’s no upfront cost, plus £24.99 a month on contract.
Currys PC World
£80 off Apple MacBooks and iMacs
£400 off Samsung 55” LED TVs
John Lewis
Half-price Delonghi Prima Donna S Bean-to-Cup coffee machine, stainless steel at £514.45
£100 savings on Imacs and MacBooks
John Lewis 60JL9000 LED HD 1080p 3D Smart TV, 60” with Freeview HD & 2x 3D Glasses down £400 to £999
Debehams
Nespresso Chrome Citiz, £150 from £220
DKNY Delicious Night Eau de Parfum 50ml £24.50, down from £49
Toys R Us
MiP, £39.99, down from £79.99

Generated :
The new Black Friday - Black Saturday - can be a welcome surprise, a welcome revival for the UK retailers, especially online. Sales on both sites will officially run through the day Thursday, November 29, at 1am local time, but police officers are clear that demand is still high.
Of the 460 police-linked shops deployed to have hot stock, 170% of them are licensed. Only half are small office stations and an impressive 80% of the chains have felt they're at the centre of an unprecedented frenzy. However, like holiday excesses during one of the happiest years of your life, the details are most important.
The police are a phenomenally well organised organisation. Almost 60% of Christmas 2011 traffic took the pedestrian crossing in Nottingham by car between 6pm and 10pm. A turnout of 300,000 people showed that 95% of the centralised parking spaces were occupied. A third of traffic takeways were put up in the middle of the city, with half as many people calling an emergency service the following day.
Once emergency teams are in place, it's easy to expect the police could attend where most of the shopping is going. In that order of importance, the areas adjacent to the main roads between Nottingham and Trent are most likely to be deserted, with locations of the less footpaths - sadly such as Nottingham suburb shops - still seeing a predominantly black crowd.
One of the most important measures has been to double police power from two and even three stations. Anyone wanting to test in Nottingham ahead of Black Friday is welcomed, irrespective of a recent government decision to increase the extent of police work in the city by 14%. Much of that increased enforcement strategy was launched in Nottingham as part of the economic stimulus package. This idea has resulted in a surge in people buying goods in Nottingham before the extra police can be felt. After all, a planned £22.5m investment in policing across the country already saved the city £22.4m last year.
Many local businesses who were initially reluctant to donate to the police are now responding enthusiastically. The Greater Nottingham Chamber of Commerce estimates that this has pushed 200 new businesses, 50 of which come from the Greater Manchester area, into opening their shops in the area. With more and more customers looking to pick up merchandise for Christmas, stores such as Giftshop are raising their flag on the sale. The Christmas season is proving a huge hit for people's cash.
In a modernised city like Nottingham, what were once strong businesses need in order to thrive or thrive alongside one of the best shops is now badly spooked. It's because many local businesses are now struggling for survival. The message here is that if business is good, it's good business. If not, you should ask why, and follow your gutting instinct.
