Title : High school football players fulfill teammate's dying wish
 
Original : 
High school senior Malik Sparkman's dying wish was fulfilled on Sunday as his teammates carried his coffin through the stadium tunnel at Coffee County High School in Douglas, Georgia. It was the same tunnel he once ran through before the school's football games.
Sadly, the 18-year-old senior lost his battle with kidney cancer last week, but before he died, he asked his teammates to carry his coffin through the tunnel one last time. According to WSB-TV, more than 500 friends and family members showed up to pay their respects.
See also: High school seniors donate class trip money to principal with cancer
"He always said he wasn't ever gonna give up and God has him,” Tia Williams, Sparkman's girlfriend, told WSB. “He was a fighter."
When asked about Sparkman's teammates, Williams said, "They're hanging in there as a team. It brought their team closer. They're strong. They did take it hard at the funeral, but they know he's not suffering anymore."
"He always said he wasn't ever gonna give up and God has him,” Tia Williams said of her boyfriend. “He was a fighter."(Credit: WSB-TV) Posted by KTLA 5 News on Thursday, May 28, 2015
Sparkman, who was a linebacker for the Coffee County Trojans, was diagnosed with kidney cancer last year. He was being recruited by Florida State and was supposed to graduate this year.
The team has additional plans to honor Sparkman during next year's season.
Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.

Generated : 
On Saturday, 3.5 young men went football.
These boys were elected to the University of Illinois and didn't see eye to eye on campus. Their goal was to receive a scholarship to attend the same school.
We live in a world where fans can actually pay for their tickets to shows and on weekends, "party high schoolers" are pulling up at sporting events to watch college football games.
High school football guys from southwest Illinois knew their dream.
To represent Illinois State University was also a dream come true for 5-year-old Jesse "Mann" Chlute. Jesse's mom said, "There's so many high school football players out there and I wanted him to get here and get started."
Jesse to be the ultimate High School football player @UillDB on campus. No family history needed in our school. pic.twitter.com/XhCgweBDUs — Illinois State University (@IllinoisState) May 29, 2015
Jesse hit his first senior pass. He ended up catching on to the senior pass and went on to score on a 2nd-and-1 near the goal line. He then doubled the team’s touchdown total, 21-0.
Video provided by Jesse's college win. Thanks to the Illinois State University. pic.twitter.com/QL7xWBqWjz — Illinois State University (@IllinoisState) May 29, 2015
Jesse, who had his first field goal in football, told his dad, "I’m gonna keep doing whatever the coaches call it, I’m gonna keep playing football and try to contribute to the team."
He plans to help with the application process.
There are many schools out there that will take a first-year student.
Here are all the high school players and their family's wishes:
