Title : The St. Louis Rams donated tickets to high school football players in Ferguson
 
Original : 
In a small attempt to brighten up the lives of some teenagers whose lives have been affected by the situation in Ferguson, Missouri the St. Louis Rams donated tickets to last weekend’s preseason game against the Green Bay Packers according MMQB.com’s Robert Klemko.
From SI.com:
Watching the violence over Michael Brown’s killing unfold in Ferguson last week, a Rams staffer thought of the high schoolers, specifically, the boys who are supposed to play in their first football game of the season this weekend. Rams manager of fan development & alumni relations Kyle Eversgerd put in a call to coaches at McCluer High, McCluer North and McCluer South; there would be 75 free tickets awaiting each team if they chose to come to Saturday’s preseason game at the Edward Jones Dome.
Schools in the Ferguson-Florissant School District were closed on Monday due to the unrest. A spokesperson for the Rams told For The Win that the tickets were provided to the head coaches, so they were not sure how many students were able to attend the game.
(Thanks to SI.com for sharing)

Generated : 
MELBOURNE, Australia — The St. Louis Rams donated a few tickets to an all-time fan favorite who died under mysterious circumstances in 2014.
The two tickets, which were purchased on Sunday from Stacy Harte, a high school football fan from St. Louis, appeared to have been saved after one incident: the team had 3.9 miles of empty parking spots on its sideline after its regular Sunday game against the Washington Redskins. The Post, which broke the story, said at the time that the late Robert Griffin III had been wearing an inner tube – a device that inserts a wire into nosehole bags – around the team’s locker room locker room. The Rams then started dropping tickets to Griffin’s favorite team, the Los Angeles Rams.
Melbourn says now the Rams have donated a total of 10 tickets to each high school team to donate to Griffin’s memorial foundation, at a price of C$1,500 ($1,619). But this isn’t the first time the St. Louis Rams have donated tickets to high school football players.
LA Galaxy fans donated their seats and jerseys to the Rams in 2010, for instance. So did the Los Angeles Fringe Fringe, the quasi-reality show supported by that friend of two losers in the same city.
Blake Bortles also was a victim of last weekend’s deadly, contentious, racially charged shooting in Ferguson in which two people were fatally shot by a white policeman.
