Title : Best Black Friday deals on iPhone 7, Galaxy S7, FitBit, and the Apple Watch
 
Original : 
Retailers are offering decent incentives and deals for smartphones and wearables, most notably the iPhone 7, Galaxy S7, Fitbit wearable, and the Apple Watch. The deals typically run from Nov. 24 through to the 25 ,26, or 27 depending on the retailer.
iPhone 7:
Best Buy will give you a gift card for the iPhone 7 (not the larger Plus model) ranging between $100 and $250, depending on which iPhone 7 model you get. The 256GB model can get you a $250 Best Buy gift card, the 32GB and 128GB iPhone 7 are eligible for $100 gift cards.
The offer is valid if the phone is purchased and activated on Verizon Device Payment, AT&T Next, or Sprint 24-Month Installment.
APPLE MAKES ITS RETURN TO BLACK FRIDAY, TEASES ONE-DAY SALE
Target is making a similar offer, though the Target gift card includes both the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus. Walmart includes other (earlier) iPhone models beyond the iPhone 7 in its gift card offerings.
T-Mobile is offering a 32GB iPhone 7 or 7 Plus for free if you trade in a paid-off smartphone. But the model you’re trading in must be a recent model, such as an iPhone 6s, 6s Plus or Samsung Galaxy S6 or S6 Edge. And customers have to sign up with T-Mobile for 24 months on T-Mobile One or a Simple Choice plan in order to get credit for the free phone.
iPhone SE:
iPhone SE: Apple’s smallest iPhone with a 4-inch display. Best Buy’s in-store offer starts at $9.99/month for 24 months, with total savings of $160, according to Best Buy. The online offer is a $160 gift card with purchase and activation of iPhone SE with a monthly installment plan.
Samsung Galaxy S7:
At Best Buy in-store, Samsung’s flagship phone comes with gift card offers up to $450. To get the $450 in gift cards you must trade in a working smartphone and purchase and activate the Samsung Galaxy S7 or S7 Edge with monthly installment plan from Verizon, AT&T or Sprint.
APPLE JUST PATENTED AN iPHONE THAT CLIPS TO YOUR CLOTHES
At Sprint, if you buy one Galaxy S7 you get another one free. Like other deals, the first S7 must be purchased on a 24-month plan.
Fitbit wearable:
Fitbit, the best-selling fitness wearable line, is getting special treatment from Fitbit’s own site. Deals directly from Fitbit include the Fitbit Charge 2, dropping to $129.95 from the regular price of $149.95. The Fitbit Alta will get reduced to $99.95 from the regular price of $129.95.
Apple Watch:
Apple Watch deals are not widespread but Target is offering a deal on the Watch Series 1, as is Best Buy. (We won’t know until Friday whether Apple has any deals lined up.)
HERE ARE SOME OF THE BEST BLACK FRIDAY DEALS ON WINDOWS LAPTOPS, MACBOOKS
At Target, the Apple Watch 1 starts at $198, usually $270, a saving of $72. At Best Buy, the Apple Watch 1 will be $50 off, starting $219.99.

Generated : 
It was just 10 minutes ago that Apple posted the number one Black Friday product sale on its website. Since then, both the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus have been selling like crazy, and the Apple Watch was hitting stores just before midnight this morning.
From the best Black Friday deals to the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus, FOX Business joined FOX Business Director Bill O’Reilly to take a look at the best Black Friday deals and watch the best iPhone 7s and 8 Plus sale happen on the website. View As: One Page Slides
Want to check out the iPhone 8 sale? The official price is $865. The deal is happening just around the hour for as low as $69. No need to go to Apple store. Just check out the deal online.
With the iPhone 8 sale, you'll need to go to the Apple store or open a store in your local area to get the iPhone 8 sale. Look for the stock quote on the link above and then go to a store on the same date and you'll get the price starting at $67.
You can't do a physical iPhone 6S or the iPhone 6S Plus; there are other retailers to choose from for that. We've pulled out the store locations that best match your city and the phone. Go to the links below.
Verizon
Apple Store (TSX:VZ)
Xiaomi (OTCPK:XIAF)
Amazon
Cadillac
Swamp Research
EBay
MasterCard
AT&T
King Digital
Fitbit
ShopOS
Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN)
Apple’s Best Black Friday Deals ...
This Black Friday, a Black Friday Sale, is taking place on Sunday, November 24. And while prices are on the higher end of the market, we don't have to compare them.
