Title : Family of S.I. teen hazed during football camp sues for $4.2M
 
Original : 
The family of a Staten Island high school student who they say was assaulted, called a racial epithet, shot in the leg with a BB gun and had a penis drawn on his face last summer when he was on a school trip to a football camp is suing the city for $4.2 million.
In court papers, the family says their son — now entering his sophomore year at Susan E. Wagner High School — was the target of a week-long hazing spree by upperclassmen at Camp Pontiac in Columbia County where he was attacked physically, verbally, mentally and psychologically.
"It's my understanding that this was par for the course" at Wagner's annual football camp excursion, the family's attorney Richard Washington said Friday.
Washington faults the Department of Education for lax supervision, saying that only four adult coaches accompanied the 25 young men to the camp and none of the adults were assigned to the cabins where the hazing spree continued unabated for a week for both his client and other incoming freshmen.
Wis. 9-year-old shot in the face with BB gun at lemonade stand
Court papers say that over several days in August, the boy, who is identified only by his initials, was hit by in the stomach with a bag of golf balls, clobbered with a broomstick, called a 'n----r,' exposed naked in the shower, shot in the leg with a BB gun, and while he slept, had a penis drawn on his face — which was then photographed.
Washington said Wagner administrators initially responded to parents' complaints by suspending last fall's entire football program but backed down when they were sued.
Instead, they disciplined individual students at the camp — including Washington’s client, whom they accused of having participated in the hazing of another student.
Washington denied the charge, which he said got his client a 60-day suspension and continues to harm his academic record.
A Law Department spokesman said, "We will review the complaint."

Generated : 
The family of a 3-year-old Staten Island boy who was pushed during a football camp in Western New York Thursday said the camp instructor’s ex-wife was the source of the girl’s urine and that her son was also beaten.
The Long Island family of Eric Rogers, 2, said that the coaches from Track-O-rama Football League Park in the resort town were also the sources of the girl’s blood.
Jenn Friedman, the NYPD mother, said her son lost two teeth and was crying Friday when she told her about her son’s beating at the accident.
She said that she went to school with the boy but she told her to treat him to pizza instead.
“She told me what happened. She started crying. I came out after school and she started screaming,” Friedman said.
Added her son, “She came to me and screamed and then my husband saw me try to talk to my son.”
She then went to the hospital and asked the judge for a $4.2 million judgment to be paid to a child’s parents.
The school spokesman did not return requests for comment Friday.
Police records show that Rogers’s first arrest came in August 2011. He pleaded guilty in December 2014 to five counts of tampering with evidence and two counts of grand larceny. He was sentenced to 20 years to life in prison.
Those charges were dropped when he completed a mandatory 80-day drug and alcohol evaluation and was released a few days before he turned 21.
At his sentencing hearing in December, Rogers claimed he had “excessive drinking,” but the judge disagreed, finding the teen in a “very high state of intoxication.”
Rogers faced five felony charges in connection with the September 2010 crash that killed 1-year-old Asher, of Nazareth, whose grandparents were celebrating their 50th wedding anniversary.
Donald Rogers is due back in court Aug. 4.
