Title : 12-year-old girl barred from football team due to worries of ‘impure thoughts’
 
Original : 
All Maddy Paige wants to do is play football.
But she can’t for one reason. She’s a girl.
Paige, a 12-year-old from Locust Grove, Ga., was the starting defensive tackle for her sixth grade football team at Strong Rock Christian School. Last week, Paige was informed that she would not be allowed to compete next year.
School CEO Patrick Stuart implemented a policy that states, “Middle school girls play girls’ sports and middle school boys play boys’ sports.”
“[Stuart] told me students are coming of age and the boys will have impure thoughts and urges and they have the locker room talk and it’s not appropriate for girls to hear,” Paige’s mother, Cassy Blythe, told USA TODAY Sports. “Then he said he prayed about it and he really feels that there’s not supposed to be mixing of the genders. They need to be kept separate.”
Blythe said when Paige joined the football team, head coach Jimmy Higginbotham welcomed her with open arms and before the first practice, made it clear he’d treat her like everyone else.
Blythe was hesitant to let her daughter play, but after a few practices, Paige would run to the car with a big smile.
“I’d ask her, ‘What are you doing hitting people out there?” Blythe said. “And she said, ‘Because I’m a defensive tackle!’ I looked at coach and was like, ‘Are you serious?’ And he said, ‘Girl can hit.’”
Paige, who recorded four sacks last year, said her best friends are on the team and will miss the camaraderie.
“It’s really sad knowing I won’t be able to have as much fun as I did last year,” Paige said.
School administrators issued the following statement concerning Paige’s removal from the team:
“The Strong Rock Christian School leadership and administration fully stand behind the school’s policy. We believe this policy promotes a safe and fair environment for athletic competition and is in the best interest of all Strong Rock students and families.
“Thank you for your continued prayers and support of our school.”
Strong Rock declined further comment.
Blythe said they’ve started exploring other options for education. Paige could transfer to another school that will allow her to play football, or she could stay at Strong Rock and play on a recreational team.
For now, Paige and her mother have started a Facebook campaign called “Let Her Play” in support of female athletes and gender equality. The page has over 23,000 likes in one week.

Generated : 
*POCATELLO, Idaho (KIFI/KIDK) — A 12-year-old girl has become the latest East Falls elementary school student to take the school’s obscenity and violence-related policy seriously.
15-year-old Melody Smith was banned from a football team, while 8-year-old Nick Jr. was barred from a state school and 3-year-old Jacob Harris was barred from the North Shore Arts School.
The problem is that the girls told 11-year-old Melody that she had been told by parents not to participate in a school day-out sporting event. They also allegedly told Melody to keep her hands away from her mother.
“All my life I’ve been asking her: ‘Where are the laws? Where are you drawing the lines?’ She said she was protecting herself and her family, but now her parents have been insisting that she be banned,” one of Melody’s parents told ABC News.
A sixth grade teacher told the school that the party wouldn’t be held to discuss social issues. The school district, like other Idaho districts, had not taken any action, but it has taken social media into consideration. A letter was sent out to parents.
According to Melody’s mother, Melody has been in contact with the teachers at North Shore, she is frightened for her safety.
“She calls friends, wants to be a teacher. She tries to reassure them. They’re worried. She is frustrated, and her parents are concerned,” the parent added.
The girl’s aunt said they called the school and complained about using social media as a forum to reinforce stereotypes. The parents called an administrator but the administrator refused to resign and Melody responded with threats of violence, a threat of police investigating her claims. The girl later wrote a letter to the principal.
The letter read:
I am angry & disappointed at the loud, colorful insults, threats, and tantrums that monolithic bullies consistently use against this 6 year old girl who has been having this awesome week of fun! Her parents have made me an indelible part of their lives and I love her dearly and I sincerely hope she gets used to me now as a mom, sister and teacher! My daughter is my 15 best friend and I will not allow her to see me fall apart and ruin my family life,and move on from it. I am deeply disappointed by this hate of mine from her classmates, nieces & nephews. However, my daughter can move forward! I will get used to not having to police my daughter and have no further interaction with her. She will be able to drop tantrums & scream & fight NO MORE!
KIDK contacted the school district and Melissa Smith, a parent at North Shore, issued a statement, accusing Melody of being among the “three Bibles that the perpetrators of violence have used at last Saturday’s school event.”
The teacher at North Shore, Sara Miller, clarified that the students weren’t “poking fun of the principal,” adding that the “most violent act was the violent one of the visitors himself, Jimmy Reads.”
Miller told KIDK, “This happened because [the students] talked about the particular group that was for the biggest sporting event, and they talked about the fact that they were trying to fight, these violent things. As a parent, we know that the kids are all upset. We don’t want to say anything bad. But they are the 3bibles that the perpetrators have put to use.”
School District officials offered a variety of reasons to prevent this from happening again. However, despite what Karen Krauss has said, the vast majority of students are just thrilled that Melody is not banned for school day sports.
Kris Krauss is a college student from Union, Iowa, and works as a columnist for two newspapers in Iowa. When contacted by KIDK, she agreed to put her comments out there because she wants to fight on behalf of Melody.
“She is glad that they understand their duty to protect her and did something to do so,” said Krauss. “She should not be in a situation like this.”
