Title : REI once again closing stores on Black Friday as #optoutside movement attracts larger following

Original :
Seattle-based outdoor retailer REI is sending another message this year to competitors and consumers who are looking for the big bucks and best deals on Black Friday — you should be outdoors.
For the second straight year, REI will #optoutside and close its 149 store locations on the traditionally huge U.S. shopping day after Thanksgiving. The co-op will pay all 12,287 of its employees to take the day off and enjoy the outdoors. Once again, shoppers are free to use REI’s website, but orders will not be processed until the following day.
This Black Friday @REI is closing to #OptOutside again. Will you go out with us? Retweet to receive a reminder. pic.twitter.com/FiCsQxVNfC — REI (@REI) October 21, 2016
“This year, REI will shut down on both Thanksgiving and Black Friday because fundamentally we believe that being outside makes us our best selves — healthier and happier, physically and mentally. But as a nation we’re still spending over 90 percent of our lives indoors and it’s a trend we need to tackle,” REI CEO Jerry Stritzke said in a news release. “I love that there is a community of people in this country who dedicate their lives to that mission, so together, we are asking America “Will you go out with us?”
REI, which has more than 6 million active members, is again promoting the #optoutside hashtag and a special landing page on its website will serve as a hub for users to encourage others to join the movement, find activities, and share adventures.
The success of last year’s effort, and the desire to make Thanksgiving more than just a jumping off point for holiday consumerism, has prompted more than 275 organizations to join in spreading the #optoutside message. According to REI, nonprofits and government organizations, such as the National Parks Service, as well as other companies, such as Subaru of America, Keen, Burton, Google and Upworthy, are already involved at launch.
“We believe a life outdoors is a life well lived,” Stritzke said during a speech to the Seattle Metro Chamber of Commerce on Sept. 30. He said REI had an “amazing response” to #optoutside in 2015.
“It was a statement that people found compelling, and it was a statement that I would say was born out of a solid set of Northwest values,” Stritzke said.

Generated :
Every sale happens when it’s time to move on, said Starbucks franchisee Dan Miller, who runs Super Chick. He said there hasn’t been one publicized release of REI’s Black Friday event on his store’s Black Friday video list.
While the store usually stays closed until before Halloween, about two weeks ago, Miller noticed a trend forming on Facebook. He tweeted the hashtag #OptOutside, referencing the term about 5 months earlier — “your Black Friday sale now.”
The trending hashtag jumped to 78,500 at 12:30 p.m. ET Friday. Its more than four-fold increase quickly emerged, and stayed there throughout Black Friday as well.
“The first promotion was on Oct. 28,” Miller said, explaining that he brokered a Black Friday sale that started just before the first shopping day and then expanded into many other retailers the following day. “People picked it up across Target and Walmart, so it was a momentum-building, positive idea for fans to move on.”
Same-store sales for the four-day event increased 47 percent, as well as 4 percent on grocery items, in the Seattle-Tri-County area, according to a press release. Miller said he is pleased with the positive trajectory.
“I think that was absolutely tremendous,” he said. “The stores were slow, and it was an everyday experience, but it was fun and new.”
Even after the early sale’s release, some of the area’s Best Buy chains were still in the early Black Friday shopping discussion. And, according to Seattle ShopRite spokesman Ed Machado, the only real Black Friday sales in the area happened in the midnight-to-midnight hours.
Restaurants were besieged with orders with Starbucks adding excess capacity for Black Friday and M. Night Shyamalan making his Transformers movie on 4th quarter Friday, according to Machado.
At other retailers, there has been a rise in demand for home clearance, home products and appliances on Black Friday.
Retailers that sell holiday items saw the largest holiday surge during the busiest time of the year in years, experts say. Annual retail sales for Black Friday and Cyber Monday nearly tripled compared to last year, according to the non-profit Retail Industry Leaders Association.
Looking back at the past 12 months, how many competitors have held back?
Even before President-elect Donald Trump’s election, retail sales were rising on Friday and Monday alone as people lined up to buy items for their entire list, according to Robert Salling, publisher of The Retail Industry Newsletter. The season ended in October.
“The holiday season is one of those periods that passes where you don’t have a really good business or a really good year and it’s ripe for the moment,” Salling said. “It’s an easy slog and there’s so much work that needs to be done in marketing and getting the word out in the stores.”
“Some of the pressure that retailers, for better or worse, are now facing is from individuals looking for great deals,” he said. “For the average shopper, a strong holiday season has little or no stress and it’s a slow work year.”
