Title : Wall Street Vet Rewrites Script For Entertainment Investment
 
Original : 
Amy Nauiokas is hardly the first veteran of Wall Street and venture finance to try her hand at the entertainment space. But red carpets and gifting lounges are definitely not her motivation. Rather, she sees a historic opportunity to apply the rigors of the financial world to the development of a viable portfolio. A recent change in the regulatory environment that will allow for a new level of public participation in financing is one area she is watching closely. (More on that later.)
Nauiokas’s production company, Archer Gray, has backed theatre, film and television projects including Broadway hit Once and Sundance Film Festival standout The Inevitable Defeat of Mister and Pete, which opens Oct. 11 and stars Jennifer Hudson and Jeffrey Wright, with music by Alicia Keys. Archer Gray, launched following Nauiokas’s run as managing director and CEO of Barclays Stockbrokers, the U.K.’s largest electronic retail broker. Prior to that, she held senior executive positions at Barclays Capital and Cantor Fitzgerald.
As the production company ramps up (it recently brought on seasoned independent film producer Anne Carey as president of production), Nauiokas is also maintaining a venture investment portfolio through a fund that was acquired by Anthemis Group SA in 2010. It includes a number of tech-focused companies well-positioned to disrupt mainstream industries, particularly in the financial and media space. One of her early investments was Zoopla, a U.K. real estate search service.
In a recent interview, I had a chance to ask Nauiokas about how her background informs her decision-making in the film and theatre world, and what she sees as the next game-changing element. Excerpts follow.
Q: Can you talk a little about how your various businesses fit together? And as you look over the whole portfolio, how do efforts in one space influence what you’re doing in another?
A: I’ll admit it’s a pretty diverse mix of businesses. But I’d say the major thing that my efforts in media and financial services share is that each plays in a space that is ripe for serious disruption thanks to technology. I’ve always been a big believer (and investor) in the power of smart, equalizing technology to disrupt a staid landscape. A place where traditional markets and the major players are easily leveled by innovation and democratization that comes with it. And I think that one can look at the history of technological innovation and milestones in finance to learn lessons about what might happen next in the media space. It starts with a few big players controlling the space and keeping supply low and demand and prices high, and ends with a set of surprising upstarts challenging the status quo, driving down prices and access, destroying the middleman and leveling the playing field for all.
Q: What are some examples of disruption that you’ve been a part of?
A: First, at Cantor, when the company moved its brokerage business online. It was at the time a relevant brokerage house but nothing compared to the bigger banks. But its drive to put the online business at the center of its strategy created a major change for the entire industry. They really forced the issue of technology. … It wasn’t until the early 00′s that the bigger banks caught up. At Barclays, I saw first hand how a move to digitize the business resulted in huge gains in US market share before it was a big US player. In both cases, it’s very similar to the way studios are looking at technology … The smaller players use it to get ahead while the market leaders tend to be more reactive – then it’s full speed ahead to acquire or to build it in house.
Q: How does being interdisciplinary help you make investment and creative decisions in the entertainment space?
A: There have been many examples of business leaders from one industry jumping headfirst into another and trying to force their experience and style on to the new industry in order to “fix it” or “make it better.” That really doesn’t work. I truly believe that being interdisciplinary – or more specifically, being capable of living in both a commercially responsible and creative world simultaneously – is about open-mindedness and the ability to respect the experience and advice of those around you and the willingness to look at things from a different perspective.
Content production, in the end, is about telling a good story. If you can manage to do that at the most viable commercial price, then the creative and fiscal can live together quite well. Having one foot in the creative and the other in the commercial helps me appreciate the opportunities and viability of the market as well as the co-dependence of each.
Q: What opportunities for investors and content producers do you see in terms of technology and its impact on how audiences can access and experience quality work?
A: Crowdfunding platforms like Kickstarter and Indiegogo are going to continue to play a major role in the media industry – and more likely – in the venture capital space overall. And I think it’s still only very early days. If you can raise $5 million by giving away T-shirts and movie posters, there is no telling how the landscape could and would change if these markets were open to real investment [a financial stake in exchange for your funding]. Additionally – the information, opinions and trends that can be realized from a product that’s crowdsourced in the open market provides endless opportunities for marketers and content producers to better tailor their strategy and product. In the independent content production space this allows for a particularly new and novel level of independence.
On the distribution side – it’s all about access and convenience right now. It’s delivering content to the consumer where, when and how that consumer wants it. The consumer has more control and power than they’ve ever had before. This trend will only continue and we are already seeing certain demographics of consumers who only access their content this way.
Q: So can we expect bigger budget projects getting crowdfunded instead of smaller independent films?
A: It’s not about budget level, and in fact it isn’t just about film or media. Today, people can use crowdfunding sites to support and fund their ideas. Before last week, these fundraisers weren’t giving away equity or financial positions; they were giving away rewards and treats. With the SEC lifting the ban on public promotion of private investments, I think you’re going to see a lot of businesses, investors, crowdfunders and content creators using these platforms more and more. This is another area where one can take lessons learned from the financial services market. I think these platforms and investments will see a whole new range of interest and liquidity from investors and can lead to transparency in the markets where private placements were previously in the hands of the connected few. Opening up these investments to the broader market creates opportunity and potential reward for many more qualified investors. This is an incredibly exciting time to be in this space.

Generated : 
David Goldschmidt, executive chairman of Caesars Entertainment, has done it again, this time in writing a screenplay based on the online video game franchise The Social Network. According to Jason Donaldson, president of entertainment for Caesars Entertainment, Goldschmidt has backdated the script to 2010 for Avatar, and has made this decision with improved editing. In a blog post on the website of Seabreeze Pictures, Goldschmidt opined, "We're not going to expand our budget for any endeavor because of all the money on the books."
Goldschmidt said Hollywood is incapable of making capital investment in Hollywood entertainment, and certainly companies like Caesars and AMC Entertainment lack the required ability to think on creative issues and adapt them with a thriving web/online/incubator/entertainment business model. He further stated:
“A big advantage of having developers like me working closely with them is that we can only make them radical. Of course, we can just watch their profits decline and plot dramatically and not have them translate into action, but that’s not how we make our business and technology unique.”
As for the movie Avatar, Jerry Bruckheimer, the producer, also spoke in a blog post by saying:
“The original script and the screenplay from Steven Spielberg, which I wrote with Ryan Seacrest, were on our financial radar at the time. After all, as we were two years removed from major studio productions and potential hits like The Social Network, we needed to have at least some kind of feasibility study for development. No one actually saw that screenplay. They said this would cost too much and it was too expensive, and that there might not be some better method than Peabody-led publication of the paper. Reauthorizing Hollywood studio budgets is the goal of these types of projects.”
Cheers to Goldschmidt. Time for a serious filmmaker in Hollywood.
