Title : Senate CR passes closure test without amendments - America's infrastructure gets a D+ - WRDA bill officially introduced
 
Original : 
Featuring Kathryn A. Wolfe, Scott Wong and Reid Epstein
SENATE CR ADVANCES SANS AMENDMENTS: The Senate advanced a modified version of the House’s six-month spending bill — good news for surface transportation but bad news for rural air traffic control towers. The bill still needs final passage but cleared a 60-vote cloture threshold with a surface transportation boost of more than $700 million to bring funding levels for the most part in line with MAP-21. Jerry Moran took to the floor in frustration after his bipartisan amendment to keep contract air traffic control towers open didn’t get a vote, calling the FAA’s tower shutdown place a “dangerous game to play in trying to prove a point that we can’t cut spending without putting at risk those who use air control towers.” Moran said he didn’t “have a good answer” for why he didn’t get a vote — we imagine there are a lot of other senators feeling the same way.
Story Continued Below
BETTER, BUT STILL FAILING: The state of American infrastructure has improved ever so slightly over the past four years — but it’s still failing, according to the new report card out today from the American Society of Civil Engineers. Our infrastructure got a D+ overall grade, up from a D when the last report card came out four years ago. Six modes saw higher grades and none got a lower mark. A new entry — ports — got an initial grade of C in its first go-around on the scoreboard. But looking at the modal breakdowns can distract from the big picture: The transportation network is a vast, interconnected system. “Even though the report card has individual grades for different categories, the fact is that our infrastructure works as a unit, as a system, and so it’s important that you invest in all of it, not necessarily at the exclusion of one over the other,” ASCE President Gary DiLoreto told MT. Adam’s Pro story has more: http://politico.pro/15kdZ3v
Abridged: ASCE formally launches the report card with a morning presser today at the Frederick Douglass Memorial Bridge in D.C. The event features officials from ASCE, NAM, DDOT and Building America’s Future Co-chair Ed Rendell.
For comparison’s sake: Richard Leiby takes us to Kabul, Afghanistan, which U.S. road-building efforts overseas have largely avoided. In the capital, Leiby reports, are “roads that generate choking dust in the summer and rivers of muck during winter’s snow melt and heavy rain.” http://wapo.st/XSmZx0
‘NOTHING TO REPORT’: Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood’s response to an antsy reporter looking for any new information on the still unsettled transition at DOT.
Wait it out: T&I Chairman Bill Shuster told MT that he hadn’t heard anything lately about a new secretary but thinks LaHood is just waiting for word from the White House. “My guess is that he’s waiting until the president says ‘I’ve got somebody,’” he told MT.
TUESDAY BLUESDAY. Thanks for reading POLITICO's Morning Transportation, your daily tipsheet on trains, planes, automobiles and Philadelphia. If it moves, it's news. Do stay in touch: beverett@politico.com and asnider@politico.com. Twitter: @ AdamKSnider and @ BurgessEv. More news: @ POLITICOPro and @ Morning_Transpo.
“I've got wheels of polished steel; I've tires that grab the road …” http://bit.ly/WSzsSS (h/t Matt Daily)
WHERE THERE’S A WILL THERE’S A WRDA: After a few hours of light reading, Team Transpo has finally gotten to the bottom of some of main provisions in the 284-page WRDA bill we got ahold of over the weekend. The legislation might allow for new projects in a way that doesn’t run afoul of Capitol Hill’s earmark ban. Any project carried out in accordance with a plan as well as any criteria the Army Corps of Engineers requires would be considered authorized as long as a report has been completed and the project has been referred to Congress before the bill is enacted, according to the draft — a contrast to the usual WRDA bill, which contains lists of specific projects for authorization contributed by lawmakers.
On the harbor front: The Senate draft also includes long-sought language that would bring annual spending from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund in line with revenues. And the bill doesn’t go as far as Bob Casey’s Inland Waterways standalone, which called for a fee increase in the inland waterways user fee. The Boxer-Vitter draft includes a two-year study into attempting to find more efficient methods of revenue collection. Burgess, Kathryn and Scott: http://politico.pro/147CzbY
Official: EPW officially released the bill last night as S. 601 ( http://1.usa.gov/1178Z1u) and offered a short summary as well ( http://1.usa.gov/15WRHXV).
CRUISIN’ FOR A BRUISIN’: First we had the flyers bill of rights. Up next, if Sen. Chuck Schumer has his way, is a similar measure for cruise ship passengers. In light of several recent horror stories on cruise ships, the New York senator is hoping the industry voluntarily adopts a six-point plan that would give riders the right to, among other things, leave a docked ship if “basic provisions” aren’t available onboard. http://1.usa.gov/YCR1AI
Gang of 100: Commerce Chair John Rockefeller told MT that he’s not up to speed on Schumer’s bill — but he thinks that the cruise ship companies have some explaining to do. “I don’t know what Sen. Schumer is doing but all 100 U.S. senators ought to be giving those people a real go-over,” he said Monday evening.
** A message from the American Society of Civil Engineers: D+. That is America’s “Infrastructure GPA” across 16 categories in the 2013 Report Card for America’s Infrastructure, released today by ASCE . Would you accept a D+? Download the free app and learn more at www.infrastructurereportcard.org. **
CONSTITUTIONAL: There’s a new umbrella group promoting the gospel of transportation spending, and its message seems tailor-made to appeal to conservatives. America's Infrastructure Alliance, set to officially roll out its message today, plans to trumpet the notion that America needs federal transportation spending and that supporting a federal role is wholly grounded in the U.S. Constitution. Jeff Loveng, the group’s president and chairman — who also happens to be T&I Chairman Bill Shuster’s former chief of staff — says that it’s not specifically meant to appeal to conservatives, but “anybody that believes in the foundation of the United States.” But he acknowledged that “there are challenges among conservatives when it comes to federal investments.” AIA’s membership includes some heavy hitters in the transpo world, including A4A, ATA, AAR and AGC. Kathryn has the Pro story: http://politico.pro/16Fe0lY
SECOND DRAFT: Maryland House leaders have rewritten Gov. Martin O’Malley’s big transpo plan, making it a bit simpler. It no longer would cut the gas tax right away, but would still grow the tax with inflation. And because the state gas tax wouldn’t get cut, a new sales tax on gasoline would be smaller. The House would gradually implement a 3 percent wholesale tax on gasoline, rather than 4 percent as proposed by the governor. Maryland’s plan — like Virginia’s — also relies on Congress passing an Internet sales tax bill; if that doesn’t come to fruition, the wholesale tax would bump up instead. WaPo: http://wapo.st/WzdC5P
THE AUTOBAHN (SPEED READ)
- California High-Speed Rail Authority approves the blended approach and $8.6 billion in bonds. Cali HSR Blog: http://bit.ly/YORH9f
- Truck Safety Coalition writes Rep. Michaud about his comments in Team MT’s truck weights story. For Pros: http://politico.pro/15WRJPg
- Amtrak's board of directors elects Anthony R. Coscia as chairman and Jeffrey R. Moreland as vice chairman.
- New Chicago fare card a “tool of mass confusion.” Trib: http://trib.in/134WRDw
- Florida father whose daughter died in a wreck with a texting driver is trying to get the state to ban texting while driving. TN: http://wny.cc/15iQ700
- No XPressWest detractors among Nevada delegation. Las Vegas Sun: http://bit.ly/YjnDDv
- New 16th St. NW bus line to start on March 25; route begins in Columbia Heights. GGW: http://bit.ly/ZO0I00
THE COUNTDOWN: Sequestration has been in effect for 19 days and it’s been 49 days since Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood announced his departure. DOT funding runs out in 9 days, passenger rail policy runs out in 196 days, surface transportation policy in 564 days and FAA policy in 926 days. The mid-term elections are in 595 days.
CABOOSE — Licensed: The New York Times has a great look at the evolution of drivers’ licenses in the Empire State, going all the way back to 1910, when the cards were decidedly less high-tech. Give it a look: http://nyti.ms/Z9eAAX (h/t Tal Kopan)
** A message from the American Society of Civil Engineers: D+. That’s the GPA for 16 sectors of U.S. infrastructure in the 2013 Report Card for America’s Infrastructure, released today by the American Society of Civil Engineers ( www.infrastructurereportcard.org). This grade was calculated by reviewing major U.S. infrastructure sectors, including roads, bridges, drinking water systems, mass transit, the energy grid, and others. This is a grade we simply cannot accept as a nation: it hurts our economy, makes the U.S. less competitive, and negatively impacts our quality of life and public safety. We must work as a nation to improve our grade. Download the free app and learn more at www.infrastructurereportcard.org. **
** A message from the New York Building Congress: It’s time to stand up for the rehabilitation of our northeast rail corridor and the Gateway Program. The rehabilitation of the northeast rail corridor and the Gateway Program, which would repair the current cross-Hudson tubes and construct two new passenger rail tunnels connecting New York and New Jersey, is the country’s most critical infrastructure project. The northeast rail corridor links the largest concentration of people, jobs, and economic productivity in the United States. Investment would transform the commute of hundreds of thousands of people and provide access to new jobs, industries and economic opportunities, all while ensuring the stability of our nation’s economy. The Gateway Program would create 72,000 jobs over the next 11 years in New York and New Jersey alone, not to mention the additional jobs created to repair other areas of the corridor. Find out how to keep the northeast corridor connected at www.buildingcongress.com **

Generated : 
The bills would help low-income Americans clean up messes on their roads. Senate CR passes closure test without amendments - America's infrastructure gets a D+ - WRDA bill officially introduced
House-Senate talks about an economy rebounding into a rousing rally in Washington on Tuesday morning were ended in private by the budget deal that forces immediate, painful cuts to federal taxes and direct spending in the $9.4 trillion debt bill that cleared the chamber this morning.
“The Federal spending bill that we’ve passed – it passes, and it includes $800 billion in additional cuts to funding for 100 percent of the big defense programs,” Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., said in prepared remarks. “It’s well behind schedule, and it requires a deeper level of spending cuts than the House Democrats have been able to approve, so we’re back to work.”
Story Continued Below
But, by all accounts, both House and Senate leaders wanted to work more together.
And with signs of government backing for the bills from as many as 100 House Democrats – helped by the estimated $20 billion construction of new roads for roads based on the revenue generated over the next two years – neither side is happy with the outcome.
Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., added some caveats to the relationship even as Democrats seemed poised to give the GOP the ax — arguing that her privately negotiated deal with Republican leaders was flawed and unconstitutional.
“We listened and we’ve taken on the complaints … where she chose to do it,” McCaskill said. “Instead of working with us and trying to get something that could withstand the scrutiny of our caucus, she went along.”
The deal includes a provision that would stop President Barack Obama from reopening the federal government to new beginning in June 2014 for 98 more months unless it was to be canceled altogether.
Also included in the final deal was $775 billion for infrastructure, but that target is at an impasse. Senate Democrats said the $775 billion does not include significant Democratic proposals like $1.6 trillion in infrastructure spending.
The House rejected a measure to finance infrastructure spending, but it would not be the first time that Democrats have lost the whip vote in the house after impasses on government spending. The House over the weekend also passed a Freedom Caucus amendment that would have imposed even harsher cuts on agency spending.
At the same time, Democratic plans to eliminate the long-term unemployed include an increase in the number of people who qualify for unemployment compensation, a provision Senate Democrats opposed. Both measures would have passed the House.
“House Republicans don’t believe they’re Democrats,” a House Democratic aide said of the House GOP plan to avoid the cuts on their own.
House Speaker John Boehner said as many as 99 members were on the Hill when the Senate bill was sent to the floor, and an aide said Boehner planned to work with GOP leadership on exactly what amendments would be filed.
But this was the first time that the Senate was going to pass legislation on a budget — even though Democrats lined up behind them as opposed to Republicans on the Senate side.
The Senate passed a short-term spending bill that earlier emerged from talks on the budget deal, but only $95 billion was needed to fully pay for the full measure.
House Democrats have complained that the chamber has increasingly been making compromises on issues such as tax increases and debt limits.
“The House really has come to the table about shared priorities in everything,” said Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. “And so there’s a difference between joining forces and legislating on behalf of common sense and common causes.”
Other experts said, though, the purpose of the Senate bill is to take on higher costs while cutting the budget.
“We don’t have the ability to do things in the middle of the year in a way that the lawmakers could do in a couple of weeks,” said Steve Sviggum, a law professor at the University of Michigan Law School and a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on International Bodies.
That’s not necessarily a bad thing, said Sviggum, when the House would have already done something.
“You could say that with appropriations, you are more likely to take on expenses at the moment,” he said. “But you want to do something that gives an advantage to your competitors.”
