Title : Wall Street’s new buzzword is ‘volatility’
 
Original : 
“Volatility” is the new catchphrase on Wall Street, thanks to a once-placid stock market that has quickly turned into a frightful, white-knuckle roller-coaster ride for investors.
A quick check of investopedia.com came up with the following definition: “A statistical measure of the dispersion of returns for a given security or market index.”
What it means in real life is stock prices are gyrating up and down wildly, crazily, frantically — with no apparent rhyme or reason. Indeed, instead of a formal definition of volatility, just look at the daily price action of the Dow Jones industrial average the past 10 trading sessions, starting with Wednesday’s close: +293 (points); -470; -115; -12; +369; +619; -205; -588; -531; -358.
Stocks were hurt by global growth fears sparked by signs of a more serious economic slowdown in China than previously feared, worries about a coming interest rate hike from the U.S. Federal Reserve and a market that was slightly overvalued relative to history.
But instead of saying the stock market has gone haywire or stocks have fallen off a cliff or skyrocketed to Mars, Wall Street says the stock market is volatile.
To say the word volatility is in vogue would be an understatement. A search of the word “volatility” on Google came up with 31.8 million hits in 0.35 seconds.
Volatility can be good or bad for investors. On the bullish side, all the wild swings — especially to the downside — could put some stocks on sale, kind of like a Bluelight Special at K-Mart. On the bearish side, volatility means shrinking 401(k) balances, sleepless nights and worries about worst-case scenarios.
In short, volatility can be your friend or enemy. Which one depends on how you are wired from a behavioral finance standpoint.

Generated : 
Although growing pains have played out across all paths for the three-headed baseball juggernaut, let’s not be too cloying.
We all know how catfights in baseball sometimes end: Fox cannot call a score, and the head of the managers’ association omits a line to the goal.
A real earnings volatility game would ensure a blast of post-strike excitement that reminds us, however, that no manager can sell the team as the stars are aligning. As a result, in turn, causes a glimmer of hope.
“I like that locker room conversation, but I don’t like that name and trend that we’re playing around with right now,” explained Dodgers manager Dave Roberts in an interview with The Big Lead’s Jeff Passan. “We’re sort of trying to guess what our team would look like.”
Except it’s not even close.
Except, that is, until, something (some kind of potentially new energy) dumps the ball in the playoffs.
As we’ve all pointed out lately, we’re after every piece of shutout baseball, before Thanksgiving or anything else. It’s an excellent strategy, and if only we had the that much excitement in the stadium every two years. So even though it’s one game late in the season, the Dodgers are entitled to razzle-dazzle to a tee with a few wins and defeats. They just don’t have to let that fail them.
And we’re not just here to pick at our own phones.
Now, at a certain point, we all have to want the biggest campaign of the year (yet again) but if the Dodgers are a team in need of something fresh (closing the books), we’ll be on board in the all-toughest way. (Yes, full disclosure, I’m not one of those players, but I can walk my halls because of the fact I don’t get a day off every year.)
We’re for optimism, but hope alone isn’t enough. A long slog for results can be too easy to take, especially after a late-season stinker.
Sometimes we do. Sometimes, even though, we can’t.
Another reason for all the excitement, of course, is that the Giants, for all their promising young players, are the best club in baseball. They fell just short of winning the NL pennant last weekend, and look like they can beat anyone.
There’s no real reason for optimism, it’s just that the other team, when it comes down to it, was last in the NL West last year. Which means the Dodgers should get right on the wall soon, if only for the rest of us to catch a few weeks of sunshine.
So, too, when they do finally get a playoff spot, because it’s a late game that puts it squarely in play.
And then, too, why not put all this in a similar place with fall camp?
A few weeks down the road, I’ll be taking my season — our baseball renaissance — on the road to Austin, Texas, when our league lands in San Francisco.
About that title
Over at The Big Lead’s sportscast in the past week, the Houston Astros raised themselves for a wild-card bid, but I’m just going to leave it there — until then, wait, will those young ballplayers really make it on the mound?
