Title : Football Agent Terry Watson Facing 14 Felony Counts For Violating North Carolina Athlete Agent Law
 
Original : 
Former Florida Gators and current New England Patriots linebacker Brandon Spikes was a second round (No. 62 overall) pick in the 2010 NFL Draft. At the time he was selected, Spikes was represented by Marietta, Georgia-based football agent Terry Watson of Watson Sports Agency. A year later, Spikes left Watson to sign with competitor Drew Rosenhaus of Rosenhaus Sports Representation after rumors circulated that Spikes had made wild monetary demands to Watson.
In the past 2 years, Watson has felt the burn of clients leaving his firm for his rivals. Kansas City Chiefs defensive end Allen Bailey (No. 86 overall pick of the 2011 NFL Draft) also moved from Watson to Rosenhaus after being selected. in 2012, Jacksonville Jaguars cornerback Mike Harris decided to switch from Watson to Joe Linta and Tom Kleine of JL Sports agency. Earlier this year, San Francisco 49ers cornerback Chris Culliver changed agencies, going from Watson’s company to Joel Segal of Lagardere Unlimited.
Yet, Watson’s biggest problem is not the fact that his once-reputable client base has gradually drifted away and into his competitors hands. Instead, his focus is on the State of North Carolina, where he currently faces 14 felony counts (based on Athlete Agent Inducement & Felony Obstruction of Justice) on charges that he violated the State’s laws concerning athlete agents. Watson has been indicted for allegedly providing a host of illegal benefits to former football players at the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, all of whom now play in the NFL.
The alleged benefits come in the form of money, hotel rooms and airfare, and were purportedly provided by Watson to Marvin Austin, Greg Little and Robert Quinn.
As early as September 2010, it was known that Austin, Little and Quinn were being investigated for allegedly receiving benefits deemed to be improper by the NCAA. Those players have had a tough time keeping their names out of the news. Each of the aforementioned football players have changed agents since entering the NFL. One agent even sued Quinn (for agent commissions on his first NFL contract) and Austin (for recruiting Quinn away to a rival agent). In 2011, an NCAA Notice of Allegations against the University of North Carolina mentioned that Austin and Little received money to cover travel expenses (in violation of NCAA rules and regulations).
The indictments against Watson reveal that Watson allegedly attempted to induce Little and Austin to sign an agency contract with him and paid the two players money throughout 2010. Additionally, the indictments show that Watson provided Little and Quinn with hotel rooms and airline tickets on multiple occasions.
The alleged benefits received by the former UNC football players may have begun as early as May 4, 2010. It was only 2 months later that Joe Schad of ESPN.com learned that the NCAA had initiated an investigation of UNC’s football program concerning benefits that may have been delivered from sports agents to student-athletes. Marvin Austin was 1 of 13 players who were interviewed as part of the investigation. The State of North Carolina got into a legal battle with the NCAA over a request for the documents and records related to the NCAA investigation. And then the State embarked on its own investigation. Now it seems that Terry Watson may be hit with some major penalties in a rare display of a state actually enforcing the athlete agent laws it has on the books.
Earlier today, Watson was released on a $50,000 bond. His next court appearance is scheduled for October 15.
Darren Heitner is a Partner at Wolfe Law Miami, P.A. in Miami, Florida, Founder of Sports Agent Blog, and Professor of Sport Agency Management at Indiana University. Learn more about him at http://www.darrenheitner.com.
Follow @DarrenHeitner

Generated : 
Terry Watson, a 1998 University of North Carolina School of Law graduate and former NFL player, is now accused of evading even more felony counts after he admitted to demanding $15,000, along with $15,000 for his guns, school records show.
When the Banner originally announced Watson as the head football coach at North Carolina, 9News reported that Watson could be facing a 14 felonies for his felonies after a Carolina College System official notified him he was a prohibited person under North Carolina's Employee Free Exercise Law.
“There are numerous offenses within the law that relate to the theft, the publication and possession of firearms and ammunition,” stated the North Carolina Department of Business and Professional Regulation's Division of Occupational Safety and Health Coordinator Ben Butler in a statement. “The department will continue to vigorously prosecute individuals that violate this law.”
The 2nd Judicial Circuit Court of Forsyth County charged Watson with two counts of Endorsement of a Class and eight counts of felony showmance before an Anderson County judge. But Butler said Watson had previously expressed intent to “voluntarily resign and enter business with us in order to make a minimal contribution of his time as a player.”
Watson’s attorney Chuck Werts said his client had a chance to speak with a lawyer outside of court about the charges. Werts declined to release more information, saying he’s not on the record yet.
A spokeswoman for North Carolina State Board of Recruitment, Professional and Regulatory Standards Superintendent Justin Reese, who regulates athletics at school and collegiate levels, also did not immediately return a phone call requesting comment.
Watson’s recruiting is a long one. North Carolina has been accused of retaliating against a player and two other top-level athletes when it was revealed that Watson was on the North Carolina coach’s staff for 16 years, the Banner reported.
The 53-year-old football coach dismissed allegations that he fraudulently obtained federal student and booster certification, banned players from using his office and disciplined players for trouble they found themselves in at his disposal. North Carolina dismissed on multiple occasions agents from multiple universities.
He was named one of NCAL’s Top 10 employees in 2003, placing him third on Charlotte Hermanpad Inc.’s coaching list. He was hired last year to fill the role of athletic director.
Watson resigned from UNC after the opener against DeSales in September 2011 and on Oct. 1 he was charged with the possession of illegal firearms and felony illegal firearms possession, the Banner reported.
Watson has been charged again with the possession of an unregistered firearm, conspiracy and filing a false official employment report after authorities in Alabama had charged him with second-degree robbery, attempted concealment of a firearm, possession of a firearm by a convicted felon and carrying a concealed firearm.
