Title : Senate tax plan would eliminate health insurance coverage for millions to pay for tax cuts for richest Americans
 
Original : 
The Senate tax bill released last week follows the same framework proposed by the U.S. House and the Trump Administration: delivering large tax cuts to the richest Americans while paving the way for cuts to schools, health care and the infrastructure that helps communities thrive.
Now, in what is perhaps the most disturbing recent development, Senate leaders have added a more explicit attack on the health care of at least 13 million Americans by placing a proposed repeal the individual mandate in the tax bill.
This is from the Center on Budget & Policy Priorities:
“The savings from eliminating the mandate would come entirely from reducing health coverage. For example, the federal government would spend less on premium tax credits because fewer people would sign up for marketplace coverage, less on Medicaid because fewer people would enroll, and less on the tax exclusion for employer-sponsored health insurance because fewer employees would enroll in job-based coverage. These savings are what let Senate leaders make their full corporate rate cut permanent. Without repeal of the individual mandate, the long-term costs of the corporate rate cut ($171 billion in 2027 alone) would have exceeded the savings from the bill’s offsetting revenue raisers, even after Senate Republicans modified their bill to have its individual income tax cuts expire after 2025. This math problem seems to have been a key part of the motivation for adding individual mandate repeal to the bill. With savings of $53 billion in 2027, the provision pays for making about one-third (about 4.7 percentage points) of the corporate rate cut permanent. Other provisions in the bill would cover the rest of the cost.”
Late yesterday, the national AARP issued the following statement:
“The amendment to repeal the individual health coverage requirement will leave millions of Americans uninsured, destabilize the health insurance market, and lead to spikes in the cost of premiums. The Congressional Budget Office recently confirmed that repealing the individual health coverage requirement would lead to 13 million Americans losing their health coverage, including 2 million Americans who would lose employer-sponsored coverage. AARP urges Congress to reject this amendment, which also undermines the bipartisan health bill offered last month by Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Patty Murray (D-WA) that is intended to reduce premium spikes and stabilize the individual health insurance market.”
This is a developing story — stay tuned for updates.

Generated : 
Senate Republicans released a sweeping tax plan on Thursday that includes an elimination of state health insurance tax breaks to pay for President Trump’s massive tax cuts, and features a similar bill in the House.
The Senate tax bill cuts insurance coverage for millions of low-income and working-class North Carolinians who purchase coverage through employers, and decreases premiums for consumers by 50 percent. It also eliminates the state tax on medical device excise taxes.
After additional details emerged about the measure — including likely Republican plans to make tax cuts for working-class families worth up to $500 per household — Democrats got caught off guard. “The Senate version of the tax plan is now uncertain about all those dollars that the House Republicans would be able to save from the top 2 percent by reducing the tax brackets,” Senate Finance Committee Chairman Chuck DeVore, R-Manhattan, said in a statement.
Democratic State Legislative leaders reported on their own in a conference call that the tax plan had similar flaws to House Republican tax legislation that cut state jobs and education funding. Democratic State Rep. Trent Turner, D-Manhattan, noted in a statement that Republicans will likely pursue a plan similar to House Republicans’ in the Senate, but will not take action until the Congressional Budget Office rating them “which, in my view, provides reasonable assurance that we will see a potential near-term delay in the enactment of the House Republican plan.”
Democratic State Sen. Andrew Housenbold, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, released a statement decrying the decision.
“Overall, the Senate tax bill is the second largest tax cut passed by North Carolina, by far, since 1994,” Housenbold said. “Doughing it up, four senators — two Republicans and two Democrats — won in the Senate over the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. No matter who wins on November 4, North Carolina will never, ever, ever again see billions of dollars in revenue lost by North Carolina taxpayers to the tax loophole.”
Housenbold, who is retiring due to term limits, said many of the changes to Medicaid were revenue-neutral, while contributing to the ongoing debate in Congress about raising taxes. He called a tax plan “a tax cut for the top 2 percent of North Carolinians.”
The Senate GOP tax bill would simplify the tax code, reduce the tax filing age for individual taxpayers and simplify capital gains and dividends. On Thursday, Democrats said the changes were part of an effort to close a tax loophole. “It has been a long overdue effort to reform the tax code,” Senate Minority Leader Chris McDaniel, D-New Orleans, said in a statement. “We should all be proud of the leaders who have pushed for a successful tax reform.”
