Title : Black Friday e-commerce: Retailers brag about record results as Best Buy site goes down
 
Original : 
In the days to come we’ll find out precisely how many billions were spent over this critical shopping weekend, but for now, there’s some clear winners and losers.
Best Buy’s slogan this weekend is “Nobody does Black Friday like Best Buy.”
That particularly rang true Friday morning when its website crashed under the strain of holiday traffic. The site and mobile app went down for almost two hours, starting at around 7 a.m. PT. A spokesman told told Re/Code that a surge in traffic from mobile devices was to blame.
Reports from other retailers were more optimistic, with strong sales occurring on Thanksgiving day.
Walmart declined to release specific sales figures, but said its website broke records yesterday with more than 500 million page views. It said Thanksgiving delivered its second highest online sales day ever behind Cyber Monday last year, with mobile driving more than 70 percent of Walmart.com traffic yesterday.
After a feasting on turkey and mashed potatoes, people clearly put picked up their phones and tablets to shop.
Target also reported optimistic, yet vague, results for Thanksgiving day.
The Minneapolis-based retailer said the number of online orders and sales increased more than 40 percent over last year, making it one of the company’s biggest online sales day ever. The most growth in traffic and sales came from mobile.
Many reports suggested that customers began shopping earlier this year, taking advantage of sales that began days or weeks ahead of schedule.
According to Adobe, which tracks e-commerce spending through its marketing software, reports that $1.33 billion was spent online yesterday, which is 25 percent more than in 2013. It said 29 percent of those sale came from mobile devices.
ChannelAdvisor also reported a strong uptick in spending, with its clients seeing Thanksgiving sales up 20.1 percent. Amazon was a particularly noteworthy marketplace, with same-store sales increasing 25.9 percent. On the other hand, eBay saw same-store sales fall 3 percent.
A few reports are suggesting that earlier sales are leading to fewer elbows and punches being thrown this Black Friday as smaller crowds turn out to fight over sale items, according to The AP. Some people will find this music to their ears as employees have begun to protest working long hours over holiday weekends, and others fail to see the value in owning more stuff.

Generated : 
For the first time, retailers were forced to do more than send down e-mail in order to make their site faster and more reliable. Amazon opened about two hours earlier, two hours ahead of brick-and-mortar e-commerce sites, with stores running bare, or on-premise hardware — just a brief respite from Amazon’s use of pre- and post-orders.
Walmart called the changes “deeply disappointing” and predicted that — according to e-commerce trade group E-Commerce International — sales of Black Friday items would be up less than 2 percent. In a long-anticipated post-Black Friday blog post, Walmart founder and CEO Doug McMillon revealed some upcoming developments with the financial reporting infrastructure.
Walmart increased its number of staff by “60 percent” over the last year to 2,299 people, with about 4,000 of the new people coming from outside the company, according to McMillon. That compares to projections for the prior year of 3,900 on-site retail staff and 500 employees.
Macy’s shares spiked 13 percent on its own results and also rose 1.8 percent — as does the retailer’s ad unit, home builder Zara. The retailer’s sales beat Wall Street expectations, with earnings per share of $0.53.
Macy’s cautioned that gross margin on its in-store e-commerce investments were down. The company explained in its earnings report that in-store tech — goods such as advanced manufacturing and automated inventory management systems — contributed to revenue trends, but units will only take 16 percent of that total, because the percentage of goods sold will only increase with volume growth.
The company also posted a $50 million charge to deferred compensation in the form of a tax benefit.
Amazon’s e-commerce experience over the past couple of years is already one of the biggest trends in retail, according to industry watchers, as consumers shift from their shopping lists online to traditional brick-and-mortar stores and machines.
“Online retailers are unique,” said Philadelphia investment manager Christopher Hatfield in a report released by the Mall of America this month. “They are an attractive business model and an opportunity to leverage their brand.”
And customers do not need to purchase Amazon to shop. They can shop anywhere, retailing merchandise online and through any service they want.
“It’s a very unique model,” Hatfield added. “All of the things customers want in a category are things they already have, and any kind of complementary service at a great price.”
Amazon does not break out data on when it has deployed its own hardware to drive down in-store e-commerce sales. In the past year, Amazon users have opted to purchase shoes and clothes directly from Amazon when they arrive at Amazon.com or from retail locations, according to the company.
Amazon’s retail platform, which is expected to hit an all-time record this holiday weekend, is already testing new ways to monetize its site in order to manage the growth of its website.
“Today’s news will greatly strengthen our value proposition, providing our customers with new and innovative ways to spend more money,” McMillon said in a Facebook post. “We will be aggressively looking at ways to add some additional value in a variety of ways, which include (e)ments, subscriptions, and other third-party revenue streams.”
Those elements will be integrated into a site that is expected to launch in early 2015.
“We’re already seeing great things happening in front of us,” said another top Amazon executive, Brian Ortega, at a conference in August. “The way a mobile device works now can be very useful. We’re testing a lot of different ways to do business together, like mailing or completing cards, or sending e-mails.”
