Title : Wall Street eyes election results for measure of future stability
 
Original : 
The key concern now for most investors is how the markets will react to the election, and how they will they perform under the new president.
It’s a highly charged conversation that many in the media, academia and on Wall Street are engaged in.
In order to do a proper economic and market analysis, one needs to start without a politically desired outcome.
The Democrats have Hillary Clinton. Like her or not, she is a well-known candidate, and her political economics have been deemed by many to be more predictable (although that was before the FBI re-opened its investigation into her e-mails). The Republicans have Donald Trump, whose most predictable campaign trait has been his unpredictability.
The markets prefer predictability. Think of it in chivalrous terms, such as a husband buying his wife her favorite roses on her birthday every year. The same yellow roses are beautiful, predictable and appreciated.
Trump’s persona offers less chivalry and more surprise. He may walk in with chocolates, or flowers or a piece of jewelry. Which in life is not necessarily a bad thing, but for the neurotic securities market, predictability trumps surprise every time.
However, Trump has actually stayed remarkably consistent with his economic theme, which could ultimately bode well for the markets.
Conventional wisdom in the mainstream media and on Wall Street is that a Clinton win would be better for the markets — a belief that may be behind the past nine trading days the market has sold of as the gap with Trump narrows in the polls.
One of the great investors, Benjamin Graham, had a saying: “In the short run, the market is a voting machine, but in the long run, it is a weighing machine” — meaning that in the short run you add up the votes, as in a popularity contest, but in the long run, the underlying fundamentals always win out.

Generated : 
Ahead of Election Day and amid burgeoning discontent with Trump, Wall Street is poised to continue to expand its horizons and toward heights not seen since the Great Depression, as it has been too slow to endorse or support Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.
With about 90 percent of U.S. adults now expecting a Clinton victory, according to a new poll by the Hartford Courant, the tone on Wall Street and among its most powerful clients will be muted.
Although data by the Campaign Finance Institute suggests that Wall Street is indeed growing in its spirt of optimism, the Smith Barney-owned firm is still setting a risk-taking tone and treading cautiously – and perhaps even slow.
“Regrettably, there is even more pragmatism now than there was before the financial crisis,” said Mike Montgomery, chairman of the Smith Barney brokerage practice. “Investors and investors remain unsure of what’s next for the market or continue to anticipate a late-next-next-generation crisis.”
In a statement Thursday, the investment firm said earnings will continue to grow even if Trump loses the popular vote, but the firm’s revenue will be “remarkably less significant to the overall outlook.”
Wall Street is also likely to invest more as it does, and it has already said that more investors will invest in U.S. stocks than they have, after seven years of ultra-low interest rates.
A survey of a dozen Wall Street firms by J.P. Morgan’s Wealth Management unit found that only three — Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc. — said they had strong views on Election Day — outpacing the overall outlook for U.S. equities, investment banks, commodities traders and hedge funds.
The respondents: American Express Corp., Microsoft Corp., Cisco Systems Inc., Starbucks Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co., T-Mobile US Inc., No. 3 Wells Fargo & Co., TIAA-CREF Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co., Manulife Financial Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Daiwa Securities Group Inc., Bank of America Corp., Bear Stearns Cos., Bank of New York Mellon Corp., Goldman Sachs & Co., Morgan Stanley & Co., Taper talkers JPMorgan, Bank of America and Wells Fargo.
