Title : Vicis raises another $6M to ramp up production of high-tech football helmet
 
Original : 
Vicis is raising more cash to help fuel production of its high-tech football helmet.
The Seattle startup today confirmed with GeekWire that it just closed another $6 million in funding, which completes a $10 million Series A round. Total funding for the 2-year-old company to date is nearly $20 million.
More than 100 investors participated in the Series A round, including angels, neurological and spine surgeons, NFL players, and business leaders from across the country.
Vicis previously raised $4 million of the round in April; it reeled in $8 million this past January. Investors range from people like Roger Staubach, the 1963 Heisman Trophy winner and former Dallas Cowboys quarterback who led his team to two Super Bowl wins; to folks like Robert Nelsen, a biotech industry veteran and co-founder of Arch Venture Partners, and Bruce Montgomery, a veteran of the Seattle biotech scene.
Vicis, a finalist for the 2016 GeekWire Awards in the Hardware/Gadget of the Year category, will use the fresh cash for production and commercialization of its ZERO1 helmet for the upcoming football season. Around 25 NFL and 30 NCAA teams have expressed interest in testing the helmet for the 2016 season, the company said.
The 30-person startup, which spun out of the University of Washington last year, says its ZERO1 helmet provides more protection against skull fracture, traumatic brain injury, and concussion than the traditional helmet used by athletes today. The helmet differentiates from other available options because of a unique outer shell material that is designed to mitigate the forces thought to cause concussions on the football field and in other contact sports.

Generated : 
Vicis Technologies, the Seattle startup of color hair wheel technology that raises the bar for tech toys, is raising another $6 million to accelerate its printing process and manufacturing capabilities.
The money will go toward on-the-ground engineering, manufacturing and training, said Pasquale Ball, CEO of the startup, via email.
Ball and company have followed the Seattle startup’s lead in creating high-tech wearable technology that can be used by companies to fit the signs and small announcements that businesses and their employees make, according to Ball. The company has over 20 employees, including an engineering team that consists of engineers who bring a forward thinking approach to hardware development.
“Our strategy has been to build a manufacturing chain that’s more agile, able to take all the necessary steps to start making these objects quickly, to build them with focused engineering experience, and to have a ready solution early to support future growing demand,” he said.
The startup plans to expand into production areas such as printing, automotive technology and environmental engineering. Its other ongoing efforts are to commercialize advertising technology, use RFID tags to aid businesses and end-to-end analytics for customers.
Vicis is pushing into the higher-priced industrial design and make-in-Seattle market, thanks to its clients including Coca-Cola, Boeing, Nike, Levi Strauss, Nike, SI and VMWare. The San Francisco-based company says its NFL helmet production is up 300 percent over last year and it’s slowly but surely ramping up production.
Ball also said the funding will be used to expand on the story the company described in February.
“I’m pleased to be able to expand our manufacturing capacity so quickly, grow our engineering team, improve our manufacturing process, and increase our profitability,” he said.
Ball declined to comment on a possible sale of the startup, citing the company’s confidentiality agreement. He confirmed he’s been given a severance package and will be transitioning to a new partner.
Vicis also had revenue of $9.1 million in 2015, up from $2.3 million in 2014. As of this quarter, the company had a customer in China and 3,249 people worldwide under various contracts.
