Title : Big stars cameo to explain Wall Street in 'The Big Short'
 
Original : 
Selena Gomez, Anthony Bourdain and Margot Robbie all make cameos as themselves in the final cut of the upcoming Paramount flick “The Big Short,” a source tells Confidenti@l.
In the movie about the leadup to the financial crisis of 2008, the three all break the fourth wall and explain to the audience various financial terms and Wall Street facts and figures, adds our source, who was at an advanced screening in Los Angeles over the weekend.
“They weren’t sure whether to leave it in, but the audience reaction was positive,” says our source of the movie based on the Michael Lewis best-seller.
Cast members Ryan Gosling, Christian Bale and Steve Carell all attended the Hollywood screening at the Westwood Village Theater and stayed for an audience Q&A.
About director Adam McKay, Carell told the audience: “He’s incredibly smart ... He’s a big deal. I was frankly shocked that he asked me to be in it, but I was really thankful.”
Gosling told the crowd, “It was a little tricky to figure this out. It was like being Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck going back and forth with my character who was also the narrator and based on a real-life person.”
And on speaking to the camera in the film, Gosling revealed he grew up watching “Saved by the Bell,” so he’d learned some tips. “So to get to look at the camera in the eye, goddamn, it felt good,” he said.
Farm livin' is the life for Anjelica Huston. (Imeh Akpanudosen/Getty Images ) Selita Ebanks is expected to attend the 9th anniversary bash for STK. (Jemal Countess/Getty Images)
OL’ ANJELICA HAD A FARM
Anjelica Huston says she’s happy living on a farm.
“Oh, God, I have a farm. Kind of like an old McDonald farm. I have some mustangs on that farm. A couple of mustangs that were rescued from a Nevada lot. I have goats, I have pigs, chickens, cats,” the Oscar-winning actress told us at a Humane Society gala at Cipriani 42nd St. “With the cats, we have to be careful cause it’s up in the mountains and we have a lot of coyotes ... I have five cats, two dogs.”
HOT B’DAY AT HOTSPOT
Happy birthday, STK. The club in the Meatpacking District will celebrate its ninth anniversary on Tuesday night. The hotspot has since expanded to Atlanta, Las Vegas, Los Angeles and Milan.
Expected at an exclusive bash for the eatery, a favorite of former Yankee Derek Jeter, are a gaggle of models and fashion world types, including Selita Ebanks, Tyson Beckford and “Shark Tank” star Daymond John.
We hear there will be specialty cocktails and hors d’oeuvres for the crowd on the house.
Chrissy Teigen wore a gray dress with a beige coat as she stepped out with her mother and her dog. (Splash News) Victoria Justice attends the Toronto Maple Leafs vs New York Rangers game. (JD Images / Splash News)
TEIGEN TAKES HER BUMP FOR A WALK
Chrissy Teigen’s baby bump is growing.
The model — John Legend’s other half — headed out to walk her dog while home in New York and on a break from “FABLife,” the show she co-hosts in Los Angeles.
JUSTICE SERVED COLD
Call her Victoria Just-Ice.
The “Zoey 101” star catches the Rangers vs. Toronto Maple Leafs game at Madison Square Garden on Sunday night with her sister and fellow actress, Madison Justice, where the pair were snapped munching on popcorn and cotton candy. Victoria later tweeted, “Having a blast at our 1st ever hockey game! #LetsGoRangers."
Taraji P. Henson sizzles in a laceup black dress at the VH1 Big in 2015 Awards in Hollywood. (Jeffrey Mayer/WireImage) Funny lady Amy Schumer turns glam in a scarlet dress in L.A. (Jeffrey Mayer/WireImage)
Miranda Kerr at the Swarovski Star raising for 2015 Rockefeller Center Christmas Tree. (Jackie Brown / Splash News) Martha Stewart grabbed dinner with friends at Seaspice in Miami. (Neilson Barnard/Getty Images for Food Network So)
MERRY KERR-ISTMAS
Miranda Kerr snuggles up in a fur-trimmed coat — on a nearly 70-degree day — to see the Swarovski crystal star hoisted on to the top of the Rockefeller Center Christmas tree on Monday.
The model — who split with Orlando Bloom in 2013 — recently told E! Online that she plans to spend Christmas in her native Australia with her new boyfriend, Snapchat founder Evan Spiegel.
1ST WORLD, 1ST YEAR PROBLEMS
The bubble could have burst on Saturday at a party celebrating the first anniversary of Beautique — when the restaurant ran out of champagne before midnight. A spy tells Confidenti@l two wealthy Middle Eastern customers began a “spending war,” competing to buy the most magnums and jeroboams of bubbly.
“As one guest started buying champagne, another guest began buying champagne,” said the source, “The two went back and forth until they had bought over $100,000 spent on champagne in the night and the restaurant ran out!”
MARTHA SPICES UP MIAMI
Martha Stewart grabbed dinner with friends at Seaspice in Miami over the weekend. We’re told the businesswoman arrived at the restaurant on the Miami River with socialites Yolanda and Jeff Berkowitz and ordered up the tartar, meli melo, grilled octopus, Aushak dumplings.
After dinner she took a quick tour and cut out, telling staff she needed to get some sleep before an early flight the next morning.
Cynthia Nixon to greet Fitness 360 guests. (Ben Gabbe/Getty Images) Justin Bieber took a celebratory skateboard adventure through NYC. (247PAPS.TV / Splash News)
TOAST WITH CYNTHIA FOR FITNESS
A therapeutic new fitness center called Fitness 360 will celebrate its grand opening Tuesday night with “Sex and the City” star Cynthia Nixon coming to greet guests, we’re told.
The party for the program, which specializes in massage and posture therapy, will be from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. at 185 Madison Ave., on the third floor.
The founders of the workout technique and celebrity sports trainers Germain Phanord and JJ Miranda will be on hand for exercise tips.
BIEBER’S A SKATEBOARD RAT
Justin Bieber is spotted doing tricks on his skateboard after his new album hit No. 1 on the charts. The Biebs rode his way through Midtown, performing jumps and leaping over a flight of stairs.

Generated : 
Adele performed as a sidekick in “The Big Short,” a hefty follow-up to her bestselling self-titled book.
Video: O.J. Simpson: Flashes Set in ‘The Big Short’
Most of the veteran actors in the film center around professional poker player Corey Lewin, who loses hundreds of millions of dollars by investing with Brian Hill. And best known as the true financial genius behind the misdeeds of Wall Street, Lewin helps skew the movie along an unrecognizable sidekick.
But other actors mention other personalities in the film as well.
Elizabeth Banks recalls talking to Warren Beatty about making the movie and/or John Malkovich reading around at the table, including those two people who played accomplices in the bank-busting of Las Vegas casinos.
Cameras and extras on the set of ‘The Big Short’ stop, applaud, wave, or pretend to cheer as Warren Beatty laughs at actor Elizabeth Banks' lines about making his film.
These included a backstage talk between Beatty and Lewin about directing Banks' second film, and that Watt's 10th anniversary will take place March 3.
We've seen the movie. It's great. There's not a mystery in there that's not a secret.
