Title : Senate healthcare bill would cut insurance for 22 million Americans, CBO says
 
Original : 
Twenty-two million Americans will lose health insurance coverage over the next 10 years under the draft Senate healthcare bill, according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO).
‘They’re sentencing me to death’: Medicaid recipients on the Republican healthcare plan Read more
The bill is the Senate’s version of a healthcare bill passed by the House of Representatives in May, which the CBO found would cost 23 million people healthcare coverage and decrease the federal budget deficit by $119bn over a 10-year period.
The Senate legislation would reduce the federal deficit by $321bn over a decade, the CBO found, largely due to the bill’s steep cuts to the Medicaid health program for the poor and the scaling back of federal assistance for those individuals purchasing their own private coverage.
Roughly 15 million more people would be uninsured next year compared with the figure under the current healthcare law, according to the CBO, a number that would increase to 19 million in 2020.
The highest impact would fall on low-income and elderly Americans, with those between the ages of 55 and 64 bearing a disproportionate share of the burden.
Those who rely on Planned Parenthood for women’s health services would also take a substantial hit, since the Senate bill would defund the organization for a year. The funding prohibition would cause the number of births in the Medicaid program to increase by “several thousand”, the CBO said, affecting predominantly those areas that lack other health clinics or medical practitioners. The CBO projected that about 15% of those people would lose access to care.
The CBO score comes after Republicans amended the draft Senate bill they released last week to require those who have gone without health coverage for more than two months to wait an additional six months if they want health insurance coverage. Advocates have pointed out that the waiting period could be fatal for those suffering from acute illnesses, such as cancer or heart disease.
The intent of the proposal is to provide an incentive for healthy people to purchase health insurance coverage, in lieu of the individual mandate required by the Affordable Care Act.
Top Senate Republicans have insisted on holding a vote this week through a process known as budget reconciliation, which would require a simple majority of 51 votes in the 100-member Senate in order for the legislation to pass.
On Twitter, the Senate majority whip, John Cornyn of Texas, stated of the impending vote: “I am closing the door. We need to do it this week before double-digit premium increases are announced for next year.” In order for the bill to be passed by the end of the week, Republicans need to hold a procedural vote on the bill in the next two days on a “motion to proceed”.
Republicans can afford to lose only two senators in the vote, and the leadership’s strategy of applying pressure by scheduling a vote in haste has been met with skepticism from rank-and-file lawmakers.
Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, a conservative who is opposed to the current draft bill but hopes to support a final version, said Senate GOP leadership was “trying to jam this thing through” on Monday. In an interview with the conservative pundit Hugh Hewitt, Johnson insisted: “You don’t have to do it this week.”
Will losing health insurance mean more US deaths? Experts say yes Read more
White House allies are taking steps to pressure skeptics like Johnson. America First Policies, a Super Pac that supports Trump and includes former top White House staffer Katie Walsh in its leadership, announced a $1m ad campaign against the Nevada Republican Dean Heller.
Heller, who announced his opposition to the current draft bill, is facing re-election in 2018 in his Democratic-leaning home state and is considered the most vulnerable Senate Republican in the midterm elections.
The CBO estimates are unlikely to pacify moderates, who had already voiced doubts about the draconian cuts to Medicaid and potential gutting of coverage for maternity, mental health and addiction.
One moderate Republican, Susan Collins of Maine, came out in opposition to the bill on Monday evening and cited her concerns about the CBO score in doing so. In a tweet, Collins said: “I want to work w/ my GOP & Dem colleagues to fix the flaws in ACA. CBO analysis shows Senate bill won’t do it. I will vote no on [the motion to proceed].”
Sen. Susan Collins (@SenatorCollins) I want to work w/ my GOP & Dem colleagues to fix the flaws in ACA. CBO analysis shows Senate bill won't do it. I will vote no on mtp. 1/3
The deficit savings projected in Monday’s score do provide at least some leeway for leadership to add additional measures designed to alleviate those concerns – such as separate funding to combat America’s opioid epidemic, which has increasingly become a bipartisan priority.
But such a move could risk angering the conservatives who are not only spending hawks but have already argued that the Senate bill does not go far enough in dismantling Obama’s healthcare law.
One prominent conservative, Rand Paul of Kentucky, told reporters on Monday that he would oppose the motion to proceed as well as the underlying bill itself.
[Obamacare] may have done some good for some people, even for 10 million or whatever ... Alabama senator Richard Shelby
Other Republicans were gung-ho about the bill. Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama told reporters that it was essential to repeal Obamacare. “It may have done some good for some people, even for 10 million or whatever,” said the Alabama Republican. “But I think what we’re trying to do is put healthcare on the right path, financially and otherwise.”
Other Senate Republicans were skeptical about the CBO’s numbers. Tim Scott of South Carolina said that the CBO’s assumption that 14 million Americans would lose coverage because of the end of the individual mandate was “unrealistic”.
Marco Rubio of Florida was more forgiving, saying: “I understand that they have to conservatively assume that because they are accountants at the end of the day and accountants always live in the realm of the worst-case scenario and they have to account for it.”
The White House issued an unsigned statement bashing the nonpartisan office, saying “the CBO has consistently proven it cannot accurately predict how healthcare legislation will impact insurance coverage”.
The Senate bill also faced new opposition from the American Medical Association, the trade group of American doctors. The letter stated that the current proposal violates the Hippocratic oath taken by all doctors to “first, do no harm”.
Sign up for the Minute email. Catch up on today’s US politics news in 60 seconds

Generated : 
Waubonsie Hall and More Party, the major defenders of the Trump healthcare bill, say the bill, which has failed to pass the Senate, would leave 26 million Americans without insurance coverage
The Senate’s healthcare bill, which has failed to pass the Senate, would have cut off millions of Americans without insurance and provided to those would be able to buy their own plans, the US Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services said in its latest assessment of the legislation.
For health insurers, the Senate bill would have left 29 million Americans without insurance or their family’s insurance, a full 4% of the population, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. That would have resulted in an overall $900bn loss in the health system.
The CBO previously estimated that 3 million to 5 million people would not be able to buy health insurance in the absence of a Trump healthcare plan, and therefore claimed it could increase the costs of the nation’s health system by $55bn.
Although no estimates were available, Graham Allison, the bill’s sponsor, said in a statement: “This will give Mr Trump the first serious and serious assault on the health system in almost 40 years, and it could become an entitlement and entrapment.”
State governments are expected to refuse to implement the program, known as the individual mandate, on their own.
The Trump administration has vowed to oppose any effort to limit access to health care; on Tuesday a Trump tweet said: “The president of the United States has gone to the polls on a strong mandate to block health care in America.”
The White House quickly deflected those criticism.
“There are no comments from the president,” spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said of the CBO report on Monday. “These programs are designed to help people live better lives, and when people decide to limit access, they want to protect the individual mandate.”
The report estimated it would make federal healthcare under Obamacare far more expensive for enrollees over age 65, at a cost to the US government of $1,480 per adult, compared with $644 at the start of the decade. This would leave the system in deficit after 20 years and would result in a future no budget surplus.
The prospect of the absence of a Trump healthcare plan still loomed over the end of August as Congress rejected a deal from the administration to fund the government until a new start date in September.
The proposal from Republicans – something Democrats haven’t joined with in the last two years – included language to make one-time tax credits for people seeking help, which would have created a national health insurance pool.
The Republican healthcare bill also includes a so-called tax bracket of 30%, but would raise the average payroll tax from the current 4% to 9%.
It also calls for compensating people who buy insurance through the Affordable Care Act exchanges, though it relies heavily on subsidies and lifetime limits on health benefits.
The bill cuts $100bn in federal funding each year for the federal government to help states implement their own health insurance exchanges and subsidies. The other two components of the bill proposed temporary tax credits that would increase the ability of states to offer insurance to consumers. Those would fill the hole created by the number of people who received subsidies but paid federal taxes.
Unlike the congressional Republicans who have, since 2008, refused to cut funding for the Department of Health and Human Services, Donald Trump has proposed for further cuts.
“We have, as we say, seen the waste,” said Richard Cohen, the House of Representatives health committee chairman, who has been a vocal critic of Obamacare, though he has always said that the administration’s plan did not violate the constitution. “However, we understand the congressman’s disappointment with this (tax) bill. We want all Americans to have the opportunity to choose whether they want to go to the doctor, in spite of the fact that there’s an enormous deficit in the Affordable Care Act.”
But while most Republicans in Congress are amenable to making alternative funding streams available in areas not covered by the health law, the fight is far from over.
“This will become the biggest national healthcare overhaul since Watergate, and if you make it so large you have the most conservative members of Congress,” said Brian Schatz, the Hawaii senator, a member of the moderate Republican leadership in the House.
