Title : Groupon Cancels Some Black Friday Nexus 7 Orders
 
Original : 
With stockings hung and only two days until Christmas, Groupon has canceled some orders for Google's Nexus 7 Tablet that were placed on Black Friday.
The consumer watchdog website Consumerist reported that customers were promised delivery as recently as a week ago, but Groupon sent out a notice on Monday along with a $50 credit. Groupon's Facebook page was littered with various complaints about the cancellation, many of which Groupon individually responded to.
See also: 5 Ways To Boost Productivity With Your Tablet
Groupon spokesperson Nick Halliwell told Mashable more than 95% of the orders for the deal had shipped successfully. The shortcoming stemmed from orders placed through a third party vendor, he added.
"Depending on the deal, Groupon either purchases the inventory and ships it to consumers or we sell another vendor's inventory and they drop ship to our customers directly," Halliwell said. "And in some cases, it’s both, which is what happened with the Nexus tablet. We proactively notified these customers to let them know that we were sorry we didn’t deliver the experience we promised, canceled their order and offered a Groupon credit."
Groupon launched the retail portion of its site called Groupon Goods more than two years ago in a bid to diversify from the coupon model growing crowded with competition. In that short time, Goods has already become a major revenue source for the company. With about $252 million in revenues in the third quarter of 2013, the retail arm now accounts for roughly 42% of Groupon's income.
The retail portion of Groupon will need to remain healthy. Its original daily deals business has struggled after peaking in early 2012.
Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.
Image: Scott Olson/Getty

Generated : 
Groupon will be canceling the options of some orders on Friday as well as nearly all Nexus 7 sales so far, a spokeswoman tells Mashable.
Some Groupon options are giving customers the chance to lock in their deals before Thanksgiving; while more are available to let shoppers know they are in the New York borough of Queens. Most Nexus 7 orders will last until March 15, when all Galaxy S6 and Galaxy Note 5 tablets can be ordered, depending on the devices’ model.
For 2013, Groupon wants to introduce two additional deals: Holiday Pass, which includes goods such as key chains, and BlackBerry Black Friday discounts. This is all a one-year jump, and Groupon is offering a small number of additional giveaways that will be rolling out over the course of the holidays.
Anyone who pre-ordered a Groupon Nexus 7 Edition or selected it for Black Friday can order it on Black Friday, according to a statement.
New York-based Groupon — founded in 2008 as a Groupon for gift guides and daily deals — is expanding its assortment of Nexus 7 tablets in New York City. They've been available online for months. The company says the offers are just as good as those from Google.
“Nexus 7 tablets are just as good as any other Google Nexus 7,” Groupon President Randy Cohen said in a statement.
The company said the selection for Groupon gifts is comparable to the Holiday Pass, which involves buyers registering for products for an initial 15 days. The site does not give specifics about the selection.
The Nexus 7 offers a 0.93-percent price on Amazon with a 30 day contract, plus returns, and a 25 day guarantee. That's a total of $14.99, plus $5 for each day the deal expires. Other Nexus 7 options like Samsung Galaxy S5 or Google Nexus 7 Launch are priced at $70 and $100, respectively. The Nexus 7 shipping is $69.
Amazon now has 11 deals for Gift Card promo codes and a promo code for discounts of up to 65 percent on some 2011 and 2013 Kindle eBooks. The Kindle Store features more deals than Google today, including deals on a Starbucks gift card (normally $49), Panasonic DROID HDTVs (average $149.99) and Motorola at $79.99.
Customers who pre-ordered a Groupon Nexus 7 Max or Max Plus can get $2.99 for every one of the devices, while a holiday pass entitles users to 1,900 Nexus 7 boxes for $55.99 each.
