Title : Zayn Malik had it all. Now will he go back to the same old bedroom and the same old football posters?
 
Original : 
Zayn is a cool name. It looks cool when you see it, it sounds cool when you hear it, and when you say it, it does something exciting to the tip of the tongue. Try it ... Zayn. Again.
Zzzzzzayne. Good. Now say Nigel.
And so there were four. One Direction becomes two directions, the first heading all the way to the top, top, top, the other who knows where? Perhaps somewhere more wholesome, real, relaxing, less well-paid, more well-paid, loving, comforting, quieter, softer, homelier, away away away from all that no more enough already need a break need to unplug need to say no, need to not do this any more, need to get away from these faces and voices and this and that and you I hate you I can’t stand being in the same room as you get away from me no I can’t no I should no I can’t don’t be a fool, look at all these riches, the fans the life the jets the cars the spoils the life! Everything I’ve ever wanted, money, fame, girls on tap, I’m a God! HELP MEEEEEEEEE! [Aaaaand rest].
That was a trip. Oh to be Zayn for a day ... I actually worked with Zayn for half a day, him and the rest of Whun-Dee. I got asked to do one of my “hilarious” comedy characters for a spoof photo shoot mock doc thingy to help promote the release of their new perfume. And when they told me how much I’d be getting paid, I released a bit of my own.
Anyway back to the departure of the brownest pop star since George Michael told us about this club he knew, where drinks were free; I think Zayn being a super rich, mega famous, light brown western pop star is a rare thing these days. In fact, the only other brown pop singer anywhere to be seen was last seen flirting outrageously with Bill.I.Am on The Voice a couple of weeks ago before getting booted off right in his chubby camp brown behind.
Zayn might not have got to where he got to on his own no matter how talented or good-looking he is. But he passed the flacid test flanked by some very white guys indeed and in this ensemble, he went about his business. Usual colour/race sensors were somehow overridden, and the brown Muslim kid was allowed to soar to heights he might have soared to anyway had he been taken entirely on his own merits. But now the dream is temporarily over, and the brown kid has floated back down to earth. He’s visible, he’s vulnerable, he’s alone. Holy shit, he’s browner than ever! He’s getting called names: “Love cheat!” shouts the Sun, “Stealth Jihadi!” screams a blogging troll. How dare he get in under the radar and get rich and famous and powerful while 100 million screaming daughters drowned out our protestations. He’s a sitting duck now.
What exactly did he mean by “hashtagfreepalestine?” Hmm? He’s gonna pay now, you wait and see.
Of course, all this race talk is all for effect. The boy done good and he’s going to come back in the words of some daft-looking punks; harder, better, faster, stronger. Will Wand-erection survive his departure? Sure they will.
One Direction … (left to right) Harry Styles, Zayn Malik, Liam Payne, Niall Horan and Louis Tomlinson. Photograph: David Fisher/Rex
I imagine him saying his goodbyes to his bandmates in some hotel lobby in Rio before flying home first class, his fellow passengers not having a clue. His family meet him at Leeds Bradford Airport, hugs’n’tears all round. He is driven home in a cousin’s minivan.
Staring out at a thousand familiar sights, he arrives at his same old family home greeted by more family and friends, all full of love and more hugs and all the homemade chicken pakora he can eat. And then Zayn says his goodnights and retires to his same old bedroom. It has the same old carpet, the same old football posters on the walls, the same old cuddly toys by his bed, the same old torn Ikea lampshade hanging from the ceiling, the same old WWF bedsheets on the bed, the same old collection of Nike Air Max 90 trainers lining his skirting board, the same old school photos by his desk, the same old sports day medals hanging in his wardrobe, the same old collection of hair products sitting on his chest of drawers, the same old orange street light glaring through his window, the same old Sony Trinitron telly sat in the corner atop a dusty old DVD/VHS combo player next to the same old VHS recordings of his first ever X Factor appearances and the same old copy of his favourite DVD cult classic Four Lions and a Fonejacker/Facejacker box set. He looks at them, smiles and thinks to himself “Kayvan ... cool name”.
Fonejacker/Facejacker box set and Four Lions are both very much available on Amazon.

Generated : 
On a night out at the movies when he didn’t deliver a group or choir, probably from the Weekend magazine. Photograph: Charles Dharapak
But who was he?
Admittedly, even in the autocratic shadow of father Abu Qatada, Zayn Malik had grown so accustomed to the theatre that he grew to be such a unique and devastating presence that he appeared almost lovable on even short videos.
Zayn’s suicide this week on twitter and references to his closed-door ordeal in Qatar – as he’s been proved on the stand – suggest an equally remarkable presence in a country which practically used to monitor his every move.
One might counter that Malik only lasted for hours, and there’s no hard evidence that he started dropping his clothes to cope with his humiliation. Or, on the contrary, say some unpleasant images and images have become part of Malik’s lifestyle.
Also, sources say that he has spoken out about security warnings he received after taking the plunge, which had been casually pointed at people from certain groups, although not any of the more aggressive, Sunni Islamic groups in general.
I didn’t sit down and look at Zayn’s profile. This is annoying. It makes me think he might no longer have been "gangbanging" with his fellow Brits. Is he all alone in Germany? Or is he forced to share his exploits with the police? Maybe there’s no point in sitting down and looking at his profile picture in full let’s-cry-wolf. But he may be the same – and now will be.
This isn’t just a point of oblivion. It’s one of insecurity. Until something like this happens to him, he may not find himself in a safe zone any more – the culture, or the buzz, that was so strong up until he deleted himself. Or, maybe it was all political revenge, waiting at his own risk to overshadow the many societal frustrations that made him such a career-defining figure last year. In this case, like Abu Qatada, there’s nothing special about it.
Is Zayn Malik a man of contradictions, judging by the amount of media attention he’s garnered, that he doesn’t accept that he wasn’t the only man with this and that theory? Could it be that – for good or ill? – this is the man we had ahead of us?
For better or worse, we’re going to carry on talking about his stubbornness in the face of such anger and fury. People will get upset because this is a clash of personalities that has no place in culture. And then, without trying to insult – or blame – anyone and anything, we can’t recover from this blunder. It’s dangerous for us to look at “other” minorities as linked to the same things that another man endured.
There’s no disputing that Malik, who he’s addressed in the past on Twitter, is a misunderstood person. He doesn’t appear to believe that Islam or Christianity are all evil and that he wasn’t the way he was meant to be.
There are signs he’s changing his ways, particularly in terms of humor. And also, while young adults have alienated him, Malik has shown no signs of making any more than an occasional blunder during his TV interview this week.
You could argue that some of his decisions were in part prevented by haste. But it was the size of his life that was the saving grace. Zayn may have simply lost it in both the surge of respect he has received and the violence he has suffered. Maybe his moment of notoriety – his go-to for weird and lonely moments – was too short. But he may have found a new phase in which he’s re-born himself at a faster pace than he anticipated.
The outcry over his suicide – and the further socialisation of the world’s troubles – has been so bad that the news coverage has been hard for everyone to absorb. It’s a feeling Malik will now relish. Or at least a sense of peace.
