Title : 5 of the worst things that have happened on Black Friday
 
Original : 
Pearl Gabel/Pearl Gabel/ New York Daily News The most manic shopping day is almost here and it has often led to violence.
It’s almost time for the annual Black Friday frenzy of bargain hunters.
After a turkey-induced food coma, stores across the nation start dishing out door-buster deals as early as Thursday evening.
For some stores, the crazy sales have led to frequent brawls, viral videos of frantic chaos and occasional violence between shoppers.
Here are five of the most disastrous incidents that have occurred on the year’s busiest shopping day:
1. 2013: Stampede death
Xanthos Julia/NY Daily News/Xanthos Julia/NY Daily News Jdimytai Damour was crushed to death during Black Friday at a Long Island Walmart.
One of the most tragic Black Friday stories involved the crushing death of a temporary Walmart worker in Valley Stream, N.Y.
Jdimytai Damour, a 34-year-old security worker at the retail giant, was trampled to death by a mob of shoppers, police said in 2013.
The 6-foot-5 Damour was knocked down by scores of crazed customers, who had flocked to the store in the wee hours of the morning for mega deals on flat screen TVs.
Since then, Walmart said it has implemented tighter security.
The department store also forked over a large amount of cash to youth programs in Nassau County to avoid criminal prosecution.
Four other people were injured by the stampede of shoppers, including an eight-month pregnant woman who miscarried as a result.
2. 2012: Post-shopping car accident
This Black Friday horror story didn’t occur inside a store, but as a California family was heading home.
After a long night of shopping, the Tandel family of six squeezed into a Lexus SUV early Saturday morning in 2012, officials said.
The family had been shopping for the eldest daughter’s upcoming wedding.
The father, who had only had three hours of sleep, nodded off and crashed the family’s vehicle in Palo Alto, Calif.
The roll-over crash killed his 24-year-old daughter, who was set to marry, and her 20-year-old sister, officials said.
The father of four was charged with vehicular manslaughter in 2013.
FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK
3. 2011: Pepper spray injuries
Daniel Acker/Bloomberg In 2011, a woman was accused of firing pepper spray at a crowd of shoppers.
Black Friday took an ugly turn again when one mad bargain hunter took desperate measures at a Los Angeles Wal-Mart, police said in 2011.
A 32-year-old southern California woman was accused of dousing a waiting crowd with pepper spray while she took off with a discounted Xbox.
About 20 shoppers suffered minor injuries from the irritant.
However, the competitive shopper was not charged.
The young woman claimed self-defense against shoppers gone-wild and told police she fired the stinging spray because shoppers were attacking her children for their X-Box.
Police ruled their wasn’t enough evidence to charge the woman.
4. 2010: Toys for Tots stabbing
A heroic deed almost turned deadly when a U.S. Marine reservist was stabbed trying to stop a fleeing thief on Black Friday, officials said in 2010.
The shoplifter was caught on camera trying to snatch a laptop at a Best Buy in Augusta, Ga and when employees tried to stop his sticky hands, the man made a run for it, pulling a knife as he dashed for the doors.
Four Marines working a Toys for Tots charity bin at the store were able to stop the man but one was stabbed in the back.
The Marine survived his injury and the would-be robber was apprehended.
5. 2009: TV shooting
Christie M Farriella for NYDN Detectives look at a flat-screen television in the middle of 223 Street in Queens - the target of would-be robbers who shot a 64-year-old man on Black Friday 2009.
A TV was behind another Black Friday disaster when an elderly Queens man was shot over his new flat-screen device, police said in 2009.
Three robbers ambushed the 64-year-old man and shot him in the stomach.
It was some just desserts though when the bandits tried to take off with the new gadget — but the set didn’t fit in their getaway car.
The thieves fled without their coveted item and were not apprehended, while the man survived the shooting.
FOLLOW US ON TWITTER
mdostis@nydailynews.com

Generated : 
"Last weekend I finally figured out that I need to buy a bunch of my clothes on Black Friday," said Travel Long Island resident Katie Lee, who loves calling and visiting friends while hoping to look good on the budget.
Lee plans to buy only a few things on Black Friday, and only $10 for its mega-destination shopping spree — Costco.
“Walmart, Target, Best Buy, whoever that is. I really hate it. I know they want it to be a pre-Christmas and they seem to have a lot of discount listings on their websites," she said.
Fleetwood Mac frontman Ian Smith’s outfits had to be on sale, a 40-year-old woman named Courtney Owen told CBS New York in one of the "Best We Have" of Black Friday sales.
Some retailers have hidden tricks — but it was all part of a greater effort to trick shoppers into enjoying a bargain at the same time as an unwanted Target gift card.
And don't forget that once you rush into the store because your Mother is ignoring you, your wallet is of no use.
And especially if the same person at the same time is sending you your credit card instead.
In a worse case scenario, people tricked to buy Obama's sneakers, shoes or iPhone. They split it in half.
At the mall, Target Target's customers told various sources they used the sneaker that was given to president Obama.
Manhattan resident Paul Krauss shared his advice — watch the videos below.
