Title : Apptio beats Wall Street expectations in 1st quarter as public company, posts $4.5M operating loss
 
Original : 
In its first earnings report since going public in September, Apptio reported an operating loss of $4.5 million, excluding certain expenses, but the Bellevue, Wash.-based company still exceeded Wall Street expectations.
Apptio, which makes software to help CIOs better understand spending in IT departments, posted a non-GAAP net loss of 45 cents per share on what it said was a record $40.6 million in revenue, an increase of 26 percent over this time last year. A group of seven analysts surveyed in advance by Yahoo Finance expected an average loss of 50 cents per share on about $37.9 million in revenue.
“The momentum continues to build for Apptio and the (technology business management) category,” said Sunny Gupta, Apptio co-founder and CEO, in a statement. This quarter, we generated record quarterly revenues of over $40 million and significantly improved operating margins while acquiring new customers across the Global 10,000.”
He added, “The global trends of digitalization and cloud migration are a tailwind for our large and growing market. In the third quarter, we successfully completed our IPO, continued to innovate across our product portfolio and extended our market leadership.”
Even though revenues have topped $100 million for the past two years, losses also grew, and the company has yet to turn a profit. But losses appear to be slowing, as Apptio’s third quarter loss of $4.5 million represents a 52 percent decrease from the $7.4 million it lost last year at this time.
In the fourth quarter, Apptio expects total revenue between $41.5 million and $42.5 million, and a non-GAAP operating loss of $8 million to $9 million. For the year, Apptio expects to post between $157.7 million and $158.7 million in revenue and a loss between $21.9 million and $22.9 million.
Becoming profitable is one of Apptio’s goals, and in a conversation with GeekWire shortly after the IPO, Apptio co-founder and Chief Financial Officer Kurt Shintaffer said that will come as the business grows.
First and foremost we think about growth. We think about building a really meaningful company with thousands of customers and serving them all over the world. But we also understand that we do need to generate cash flows from our operations, and we are really excited about our ability to do that in the near term. It primarily comes with scaling our business, that’s the primary driver for a business like Apptio to achieve cash flows, and so our strategy of acquiring customers and building great products so they want to continue to work with us really is the strategy to become cash flow positive.
After setting a price of $16 per share for its initial public offering in late September Apptio stock soared more than 40 percent on its first day. But it came down to earth the following week and has hovered between $19 and $20 per share since. Apptio raised $99.1 million in its IPO.
Part of growing the company is hiring the right people. Last month Apptio brought in former T-Mobile and Telstra CIO Erez Yarkoni as executive vice president of strategy. His focus will be on building the next 1,000 Apptio customers, the company says.

Generated : 
Voice recognition app apptio reported net loss of $4.5 million in its first quarter, but still managed to top Wall Street expectations as it reported nearly an impressive year-over-year increase in revenue over last year’s first quarter.
The Seattle company’s shares surged 80 percent in pre-market trading on Thursday, after analysts and investors closely followed the company’s growth.
Named after its co-founder, Mike Tse, who was once released by Microsoft, including CEO Mark Cuban, the company initially raised an initial round of funding in 2014 but was eventually blocked by a class action lawsuit that halted Tse’s hiring.
On Oct. 14, Tse filed a claim with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that accused the company of increasing its monthly sales rates to include its customer data in its search ranking algorithm, rather than spreading its exposure to subscribers across more than six different carriers. The lawsuit was ultimately resolved on a legal basis but the company didn’t disclose whether it intended to take the case to the appeals court.
The company received a $7.6 million settlement in the case in July but has since removed Tse from the case, according to its quarterly filing. After the settlement, the company continued to rent thousands of Tse employees around the world, with plans to return 100 or so to the Seattle-based firm.
“I am extremely proud of how our employees and loyal customers have embraced our product and service, and we have shown leadership in building greater awareness around Tse right across the company,” Tse said in a press release. “I look forward to continuing the relationship with them and helping them realize their vision.”
