Title : Vernon Davis says all he's all about 49ers and football
 
Original : 
His brand?
Please. That's so several weeks ago.
Vernon Davis is now all about his band of brothers.
Speaking a day after he ended his offseason contract holdout by reporting on time for training camp, the 49ers' Pro Bowl tight end said Thursday that he wasn't focused on his future earnings. In fact, he'll leave those off-the-field matters to the 49ers and his agent.
His message: It's all about the team, the team, the team.
"It was a very easy decision," Davis said of reporting on time. "All you had to do was think about the team. That's what I did. I thought about my teammates, especially some of the guys like (running back) Frank Gore and the guys on the last end of their contract. Guys who I love and would die for. There's nothing like being here. There's nothing like it. It's such a blessing."
Later, Davis added: "Anytime that I'm away from these guys, I'm hurting. I'm hurting. And it really hurt me to be away from this group because we have such a special group."
In June, before he skipped the 49ers' mandatory minicamp, Davis said he was focused on "building his brand" as he made the media rounds in New York to promote his unique partnership with Fantex Inc. Through Fantex, investors can purchase a stock tied to Davis' NFL career. Fantex paid Davis $4 million in return for 10 percent of his future earnings from football, endorsements or any other income tied to his career.
"You know what, every decision I make is in the best interest of my brand," Davis said in June. "At the end of the day, we sometimes have to make a business decision. And my decision is to work out on my own and focus on building my brand."
On Thursday, Davis downplayed his desire for a new contract, saying "everybody always wants a deal." He has two years remaining on a five-year, $37 million extension he signed in 2010. His $7.4 million average annual salary ranks fourth among tight ends.
It's possible the 49ers still could negotiate a new deal. In 2011, Gore signed a three-year extension four weeks after he ended a four-day training camp holdout. Davis, however, insisted he has moved beyond the contract dispute.
"That's in the past," he said. "I'm not really worried about my contract. That's between the team and my agent."
Last season, Davis had 52 catches, 850 yards and accounted for 13 of quarterback Colin Kaepernick's 21 touchdown passes. Davis became the only tight end in NFL history to have two 13-touchdown seasons.
In 2013, Davis' production dipped a bit when wide receiver Michael Crabtree returned from a torn Achilles in November. Davis could have more competition for passes with the offseason additions of wideouts Stevie Johnson and Brandon Lloyd.
When asked about the 49ers' improved group of wide receivers Thursday, Davis didn't stray from his theme: the team, the team, the team.
"At the end of the day, if I'm just blocking, that's good, too," Davis said. "And they're catching passes? That works for me as well."

Generated : 
Columnist Keith Franklin revealed the mix at the NFL owners meeting on Monday morning. While many of the NFL owners expressed no interest in telling Reid Reid, the embattled 49ers general manager, who’s been at constant loggerheads with San Francisco for the past two months, to let him go.
Delink (and another of his press conferences) did. He watched Reid hop on a radio show and back to his job before jumping to the 49ers (and news about a return visit from Cowboys’ wide receiver Dez Bryant) just two days later.
Franklin doesn’t know much about Davis and his connection to his family. But it’s probably a good thing Davis has asked Reid to get his last word and let him go when he thinks he can regain his health.
The 49ers might not have to with Davis, but the organization didn’t.
That’s the message in Davis’ locker. He’s very much an in-demand commodity in the locker room. He was among the 49ers’ top receivers for the last two weeks, catching 66 passes for 891 yards with four touchdowns in losses to the Vikings and Packers.
“I think he’s going to throw the ball and play with his numbers up in the future,” Raiders linebacker Terrell Davis said of Davis, who reached 1,003 yards and six touchdowns in five games against Green Bay and Minnesota. “I know I still need to work with him and get those numbers up. That’s how I would always look forward to the big game.”
Davis should be required to return to the team in a matter of weeks, though he’s asked multiple teams to give him permission to come back.
