Title : Germany captain Philipp Lahm retires from international football
 
Original : 
Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, has paid tribute to Philipp Lahm after the World Cup-winning captain announced his retirement from international football. Lahm had told the Germany coach, Joachim Löw, of his decision the day after the trophy in Rio de Janeiro and on Friday laid bare his feelings in an open letter on the German FA’s website.
“Over the course of last season, I made up my mind that I was going to end my international career after the World Cup,” he said. “I informed the Germany coach Joachim Löw of this decision on Monday at breakfast.
“I am happy and thankful that the end of my national team career coincided with winning the World Cup in Brazil. I have been on holiday for the past three days and have had the quiet and time to mentally come to terms with the end of my national team career. A heartfelt thank you for a wonderful time.”
Lahm raised the World Cup after Germany defeated Argentina in the final on Sunday through Mario Götze’s extra-time goal. The team then flew back to Berlin to be greeted by half a million fans on Tuesday, with their normally self-effacing captain letting his hair down to play air guitar in the celebrations.
Lahm played in his customary attacking right-back position at the Maracanã after Löw had begun the tournament by trying him in his alternative role of all-purpose midfielder. However, he struggled to make an impact there as his side struggled past the USA and then drew with Ghana in the group games.
After the narrow victory over Algeria in the last 16, he was moved to full-back and a better-balanced Germany stepped up a gear to brush aside France and then humiliate the hosts, Brazil 7-1, in the semi-finals.
“Philipp is a model professional who subordinates everything to success. Winning the world title has crowned an outstanding career,” Löw said. “He is a great player with heart, passion and character, who has done much for the DFB. Philip will remain a key pillar for FC Bayern. Sporting-wise and personally I wish him all the best. Thank you, Philipp.” Merkel echoed those sentiments when she said: “I’d like to express my respect for what he achieved with the national team.”
Lahm, 30, made his international debut in 2004 and went on to play 113 times for Germany, taking over the captaincy from Michael Ballack in 2010 to lead the team in South Africa where they were beaten by the eventual winners Spain in the semi-finals.
He will continue to play for Bayern Munich, whom he also captains, having recently extended his contract with the German champions to 2018. The club said the decision to retire from Germany had taken them by surprise.
“There is hardly a better farewell than to be a world champion at the peak of your career,” their chairman, Karl-Heinz Rummenigge, told the club website. “But for the national team, it will not be easy to replace Lahm as a player, captain and a man.” Besides the World Cup, Lahm has won the Bundesliga five times, the German Cup five times and the Champions League, all with Bayern.
The president of the German FA, Wolfgang Niersbach said: “Philipp has called me this morning and informed me about this decision. In the conversation I very quickly realised that it was futile to want to talk him out of it. He was in his 10 years playing for the national team not only an outstanding player, but always an absolute role model. I thanked him for everything he has done for the DFB.”
Career honours
World Cup 2014
Club World Cup 2013
Champions League 2013
German championship 2006, 2008, 2010, 2013, 2014
DFB Cup 2006, 2008, 2010, 2013, 2014
DFL Supercup 2010, 2012
DFB League Cup 2007
Other honours Champions League finalist 2010, 2012; third place at the 2006 and 2010 World Cup; Euro 2008 runner-up

Generated : 
German captain Philipp Lahm has announced that he will not play for the German national team until 2015 at the earliest, after undergoing his second of two knee operations.
The 28-year-old Lahm, now captain of Bayern Munich, guided the Bavarians to three Bundesliga titles in his first season back in 2005. He followed up his remarkable career in the Bundesliga with two more victories in 2009 and 2010, and the two championships followed by one in 2010.
Lahm has suffered a setback this summer, having cartilage replaced in his right knee in June, having been handed a month off from international duty and working with the national team for the first time since 2006. The deal with Bayern Munich, however, is unlikely to see him play in any international matches.
"The doctors told me that it is necessary to rest for a few days and with proper medication to stabilize it, I will prepare for my next match," Lahm said. "However, I am feeling relieved, not a problem. I have been working on my side of the pitch this summer, which is essential."
Rwanda will also face Germany in two friendlies in Bosnia and Herzegovina next month, before the German league campaign begins, and Lahm, Germany's only man of the game, will be hoping to run into playing heavyweights like Thomas Muller and Thomas Muller.
