Title : Alliance for Retired Americans endorses Democrat Ed Markey for U.S. Senate seat in Massachusetts
 
Original : 
Ed Markey, Gabriel Gomez and more at Western Massachusetts U.S. Senate Springfield debate
The Western Massachusetts senatorial debate between Democratic Congressman Ed Markey and Republican Gabriel Gomez was held Tuesday evening in the studios of WGBY in Springfield. Here is Markey talking to the press after the debate. (Staff photo by Dave Roback)
With less than two weeks until voters elect a new U.S. senator from Massachusetts, Democrat
has landed another endorsement. The
, a nationwide organization advocating for the interests of aging Americans, cited Markey's record as a congressman as the primary reason for endorsing him over Republican Senate hopeful Gabriel Gomez. "In the most recent Alliance Congressional Voting Record, Rep. Markey maintained his perfect 100 percent lifetime score,” said Edward Coyle, executive director of the alliance in a statement. "He has been a leader in opposing any changes to our Social Security that would cut benefits for our nation's seniors, including misguided proposals to raise the retirement age or reduce cost of living adjustments." In an accompanying statement, Massachusetts AFL-CIO President Steven Tolman, a Markey supporter, criticized Gomez's proposal to raise the retirement age for Social Security benefits for future retirees. "As Massachusetts seniors get ready to head to the polls for a special election in two weeks, they face a choice between a proven champion in Ed Markey and a candidate in Gabriel Gomez who has pledged to fall in line with the Republican orthodoxy of cutting benefits and raising the retirement age for Social Security and Medicare," Tolman said. Cyole also took aim at Gomez for his
to calculate cost of living adjustments, which would result in lower benefits being paid out by the program. "Gomez is in favor of implementing the chained CPI cut to Social Security benefits and raising the retirement age,” said Coyle. “In the Senate, Gabriel Gomez would be another vote for an extreme agenda that would cut Social Security benefits and balance the budget on the backs of our nation’s seniors – an agenda that would leave seniors to fend for themselves after a lifetime of hard work. Seniors can’t afford to send Gabriel Gomez to Washington.” The Gomez campaign, responding to a
, claimed the Markey campaign is using fear to persuade seniors to vote for the Democratic congressman. "Ed Markey is scaring and misleading our seniors because he’s afraid to admit what both President Obama and I know is true: if we want to save and protect our entitlement system for future generations of our seniors, the time for reform is now," Gomez said in a statement. All non-partisan polls in the special U.S. Senate election have showed Markey leading over Gomez, but by conflicting margins. The most recent
concluded that Markey holds only a seven-point lead – a conclusion identical to a Suffolk University poll released on Monday. Meanwhile, the Markey campaign has pointed to a
that concluded the race was a dead heat as it makes one of the race's final fundraising pitches to supporters. On Tuesday, both
On June 18, their final debate will be held at WGBH's studios in Brighton. The election to determine which candidate will serve out the remainder of John Kerry's term in the Senate takes place on June 25.

Generated : 
Election 2013 - By Robert Rizzuto
Former Massachusetts Gov. Ed Markey became the second Democrat seeking the nomination to fill the vacancy left by Gov. Deval Patrick's resignation on Monday, formally endorsing Washington's Republican nominee, Ed Markey.
The coalition, headed by the American Partnership for Retired Americans, saw a close race in the May 12 Republican primary for the U.S. Senate seat being vacated by Patrick who stepped down in May after a campaign war with Patrick's GOP challenger, Thomas J. DeBlasio.
"I have already met with Patrick about my interest in leaving office in January, but I've been looking for the right candidate and I feel like we've found a candidate who could beat Patrick," Markey said at a press conference Monday afternoon to announce the alliance for Congress in Washington DC.
Malkin, also an American Partnership national chairperson, acknowledged that as "one of the few centrist Democrats in the Senate ... I've been discussing with Patrick and trying to find a credible candidate."
"That's why I'm endorsing Ed Markey for U.S. Senate this fall," Malkin said. "Some of you may recognize me from my time as speaker of the Massachusetts House, and I really believe that Ed can challenge Gov. Patrick for that high office in 2016."
Malkin also addressed the question of whether Markey would be the best choice for retiring Rep. Charlie Baker, whom the alliance said he would lose to out-of-state Republican candidate for Senate Beryl Spencer, for whom voters chose. Malkin said the only reason Spencer picked Markey in November was because of the senator's decision to cut his political contributions.
Malkin also spoke of changing the political landscape in Massachusetts, in which 36 percent of primary voters said they had no idea who had a chance to replace Pat Leahy as Massachusetts' state representative. A majority of that 48 percent said they didn't know.
"The idea of having a four-year appointment to fill a vacancy ... is sad, but it is possible for it to be paid for. So do we need a four-year appointment," Malkin said.
In his endorsement Markey said, "I am proud of Ed and for the accomplishments of the Massachusetts people over the last few years, especially with the retirement of Governor Patrick. Many of my colleagues have held a distinct level of integrity and courage during difficult times. Those who challenge Patrick in his political life will be able to pick a replacement. My strong support for Ed Markey is up for debate."
Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., is also a supporter of Markey. McCaskill is the incoming majority leader in the Senate, where she left Massachusetts to serve as a U.S. senator while heading up the Democratic side.
Doug Asante, director of public policy for the Vermont chapter of the American Partnership for Retired Americans, called Markey a real choice for the "bridge nation."
"This election was one of the loudest, most civil and consistent voices that Maine's senators have heard in all my years as state representative," Asante said. "The fact that Ed has beaten Patrick for U.S. Senate in a race that is closer than ever before shows just how strong the American Revolution was in response to independence for Maine."
