Title : Is there a Rihanna sex tape? No, it's a malware scam on Facebook
 
Original : 
There is no sex tape of Rihanna and her boyfriend doing the rounds online. You can’t see who’s been looking at your Facebook profile. And you can’t change your Facebook colour either.
This may all sound obvious, but according to antivirus firm Bitdefender, these are the most popular malware scams on the social network in 2014.
The company has published a list of the top 10 Facebook scams, with the fake app promising to tell you your Facebook views and visitors by far the most popular, accounting for 30.2% of bogus links it identified on the social network this year.
Clicking on any of them will lead Facebook users to sites that try to install viruses on their computers, as malware developers continue to seek new ways to spread their software to unsuspecting victims.
The chart is good news for Taylor Swift and Disneyland, who both featured in Bitdefender’s list a year ago. Swift’s non-existent sex tape and an offer of a free trip to Disneyland have fallen from the top 10 over the last 12 months.
“Why do people still want to see who has been taking a peek at their profile, despite all security warnings? I think they believe these are legitimate apps,” said chief security strategist Catalin Cosoi.
“This is social engineering at its finest – a challenging mental game that pushes the right psychological buttons. The baits have changed over time, with stalkers, peekers, admirers, overly attached girlfriends and exes haunting you, but the reason this scam works is simple: human nature.”
As with much news of this type, the company responsible for the research also has a commercial agenda: Bitdefender has its own Facebook app that alerts people to potentially-fraudulent posts.
The threat is real, however: Facebook’s sheer size – it had 1.32 billion active users in the second quarter of 2014 – makes it an obvious target for malware developers hoping to infect gullible users.
The full list of popular Facebook scams is below: suffice to say, if you see any of these sentences appear in your news feed, clicking on them would be an extremely bad idea.
Top 10 Facebook scams, 2014
1. Total profile views/visitors – 30.20%
2. Change your Facebook Color/Colour – 7.38%
3. Rihanna sex tape with her boyfriend – 4.76%
4. Check my status update to get free Facebook T-shirt – 4.21%
5. Say goodbye to Blue Facebook – 2.76%
6. Unsealed. We are giving them away for free – 2.41%
7. Check if a friend has deleted you – 2.27%
8. See your top 10 profile peekers here! – 1.74%
9. Find out how to see who viewed your profile – 1.55%
10. Just changed my Facebook theme. It’s amazing – 1.50%
• If you see these knickers in your Facebook feed, don’t click

Generated : 
The singer is the lead singer of the massively popular independent rock band the National, and before she turned up to sing on "Rude Boy" she entered the world via Twitter
Fans of the super-hyped songwriting duo Rihanna might well be asking themselves: Is there any chance that this is actually a deep-sea sex tape being set up?
It is a scam disguised as an ad for a sex addiction website. But although it seems a scam, screenshots of a website suggesting a sex tape exist that have allegedly been made by someone who didn't hack Rihanna and is filming them on set – and no word on how many of them they are – is too chilling to consider.
Ironically, the hacker behind the incident is locked into the internet space and might be taking money from the sales of sold-out performances and advertiser mileage each time a sale reaches their paymasters.
The national backing band, Def Jam in particular, are a global sign of the celebrity status of Rihanna. They entered the world via Twitter last week, but now as they celebrate the 40th anniversary of their debut album Red, the platinum-selling band have started to post links to their Twitter account. One blogger, who wished to remain anonymous, told the Guardian: "In the UK, when you’re Brits there’s pressure on the providers to ‘make their service cost more’, as profits are capped. That's why we do local service online. But the prices paid by U.S. music providers can be higher."
Undeterred, Timberlake seemed to be on the right track. "I've never done this before," he tweeted.
However, one audience member said: "This is legit! What can Rihanna say?"
So if Rihanna is in need of a handsome sounding suit and a sash, why would she want to share it with the world?
"There's a background in the business where people are making the music, but it's also home-grown, and when people hear her music, they might remember her name. There's a note being given to the catalog of people who don't have heard her music. Now there's the chance that someone could give the [anti-bullying] card. Here is the music for Rihanna that you'd like to call your phone, but you need your phone to play."
There is something else to note about a Rihanna-symbol coupling. "Fekkai, Instagram and the constant strobing around the house are completely alien to Rihanna," the blogger added.
Does this mean Rihanna is using the slightly scarier reputation as a celebrity pariah?
"Rihanna is social media-obsessed and didn't want to put any distance between herself and people, just her. She'll push back and make you believe in herself. The likelihood is that someone would probably try to undermine that. Because of her clothing choice and how she used her creativity in a way that's particularly aggressive, it's easy to overlook."
It's possible Rihanna will use her youthful "vainness" to inspire her new song and performance, but she also knows how to make you laugh.
"She handles most material according to these expectations. Here is RiRi singing a song called 'sail, the upshot was her use of electric scissors and a fake gun," an audience member said. "Those little wrinkles have resulted in her increased weight, appears to be almost flat, and has an exaggerated personality, so the following version of the song was not affected. As to what the recording was about, it got mocked, but it was clearly responsible for a reduction in her image on Twitter and Facebook."
Alternatively, Rihanna could do nothing about it herself. "There's no way to find out if Rihanna has been in the studio with this producer or how she obtained this distribution. The majority of stars just try to make friends through Twitter and YouTube, but it can be challenging to be a recording artist without media exposure."
Rihanna at home?
Someone else in her position may also need to work on that. "Rihanna's fans love and hate her," said one panelist. "She gets her fan base in with her music, she's cool and seems to let the world know that she supports people who feel differently than she does."
