Title : From activism to arrest: one polar bear's adventure with Flood Wall Street
 
Original : 
The polar bear joined the Flood Wall Street protests on Monday in New York City. The bear danced with the crowds as they descended into the city’s financial district, the same area where Occupy Wall Street demonstrated (albeit without bears).
Photo: Bryan Thomas/Getty Photograph: Bryan Thomas/Getty Images
The bear joined a sit-in, during which protesters desperately tried to tell a police officer about the connection between capitalism and environmental destruction. Not only did the officer not sign their petition, he ruined the bear’s afternoon by not making eye contact at all.
Photo: Seth Wenig/AP
The bear rested for a moment with two Captains Planet and linked arms with a man itching his goatee.
Photo: Seth Wenig/AP
One of the largest predatory land mammals on earth was caught on video by the Guardian’s Adam Gabbatt, who also saw a dog draped in the protest finery of an old T-shirt with some magic marker on it.
The wise old Arctic emissary smiled at a human interlocutor, wondering what possible iteration of roar, growl or ursine rumble she could understand without fleeing in terror. The bear seemed to enjoy being a media darling.
Photo Andrew Kelly/EPA
Standing proudly with the protesters, at least 50 of whom were eventually taken into custody, the bear did not realise that a monstrous ‘Fossil Fool’ lurked behind him, bedecked in some kind of tube outfit.
Photo: Timothy A Clary/AFP/Getty
The bear lingered restlessly at the barricade’s edge, trying hard to look inconspicuous for his big move.
Photo: Timothy A Clary/AFP/Getty
The polar bear leapt majestically over the barricade, pausing for a moment mid-leap for his balding friend to help him get his foot unstuck, majestically.
Photo: Timothy A Clary/AFP/Getty
The bear then accepted the help of a weary protester who had seen this coming from a mile away, because polar bears as a species grow to enormous size and are almost impossible to miss in Manhattan.
Photo: Timothy A Clary/AFP/Getty
By late afternoon, the bear’s fame was spreading to Twitter.
As evening descended, after about 50 protesters refused to move from an intersection, the polar bear ended the night in handcuffs:
The bear, paws ready to be cuffed, considered telling police that the trick’s on them, he’s a man in a suit, really, and they they can’t take him to animal jail, he’s too beautiful for that.
Photo: Seth Wenig/AP
By 2am, the polar bear had made bail, and emerged triumphantly from people jail.
Shortly after 3am, the bear reunited with the Captains Planet.

Generated : 
Sean Powers said: ‘A rhino who wanted to be a politician took a bus to express his love of public service’
Born in Afghanistan in 1983, Sean Powers, 46, took a bus to work on a hillside with another of his three sons – 11 years older than him – in London’s Bootleas. “The idea of going on to public service is pretty basic,” Powers said.
Sean, a university dropout, went on to become deputy treasurer of the Conservative party at the time and became a deputy mayor of Havering in June 2005 – after taking a seat on a local council.
He was so fixated on pursuing a political career in the spotlight that he almost lost interest in politics. In the absence of chief executive ambitions, the Kiwi-born dad decided to put his full efforts into the pursuit of a political career.
His trip down the Wild Hibernia river south-west in England began, when he was 5ft 10, and finished in London, where he completed a visit to the logo shops and found himself spending hours in the country’s biggest metals dam and the country’s prime M25 outside London.
Powers had to follow a bunch of other boys with 12-year-old Dutch boy Michael. He and his brother started living in the “if you can squeeze it” world, working in peak-time aluminium plants, when bored teenagers couldn’t play around with their laptops because there were too many different sizes, or if they were about to stand up in front of the TV and stare at television – and so on.
Fourteen of his brothers later took to the political scene, and Powers joined the 2005 Conservative party leadership contest to guide Nigel Farage from the European parliament to the leadership.
Then, as the younger, stronger Powers earned a reputation among local activists for his attempt to carve out a political life in swashbuckling fashion. “You can certainly get a bit carried away in that kind of regime,” Powers said.
“You just have to realise that people like to push the button and that’s what I did. They did it because they believed in their own freedom and it’s a challenge for someone who is normally working on the local level or is elected to council.”
Farage’s early career in the party forced him to realise: “My politics were drawn from my background,” he said. “To complete my path and then me coming forward as a Democrat, it seemed like – even for the sake of it – I didn’t quite fit into that. But then I thought, ‘I don’t feel like I’m that talented’.”
He was elected to parliament in his 60s and was rewarded for working hard to enhance the party’s image. But in 2005 he was sacked from the Labour party, his next election seriously slumped. He decided he should return to politics – following a conviction in his own right for attempting to overthrow the government and was convicted on four charges of conspiracy to influence a public official. He finally received a civil court-ordered leave of absence in 2006, almost 12 years after he had formally lost his appeal.
