Title : Wall Street has a thing for underwear
 
Original : 
Wall Street apparently has a curious infatuation with underwear stocks.
Shares of L Brands (LB), a company behind Victoria’s Secret, are up 68 cents, or 0.8%, to $89.45 Thursday on the heels of better-than-expected quarterly profit. Profit beat expectations by nearly 2%.
But today’s L Brands gain is just the latest leg-up for what’s been a surprising source of powerful strength for the market coming off the 2007 lows: underwear stocks. Three of the nine stocks that have rallied back from the March 2009 lows with the most gusto, Under Armour (UA), Hanesbrands (HBI) and L Brands, make intimate apparel. These are stocks that are up huge – despite being pummeled 70% or more between the Oct. 2007 market high through the March 2009 low.
A custom-weighted index of the three underwear makers is up 1,905% since the financial crisis tinged March 2009 low – easily topping the 215% gain by the Standard & Poor’s 500.
But it’s not just an up-from-the-bottom play. These underwear stocks are up 61% over the past year – easily topping the 12.6% gain by the Standard & Poor’s 500.
Under Armour is the biggest winner of the bunch. Shares are up 2,425% from the March 2009 lows and have soared 16% this year alone. Such a massive rise in the stock is one reason why CEO Kevin Plank is one of the CEOs enjoying huge market gains. Under Armour has been delivering massive revenue gains – something investors are increasingly willing to pay up for. Revenue jumped 32% last year – and hasn’t grow any less than 24% in each of the past five years, says S&P Capital IQ.
And the future continues to look strong for these companies. L Brands, for instance, boosted its adjusted profit guidance for 2015 by 5 cents a share. A move that “in our view underscoring our, and management’s, confidence in the current outlook,” according to a note from BMO Capital Markets analyst John Morris to investors.
UNDERWEAR STOCKS HAVE BEEN STRONG
Company Symbol Stock % gain from 3/2009 low Stock % YTD Under Armour UA 2,425% 15.7% YTD Hanesbrands HBI 2,004% 15.7% YTD L Brands LB 1,299% 3.2% YTD S&P 500 SPX 215% 3.5% YTD
Sources: S&P Capital IQ, USA TODAY
* S&P 500 peak on 10/9/2007
** S&P 500 peak on 3/9/2009

Generated : 
No stranger to the criticism, Wall Street has really learned how to deal with it this year, and you can almost imagine how many people have no idea how heavy the wearables market is going to be. Oh wait, it’s funny. It may not start the craze overnight but it will eventually get bigger.
Fitness And Fitness
Fitness is one of the biggest industries growing more than ever, whether it’s against the economy or health. With so many companies going from micro-managing a thing to actually working with their design teams and product developers, the trend is clearly producing major innovation. For example, the Always-a-Day Fit, which only requires that you carry a credit card at all times, and never should have to turn in a fitness credit card or insurance card in the first place, is estimated to have just 7% market share, and that’s because of a crisis of funding for the wearable/used-to-wear industry. But it really is a massive enterprise, and one that shows that CEO Ron Friedman and the company’s employees are strong entrepreneurs, passionate, and willing to work hard for the right kind of performance.
Forbes magazine has named Apple the world’s most valuable company, and a total of 15 Dow Jones hedge funds have built up 6,000 positions in Apple. You know what? And plenty of the people that made the Forbes haters laugh are kicking themselves and claiming that it’s “a tax the billionaires paying.”
Related Dustin Hoffman knew how to be a cool kid in Disney
And yeah, some of us do still own the above-mentioned Apple. But others have a different name as well. Let’s just say, Jordan Davidson is not only getting your Netflix subscription for free, but he’s also aiming to take shorts into the big leagues. Like wannabe hypercars, Davidson plans to one day get a sports helmet with star power on it, which is to say, a gold helmet, with a car in front of it that would need to be $35 in gold.
And really, the difference between Miller Lite and Iron Man in a truly physical home sports helmet is that Iron Man and Miller Lite should cover mostly the same things. Forget about a hockey helmet for a moment. Miller Lite isn’t even on these lists because of hard luck in the U.S. This tells you just how much money now this segment of the market is being extracted from. The average price of a martini glass fell to $18 per ounce in 2013 from $23 in 2000, and I’d imagine that sort of money is getting rich quick too. And when you’re a millionaire, you’re taking up space on your couch.
In short, the factors that made Miller Lite worth $100 million last year aren’t going away anytime soon. The Motley Fool previously listed two other lifestyle industries that seem to be just getting started: a used-to-wear company, and a really good boy band. Don’t be fooled by that line of thinking – all of the bands are excellent bands. They’re generally fabulous bands with very clean designs with very interesting storyboards. Just ask Adam Sandler.
