Title : Black Friday protests target retailers opening on Thanksgiving
 
Original : 
Retail workers and union activists are preparing for a record day of action across the US on Friday, protesting wages and conditions on the busiest shopping day of the year.
Retailers, including Macy's, are opening their doors on Thanksgiving for the first time this year, joining other store giants including Target, Sears and Kmart. But it is Walmart, the nation's largest private employer, which has attracted the focus of protests.
Protests are planned at more than 1,500 of Walmart's 4,000 US stores on Black Friday, the day after the Thanksgiving holiday and traditionally the start of the festive shopping season. Last year similar protests attracted 30,000 workers and supporters. This year organisers said they expect even larger protests with retail workers angered by the decision of many more retailers to open on Thanksgiving, traditionally a national holiday.
Workers lobby group Our Walmart plans to lead protests by supporters and staff, many of whom will be working Thanksgiving for the first time this year. Church groups and civil rights, consumer and environmental organisations including the National Organization for Women, The Sierra Club, Color of Change and the National Consumers League have all pledged support.
Tiffany Beroid, who works at the stores Laurel, Maryland store, said she would be joining this year's protest. Beroid, 29, said she earned $12,000 last year working full time as a customer service manager for the company but had to go part-time this year because she could no longer afford her child care. "Even if I worked 40 hours a week, I wouldn't be able to afford child care," she said. "We need better wages and respect in the workplace. Walmart can afford to treat us better."
The company has said associates – as it calls its workers – who work over the holiday will receive an additional day's pay, a 25% discount off a Walmart purchase and will be served a Thanksgiving meal during the Black Friday shift. More than a million associates are expected to staff Walmart stores during the events.
A Walmart spokesman dismissed the protests as "a union orchestrated PR event" and said that the National Labor Relations Board had okayed unions to pay some protesters $50 to join the protests. "Very few of these people will be actual Walmart employees," she said. "We are really focussed on sales and serving our customers. We don't believe there will be any disruption at stores. It's business as usual at Walmart."
Walmart, the world's largest retailer, has already faced nine walkouts by workers this month at stores across the US. Retail workers have gone on strike calling for an end to alleged retaliation against protesters, more full-time positions, and better wages – specifically, that all workers make at least $25,000 a year.
Dorian Warren, associate professor of political science and international and public affairs at Columbia University, has compared the strikes to industrial action that targeted General Motors after the second world war. "They got all the big companies like GM to raise standards. And as we think about today, and we think about Walmart as the embodiment of what's wrong with the American economy today, we are seeing yet again the courageousness of workers being willing to take risky actions to risk their livelihoods for all of us," he said on a conference call organised by Our Walmart.
The protests come at a sensitive moment for Walmart. Earlier this month the National Labor Relations Board said it was investigating whether Walmart violated the rights of its employees as a result of activities surrounding employee protests.
The retailer is currently running and ad campaign titled The Real Walmart. The campaign features happy, well paid managers at the store talking about the career opportunities the company offers. According to the company Walmart's wages are at or above the retail industry average.
The campaign was undermined by news that management at one of the retailer's Ohio stores had asked workers to contribute to a holiday food drive for colleagues struggling to make ends meet over the holiday period.
Pressure group Making Change at Walmart, backed by United Food & Commercial Workers (UFCW), has begun airing ads in the retailer's hometown of Bentonville, Arkansas highlighting the Ohio food drive.

Generated : 
John Lewis, Tesco, Asda, Primark, William Morris are among the biggest Black Friday retailers opening their stores this year; they alone will enjoy four days of sales free
Black Friday sales for families have been set to see sharp increases for retailers in the first week of November as those planning to spend big on gifts look to enjoy a trudge through the evening over the weekend with some hoping to get a piece of the pie.
Speaking to the Telegraph last week, John Lewis released its annual figures, showing spending on the day increased by 12.9% compared to the year-ago period, as it topped the list of the biggest single day of sales.
A survey by the charity eMarketer found that 42% of those planning to spend their holiday money this year on big items that didn't yet have a telltale sign of being frugal were were planning to shop an extra 15 minutes on the day.
The retailer which owns the Big Issue and First Dates before converting all of its stores to the digital site, showed that it had overall sales up 3.9% on last year, with multi-store sales up by 2.5%. The figures peg total sales for the day for Black Friday at around £1.1bn, with holiday sales between £1.9bn and £1.9bn.
Meanwhile, A&P announced a greater than 10% uptick in sales from the Friday after Thanksgiving in comparison to the previous year.
In its catalogue, A&P said its Black Friday retailers had been forced to raise prices on some items over the last few years, with some furniture and furnishings especially being affected.
A&P chief executive Martin Taylor said: "We are always aware of the changes consumers are making when shopping for goods and services, it is essential to ensure there is a successful day for consumers when shopping on Black Friday.
"With the latest release of i-List, we are just now in the process of developing a platform that will allow the best prices to be found on the widest range of goods and services.
"The i-List includes low-end, high-quality furniture, electricals, coffee makers, tools and coats and this will become a vital tool for shoppers to find the best bargains on their next purchase. We look forward to announcing a new i-List product later this year."
But John Lewis – which closed down one of its stores this week after local poor Christmas sales meant it had to end its Christmas sale on Thursday - issued a warning to its big shopping fans, telling them to ignore the 'big sales' while spending their money on everything from clothing and shoes to food.
Jim Marsh, John Lewis chief executive said: "All the big sales this weekend will be 'last chance' sales which will hopefully bring us through the Christmas period as in normal circumstances we won't be closing today.
"We want to help our loyal customers and colleagues alike find the things they want on Black Friday and here's why."
Earlier this week, Daily Mail editor-in-chief Kate Holthuis said the festive season would play out 'as if nothing happened' because every party was going on.
She said: "I am about to go on holiday this Christmas for every time I went on holiday: and they include paying up, eating and getting ahead - I am running out of time. It is an empty house with no branches."
Separately, William Morris said Christmas sales had exceeded expectations, with a record £2.4bn profit for the 12 weeks to 11 November.
The Morris Morris Morris name, started by Eric and Madeleine Morris, defined its Morris name as "a key part of Morris' heritage".
According to Marlene McLaren, from the charity Save Me, "the Morris Morris name has stood for character, irreverence and fair play. We want people to know that when John Lewis opens its doors they will also be looking for the Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris Morris