Title : Hillary Clinton's attack on Wall Street doesn't include her advisers, presumably
 
Original : 
Hillary Clinton is speaking out against the "revolving door" between Wall Street and government— but neglects to mention that some of her closest confidantes have ties to big banks.
In an op-ed co-authored with Wisconsin Senator Tammy Baldwin, Clinton called out the revolving door between Washington and Wall Street, meaning the staffers that jump between the big banks and government.
See also: Bernie Sanders pushes rivals to crack down on Wall Street
"Some of America's most dedicated public servants got their start in technology, business, academia, or other fields. Most of the time, that private-sector experience is an asset, not a liability," Clinton and Baldwin write. "But in some cases, it can affect the public trust — for example, if a public servant's past and future are tied to the financial industry. That's when people start worrying that the foxes are guarding the hen house."
She vows in the op-ed that she'll work to end conflicts of interest in government if she's elected president. And it's not her first time calling out Wall Street: in a speech at NYU in July, she vowed to change corporate culture and "reign in excessive growth on Wall Street," following the lead of her anti-Wall Street — and toughest — opponent Sen. Bernie Sanders.
But some have question just how hard Clinton will crack down on Wall Street, considering some of her closest aides and confidantes have ties to big banks.
Here's a list of her closest aides who have Wall Street inked on their resumes:
Amanda Renteria
Amanda Renteria. Image: (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin)/Associated Press
Campaign position: Renteria is at the top of the food chain in Clinton's campaign. She's the political director, and one of Clinton's most trusted allies.
Links to Wall Street: She was briefly a financial advisor at Goldman Sachs, but she swapped out Wall Street for the public sector after three years. She wanted "make a difference, cheesy as that sounds," according to a 2008 interview in Roll Call.
Gary Gensler
Gary Gensler. Image: AP Photo/Susan Walsh, file)/Associated Press
Campaign position: He was recently hired as the campaign's chief financial officer.
Links to Wall Street: Gensler spent 18 years at Goldman Sachs, becoming the youngest person to be named a partner there. He left Wall Street and had a stint in Bill Clinton's Treasury Department. But don't expect him to advocate that Clinton go easier on the financial sector: he's since grown tough on Wall Street, helping to draft the Dodd-Frank Act, which places strict financial rules on Wall Street after the financial crisis.
Lisa Caputo
Lisa Caputo. Image: Exchanges Photo/Creative Commons/Flickr/Associated Press
Campaign position: She has no official position, but she's a close friend of Clinton, after serving as a press secretary during her tenure as first lady, and as a senior adviser during Clinton's first presidential run in 2008.
Links to Wall Street: She's currently the executive vice president for global marketing and corporate affairs at Citigroup.
Tom Nides
Tom Nides. Image: J. Scott Applewhite/AP/Associated Press
Campaign position: While Nides was the former deputy secretary of state from 2011 to 2013 during Clinton's tenure in the State Department, he doesn't have an official role on her 2016 campaign. Still, he's widely known to be one of her closest and most trusted confidantes.
Links to Wall Street: Nides is currently the vice chairman of Morgan Stanley. And it's not his first rodeo on Wall Street: he's had stints at Fannie May and Credit Suisse.
Robert Hormats
Robert Hormats. Image: (AP Photo/Virginia Mayo)/Associated Press
Campaign position: Like Nides, Hormats has no official position on the Clinton 2016 campaign, but he's a close confidante and was a trusted aide in the State Department. He served as the undersecretary of state for economic growth, energy, and the environment from 2009 to 2013.
Links to Wall Street: Hormats is a former vice chairman and managing director at Goldman Sachs.
Wall Street supporters
Goldman Sachs. Image: (AP Photo/Richard Drew)/Associated Press
Role in campaign: No campaign can thrive without money, and Clinton's got a lot of it.
Links to Wall Street: Wall Street has given more to Clinton's campaign than to any other presidential contender. And she has a history of getting love from Wall Street. According to data from OpenSecrets, her top two financial contributors throughout her career are two of the biggest banks: Citigroup and Goldman Sachs. JP Morgan and Morgan Stanley are also included in the top five.
Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.

Generated : 
Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is being criticized for attacking the financial industry more forcefully in her campaign for president.
Clinton made her remarks during the 2016 debate between Republican Donald Trump and Democrat Hillary Clinton on Monday, just before the beginning of the candidate's rollout of her new memoir, "Hard Choices."
While criticizing the perceived missteps of "Wall Street" banking clients, she also suggested that the cause of high interest rates is their pain.
"Wall Street money, because of the absurd high rates they're charging, people that were supposedly saving for retirement are now drawing down to make ends meet and putting on the struggling American taxpayers a second house," Clinton said.
"I don't trust Wall Street," she said. "I don't know if that matters. But I have faith in Wall Street money, for the long run, because it's the cause of many major economic changes that people are enduring in this country, and that is not the Democratic Party.
But the comments do not address the relationship between the Federal Reserve, the Supreme Court, and Wall Street.
For example, Clinton said that "back in 2003" the central bank oversaw the rising of interest rates, which in turn led to Wall Street profitability, which caused the downturn in 2009 that in turn prompted the Fed to call in its General Rate Bandit at the height of the subprime crisis.
Clinton's comments are one of her most aggressive since she decided to run for president in 2016, and far from the most robust about what she was up to when she considered running in 2012. But Clinton seems to be comfortable carrying the brush off that, and largely finished the speeches, to start the 2016 presidential race.
The latest section of Clinton's speech about Wall Street opens with the claim that "freedom for those who matter — and who pay for that," and "those who want to save — are nearly impossible to achieve. And, but we certainly have to lower our rates of living within our means."
It seems likely that this reference to "freedom for those who matter" will be converted into a more pointed demagoguery by the Clinton camp, just as she spoke on behalf of Wall Street in 2009.
