Title : ‘Hidden Figures Congressional Gold Medal Act’ honoring 4 African-American NASA scientists passes Senate
 
Original : 
WASHINGTON, D.C. – Bipartisan legislation introduced by Virginia Senators Mark Warner and Tim Kaine, aiming to award four African-American women scientists the Congressional Gold Medal for their work at NASA Langley, passed the U.S. Senate with unanimous support Thursday.
According to a statement by the senators, the bill would award the Congressional Gold Medal to Katherine Johnson and Dr. Christine Darden, and posthumously award the medals to Dorothy Vaughan and Mary Jackson.
It serves to commend these women for their contributions to NASA’s success during the Space Race and highlight their broader impact on society – paving the way for women, especially women of color, in science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
The legislation now heads to the House of Representatives, where a companion bill has been introduced.
“These four remarkable women and their contributions to the success of the Space Race remained unacknowledged for far too long,” the senators said in a statement. “We are thrilled that their achievements while at NASA Langley—particularly during a tough period of racial inequality—continue to be brought to light.”
The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian award in the U.S. It is awarded to those who have performed an achievement that has had an impact on American history and culture that is likely to be recognized in the recipient’s field for years to come.
The women honored in the Hidden Figures Congressional Gold Medal Act are:
Katherine Johnson, who calculated trajectories for multiple NASA space missions including the first human spaceflight by an American, Alan Shepard’s Freedom 7 mission. She also calculated trajectories for John Glenn’s Friendship 7 mission to orbit the earth. During her time at NASA, she became the first woman recognized as an author of a report from the Flight Research Division.
Dorothy Vaughan, who led the West Area Computing unit for nine years, as the first African-American supervisor at National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA), which later became NASA. She later became an expert programmer in FORTRAN as a part of NASA’s Analysis and Computation Division.
Mary Jackson, who petitioned the City of Hampton to allow her to take graduate-level courses in math and physics at night at the all-white Hampton High School in order to become an engineer at NASA. She was the first female African-American engineer at the agency. Later in her career, she worked to improve the prospects of NASA’s female mathematicians, engineers, and scientists as Langley’s Federal Women’s Program Manager.
Dr. Christine Darden, who became an engineer at NASA 16 years after Mary Jackson. She worked to revolutionize aeronautic design, wrote over 50 articles on aeronautics design, and became the first African-American person of any gender to be promoted into the Senior Executive Service at Langley.
The lives and careers of Johnson, Vaughan, Jackson and Darden were featured in the book “Hidden Figures: The American Dream and the Untold Story of the Black Women Mathematicians Who Helped Win the Space Race,” by Margot Lee Shetterly.
That book was adapted into the 2016 film “Hidden Figures,” which the Senators showed at a Capitol Hill screening for hundreds of Virginia students last year.
In addition, Warner and Kaine honored Johnson, Vaughan and Jackson by acknowledging their achievements in an official statement that was enshrined in the Congressional Record.

Generated : 
Democrats on the House Appropriations Committee passed legislation Tuesday that recognizes those at NASA’s forefront of the world.
The Congressional Gold Medal Act, which House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy introduced last year, is “a strong case for preservation of these invaluable American heroes and we commend Secretary Chu and Secretary Rangel on their dedication to National Security,” McCollum said.
An estimated 76 percent of humans may be affected by NASA’s mission to study the universe. The Gold Medal Act would not only honor those who have been in the game for more than 50 years, but it would also serve as a reminder to those who cherish the existence of this continent.
The African-American Flight Research Award was established in 1968 and awards a research role in space for NASA astronauts in the early years of the American industrial revolution. In 1871, for instance, Dr. Alexander P. Israel had started El Separation as a research center at NASA Headquarters in Washington D.C.
Congresswoman Murkowski (R-Alaska) also sponsored the bipartisan resolution.
The legislation, co-sponsored by California Republican Jim Nielsen and Massachusetts Democrat Kevin McCarthy, aims to restore the Gold Medal Act to the American Academy of Engineers.
“The best part of that conversation was how this country had a program of national security experts,” McCarthy said. “We have to keep that happening. There are so many threats that we cannot imagine that it will not stop until they really do.”
