Title : ActionSprout raises cash to help non-profits connect with supporters on Facebook
 
Original : 
ActionSprout , which helps non-profit organizations better engage with supporters on Facebook, has raised $1.7 million from Oregon Angel Fund, Bellingham Angel Fund, Portland Seed Fund and others.
In addition, the company announced that SurveyMonkey co-founder Chris Finley has joined the board. ActionSprout CEO Drew Bernard said in a statement that the money will be used to get the company’s tools into the hands of more non-profits.
“Some ninety percent of nonprofits use Facebook today with the goal of building support and deepening relationships with donors and volunteers,” said Bernard. “For the past two years our team has worked to develop tools and techniques to take the mystery out of how to make Facebook work for nonprofits, helping them achieve these very goal(s).”
The company’s customers include Sierra Club, Unicef, and Greepeace, with pricing of the service ranging from $15 per month to $73 per month, depending on how many people typically engage with an organization’s Facebook page.
Non-profits and political organizations use the service to engage with supporters on Facebook on various levels, from signing petitions to donating to subscribing to email newsletters. The company says that its tools convert five percent to 20 percent of the people who with engage with a Facebook post.
For example, if a non-profit organization has 100 people like, share or comment on a Facebook post, the ActionSprout tools will help obtain five to 20 email addresses.
“This is a large benefit for ActionSprout customers as the median value of an email address in 2013 was $13 in terms of donations,” said spokeswoman Kim Blomgren.
She added that other Facebook apps sell marketing services to non-profits, but many of those are focused on coupons or sweepstakes.
ActionSprout, which employs 10 people, has raised $1.7 million to date. It has offices in Portland and Bellingham.
ActionSprout’s Bernard, who previously founded OBJX and worked as a strategist at Groundwire Labs, lives in Portland, while co-founder and former Microsoft manager Shawn Kemp resides in Bellingham. Both previously founded BellPort Ventures, an organization that helps entrepreneurs turn ideas into businesses.

Generated : 
Shopify has partnered with ActionSprout, a mobile-focused social marketing startup, to promote the company’s stand-alone mobile app, said Justin Ciskian, executive director of marketing at ActionSprout.
ActionSprout users have a choice of participating in the Foundation App and Indiegogo campaigns or being a “friend” of the charity on Facebook, where they can comment on new marketing offers. It’s taking this approach different and lets users also tell a similar story to the Foundation app — either there is a better showing of support on Facebook or they can give another emotional insight into the causes it cares about.
In creating the Foundation App, ActionSprout’s analysts displayed numbers that they believe helped drive its sales. The site aggregates images that users click, along with data that shows how often users become a Partner App follower. The most interesting statistic: between 11 and 15 percent of people on the site buy individual items from an existing Foundation App.
And it’s getting better. The Foundation app is currently growing rapidly to more than 2,000 users.
“ActionSprout’s developer platform lends itself to making stronger connections with benefactors and giving emerging citizens of around the world a way to connect and learn,” Ciskian said. “We plan to continue to work hard to bring hundreds of thousands of strong local partners into real-world work through this software.”
Ciskian said ActionSprout’s research into the nonprofit world goes back to 2012, and in the last few years it’s gone into business with several nonprofits, with a focus on nonprofit children. The initiative is helping nonprofits improve staff training, and hope that it is helping them turn a profit.
At the Trust Foundation 2015 conference last year, Ciskian talked about the new feature, known as a Mobile App. His company takes advantage of Groupon, eBay, and PayPal for growing, limited-time promotional offers. Every year, the message on the opportunity page is “I don’t own a Groupon, but if you do, send me a $20 gift voucher!” it’s still the same.
Now, there are some existing charity apps that aim to give a better, more social impression of the Foundation, with nine appealing to users for a chance to win. While the Foundation App on ActionSprout is aimed at the business community, it’s not the full-size platform, Ciskian said.
ActionSprout has raised $69,000 so far and plans to bring out another $28,000 investment later this year. A Buy Your House Giveaway page lets donors buy shares or cash in the Foundation’s companies for a discounted price.
