Title : As they say at Manchester United: football ownership – bloody hell
 
Original : 
Our history isn't yours to buy, fumes one of the fan banners at Manchester United – except, of course, when it is. But is now such a time? It's never quite clear, in this surreal age when a football club can be bought with a loan for which it is itself the collateral. But reports that United are the target of a Qatari bid fronted by the club's so-called Class of '92 are too phantasmagorically intriguing to ignore – not least for the club's share price, which perked up rationally at the news.
On Thursday it was confirmed that Ryan Giggs, Gary and Phil Neville, Paul Scholes and Nicky Butt had bought non-league Salford City, subject to FA approval. At the same time reports suggested that the latter quintet, plus David Beckham, are also the frontmen for a bid to relieve the Glazer family of Manchester United. Now, if that sequence of acquisition feels a bit like someone exchanging on a studio flat above a bookies one day, only to put in a bid for Versailles the next, then you are strongly urged to just adjust your mindset.
The past 15 years or so has seen little off limits as far as the search for new models of ownership go. Clubs have passed in and out of the hands of oligarchs keen to launder at the very least their reputation; others have seen Interpol darken their executive car parks in search of gentlemen to help them with their inquiries. One was owned by a former foreign prime minister (now on the run from the authorities). We never even properly found out who owned Notts County for one stretch, but we do know that they managed to persuade their director of football, a Mr Sven-Goran Eriksson, to join their delegation to North Korea as they sought to persuade Pyongyang to sell its gold-mining rights. Football, as someone once remarked. Bloody hell.
Club ownership in this country has now travelled so far the other side of the looking glass that you might as well laugh, and there is little so deliciously amusing as the idea of David Beckham becoming Sir Alex Ferguson's superior at United. I like to think of Beckham as being given a bigger office than his former manager – and now a club director – where he would intimate that he required Fergie to bring him a cup of tea by chucking a boot at the latter's door.
Beckham's far too nice and deferential for that, of course – during his recent Sport Relief interview with James Corden, David Cameron revealed the former England captain's servile outrage at the fiasco of the 2018 World Cup vote, for which he'd lobbied alongside Prince William. According to the PM, Beckham said to him: "I don't mind people lying to me, but lying to the future king of England? It's unacceptable." Bless him. Whichever hairstyle Beckham's got, the forelock comes as standard – and it would probably be him being big enough to soothe Ferguson's volcanic resentment with a cuppa.
So would a takeover with these frontmen signal the definitive coming-of-age of the modern, power-playing footballer, who buys a club rather than a pub on retirement? The ability to convince oneself that the unlikely is possible is the essence of sports fandom, and even plenty who don't support Manchester United will find themselves unable to resist a daydream in which dedicated former players arrive at any club like the cavalry and do the right thing, whatever that may be deemed to be this week. Many may even dare to imagine that the move could herald a new model of football ownership, inspired more by the Co-op or the John Lewis Partnership. You know, except for the Qatari bit.
Still, having six club legends as the bulwark between themselves and the awkward squad would be a smart move on the part of the vogueish Middle Eastern money men. No one would be able to put the emir or his underlings on the spot and ask who plays left-back for United, as they did with Rupert Murdoch's representative at a press conference back when the News Corp chairman was planning to add the club to his trophy cabinet. And the presence of Red Gary Neville would obviously bat away all the usual gripes about the pox of rampant capitalism blighting the game. Perhaps Neville could lead football's first ever directors' strike if the Qataris misbehaved.
And yet, in my somewhat less optimistic heart of hearts, I can't help feeling this idealised takeover smells like one of those hugely ill-advised British caper movies of the sort that nonetheless boast stellar cameos from a host of credible stars. There was one last year – Run for Your Wife, a movie adaptation of the Ray Cooney farce, which featured turns from Judi Dench, the late Richard Briers, Geoffrey Palmer, Prunella Scales, Cliff Richard, Christopher Biggins, and Dennis Waterman, among others. It took £747 at the box office.
Naturally, no one is suggesting that Manchester United would bomb like that, even if Harper Beckham were swiftly appointed its chief financial officer. But does legends plus Qataris equal the sensible answer to the club's current crisis? As mentioned here before, the club's fall from dominance has frequently been discussed as though it were analogous to the widespread collapse of trust in our most vital institutions – the police, banks, parliament, Her Majesty's press, and so on. So overblown has the debate about United's results become that perhaps only such an outlandish solution could possibly be deemed to address it.
Twitter: @MarinaHyde

Generated : 
Manchester United are about to be bought by a Hell-bent owner who will poison the drink. Eric Clapton was a billionaire. Sir Alex Ferguson inherited the legacy of his son Cole and the gallery of Wayne Rooney. His son, Harry, left for Lazio in 2002 and has spent 15 years buying clubs and teams. It was Clapton who saved them. He bought the FA Cup in 1986 from Kenny Dalglish and his 1986 Champions League-winning team was the form team of the era.
"If I was to sum up my Manchester United ownership as a Hell-bent owner I would have said: 'Is the Manchester United brand tainted?' I don't think so. The football business is down to him. It doesn't matter to him. Football is one of the biggest most popular and growing brands in the world and he will take over a very massive. He will not only find a place in that – he will also have a tremendous time at Old Trafford."
There will have been no long-standing rivalry between Clapton and the Red Devils. But they are unlikely to be in the same club for long. Sir Alex has yet to decide on a new manager.
United have some excellent management ideas. Clapton recently called retired chairman Leon Barnett "a game changer" and declared he would stay on when he becomes the new CEO next month. Ed Woodward is an excellent candidate, but at the moment Jürgen Klopp is more popular with the club's fans.
He also described a position "where the co-ownership in football is quite similar – it is sort of a bit of a soapbox on modern economic matters" and a "smokehouse". Clapton also claimed that Premier League players would wear a cap to show "iron balls" wearing the best of the English game.
