Title : PopCap debuts first social hidden object game on Facebook with Hidden Agenda
 
Original : 
Seattle-based PopCap Games is back with another game featuring anthropomorphic animals, and this time it’s all about solving mysteries.
Hidden Agenda is PopCap’s first ever social hidden object game on Facebook and is currently out for beta. You can test out the game, but the big launch with the full version won’t be out until later this month.
“Hidden Agenda is a fresh take on the HOG genre, but deeply rooted in PopCap’s proven heritage, which includes the best-selling series such as Mystery P.I. and Amazing Adventures, among others,” said Kurt Busch, executive producer of Hidden Agenda, in a press release. “With this new game, we’re extending the genre with a compelling story and rich characters, as well as great game challenges and social features that elevate the entire category.”
Each character is hiding something in Hidden Agenda and users need to navigate through the town to find out who and what will open new doors and opportunities for solving a local murder mystery. Players can work with and against friends on Facebook.
The full version will feature 12 cases, 48 hidden object scenes, 25 characters, hundreds of hidden object jobs and thousands of hidden items to find.
For more insight into the game, check out this interview with Busch.
Previously on GeekWire: Real-life Bejeweled: Hasbro, PopCap games bringing video games to real world

Generated : 
PopCap has won an infomercial for its new social VR game Hidden Agenda. It’s led by an Australian free agent, named Annie Mee, a local activist of unprecedented social expression who lives off Facebook, and her new little piece of play may help establish public support for the best of Snop Artuts.
PopCap first announced Hidden Agenda back in November, and it even played its first battle at the Nintendo Wii U launch event, with a win of sorts for the New York-based company. Hidden Agenda is an eyesore, with monkeys climbing a wall and dancing.
But unlike some other public participation games like the EVE Online and Battlefield, Hidden Agenda pulls all the best elements from social games and uses them to engage and teach people.
It features a forest of lively animals with an Australian native voice voice that includes 12 characters. The game uses a hacking bug to trigger with the game for players to touch and feel their finger touching the creatures.
Mee’s main concern is people turning off their social media, so even the game’s most personal users, she says, are brave enough to share their views on social media.
“A lot of those are very naturally into sharing what people think or don’t do, but I think with Hidden Agenda, players can really explore what’s their idea of happiness,” she says. “People have the freedom to pick a story, but if they are choosing a story and they have a shared opinion about it, they just automatically go to a response.”
Hidden Agenda will be out on March 1 via FanDuel, the live-streaming sports company, and as Mee mentions in her announcement, sometimes players choose their avatar in a shuffle: One player, for example, on a game, lets players pull a fancy new photo from their Facebook wall before they move forward. Mee explained that they have such access to content for everyone, and the social messaging for members comes from proximity to their friends and not having to look at the integration.
No word yet on whether visual games are also embracing social sharing. Just this week, a fun video of a banana aficionado in the role-playing style Hunger Games: Catching Fire was embedded below on Engadget, one of many social game news sites covering the week in the VR economy.
Blurring reality away from your eyes is one the founders of Hidden Agenda are trying to solve.
