{{New mutated COVID-19 cases involving the so-called "Super Strain" "that got on a plane in the United Kingdom and flew to New York” have been reported in the Hudson Valley.\nTwo new cases were reported of the UK strain, which is more transmittable, though no more lethal, were reported in Westchester, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo announced on Friday, Jan. 22.\n“The UK strain has been spreading,” he said during a COVID-19 briefing on Friday. “It should have never been here. If the federal government did the testing and quarantine mandates that other countries did it wouldn’t have been, but we are where we are.”\nThe state is now up to 25 confirmed cases of the mutated virus in all of New York after five new infections were confirmed this week in Westchester, Long Island, and in Brooklyn.\nThe latest cases, announced Friday, were two in Westchester, and one in Brooklyn.\nCuomo did not announce where the precise locations of the new cases in Westchester and Brooklyn were.\n“The new strains are frightening,” Cuomo added. “The UK strain … the Brazil strain … the South African strain … and there’s going to be more strains, I would wager on it.”\nThough the UK strain is believed to be no more lethal than the original strain, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Friday that preliminary evidence shows that there may be new proof that it is in fact more lethal.\n“We’ve been informed today that in addition to spreading more quickly, it also now appears that there is some evidence that the new variant — the variant that was first discovered in London and the southeast (of England) — may be associated with a higher degree of mortality,” he said in a news conference.\n“If you took ... a man in their 60s, the average risk is that for 1,000 people who got infected, roughly 10 would be expected to unfortunately die with the virus,” he added. “With the new variant, for 1,000 people infected roughly 13 or 14 people might be expected to die.”\nCuomo said that the Wadsworth Center has been testing for additional mutated strains outside of the UK, though not have been confirmed yet.\n“So far the mutated strains are different and more dangerous and that this UK strain,” Cuomo said. “It’s just a matter of time until there’s a strain that’s much more lethal, and unfortunately I believe you have to anticipate a strain that is vaccine-resistant.”\nCuomo made note that the CDC claims that the UK strain could overtake the initial strain as soon as March, potentially causing a rise in the state’s positive COVID-19 infection rate, which has been slowly dropping.\n“That’s how quickly this spreads, so you could see the infection rate go up,” he said. “So we will adjust. We’re in a war with COVID, and it’s a fluid situation. In war when an enemy moves you move. They try a new tactic, you try a new tactic and that ability to adjust is very important.\n“You can never get cocky with COVID.”\nClick here to sign up for Daily Voice's free daily emails and news alerts.}}
{{Hayley Peterson\nI spent months strictly isolating before I tested positive for the coronavirus in June, when I was 19 weeks pregnant.\nSince then, I’ve struggled to understand the mystery of my infection.\nI now count myself among the fortunate survivors of this virus, but I feel little lasting relief.\nVisit Business Insider’s homepage for more stories.\nI really believed that with enough disinfectant and social isolation, I could avoid the coronavirus.\nSo for months, I stayed away from people, washed my hands constantly, and wiped down everything in sight. Countless times I sat on my porch with neon yellow gloves pulled up to my elbows, and systematically unboxed, unbagged, and disinfected groceries and packages before I carried them across the threshold of my front door into my heavily sanitised home. Once inside, I would scrub my fresh produce in soapy water, then rinse it clean.\nDuring this time, I rarely left my house. When I ventured outside for a doctor’s appointment or to pick up groceries curbside, I wore my mask. I never stepped foot inside a store or a restaurant.\nMy husband, 2-year-old son, and I were exposed to only three other people regularly for the purposes of child care. These people were all taking similar precautions against the virus, and none were the source of my infection (they all later tested negative).\nI developed these strict quarantine systems because I was terrified of the virus. I found out I was pregnant at the start of the pandemic and at that time – as unfortunately remains the case today – doctors had little knowledge concerning the effects of the virus on fetuses and pregnancy.\nBut I had read enough horrifying anecdotal stories of premature births in COVID-infected mothers, women being separated from their infants at birth to avoid infection, and signs of the virus crossing or damaging the placenta to make me very, very worried.\nThen I got a positive COVID test.\nI woke one morning in June with a headache and sinus pain and went to a doctor. I was diagnosed with a sinus infection and prescribed an antibiotic. I inquired about COVID, and the doctor said that there was almost no chance I had the virus.\nInfection rates were relatively low in my area of Virginia, and I had no known exposure to anyone feeling ill. The doctor said she had seen only one positive case in the previous two weeks of testing patients. Besides, I still had my sense of smell and taste, and I had no cough or high fever, which are among the most common symptoms of the virus, she said.\nI asked for a COVID test anyway out of an abundance of caution.\nTwo days later, my husband got a severe headache and mild fever. He visited the same doctor and was also told that COVID was highly unlikely to be the cause of his symptoms. We felt reassured by the doctor’s certainty that whatever we had was not the coronavirus.\nThen, five full days after getting tested for the coronavirus, my results came back positive.\nWe were stunned by the results. The following hours and days were a blur of terror, anxiety, and utter confusion.\nBy then, I had spent months consumed by COVID news for my work as a journalist. What had become my biggest fear over those months had quietly breached all my defences and infected us, and was potentially harming my unborn child.\nFrom my research, I knew that if my blood oxygen levels dropped – a common issue in severe cases of COVID – my baby would be in grave danger. He relies on oxygen in my blood to survive, and even a couple hours of low oxygen can cause serious problems.\nIt was hardly reassuring that my symptoms had so far been somewhat mild. COVID is wildly unpredictable and frequently patients can start to feel better before ending up hospitalized on breathing machines. Some patients have even suffered “silent hypoxia,” meaning their blood-oxygen levels have dropped to dangerous levels without them knowing.\nThese fears gripped me all day and night, as I compulsively checked my oxygen levels with a pulse oximeter. At the same time, I was trying to safely care for my active toddler and shield from him the debilitating fatigue and panic attacks that struck me without warning.\nThroughout the illness, I was also tortured by the possibility that we could have infected the three people whom we regularly saw for childcare. Fortunately, that fear faded after we found out – following a week-long wait for results – that they all tested negative.\nAnother moment of solace came when I could finally get an ultrasound of my baby, where I learned that he appeared to be developing on track. My appointment was delayed three times after my 14-day COVID quarantine ended, as my doctors – who had not yet dealt with a COVID-positive patient at my stage of pregnancy – struggled to decide on when they would feel comfortable seeing me. This wait was excruciating.\nMy husband and I now count ourselves among the fortunate survivors of this virus, but we feel little lasting relief. There are still many unknowns regarding whether we will face long-term impacts, and I’m already fearing reinfection given recent news about the short life span of COVID antibodies that provide immunity. I also recently learned that a baby who was infected with the coronavirus in the womb was born with inflammation in his brain. I am haunted by how little I actually know about how this virus will affect my unborn child.\nBut I hope our story serves as a stark reminder to never overlook mild symptoms or believe that you don’t pose a threat to others because you’ve been vigilant. Research shows this virus can impact all our major organs and we know it can kill. But even if you survive – even if you have no symptoms at all – scientists simply don’t have enough data to know whether the damage it inflicts will be permanent.\nWhat’s certain is that the mystery of our infection source will never be solved.\nDid an infected runner exhale on me while I was out on a walk? Did we contract it through surface contamination from the mail – which experts have deemed an unlikely source of infection?\nWe’ll never know.\nBusiness Insider Emails & Alerts Site highlights each day to your inbox. Email Address Join\nFollow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram.}}
{{In face of ‘grim’ jobs report, Biden backs more COVID-19 aid\nPresident-elect Joe Biden speaks as Vice President-elect Kamala Harris listens at left, during an event to introduce their nominees and appointees to economic policy posts at The Queen theater, Tuesday, Dec. 1, 2020, in Wilmington, Del. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)\nWILMINGTON, Del. (AP) — President-elect Joe Biden is pushing ahead with his call for massive economic stimulus as the economic recovery from this spring’s coronavirus lockdowns falters amid a nationwide spike in COVID-19 cases.\nBiden was to deliver remarks Friday afternoon reacting to November’s national jobs report, which showed a sharp decrease in U.S. hiring even as the nation is about 10 million jobs below pre-pandemic levels.\nSurging cases of the virus have led states and municipalities to roll back their re-opening plans. And more restrictions may be on the way as colder temperatures and holiday travel lead to new records for confirmed cases and deaths.\n“This is a grim jobs report,” Biden said in a statement ahead of his speech. “It shows an economy that is stalling. It confirms we remain in the midst of one of the worst economic and jobs crises in modern history.”\nWhile Biden has thrown his support behind a bipartisan economic relief bill of about $900 billion, he has said much more will be needed once he takes office next year.\nTrending Headlines\n“Congress and President Trump must get a deal done for the American people,” Biden said. “But any package passed in the lame duck session is not enough. It’s just the start.”}}
{{An aerial view shows the massive damage done to Beirut’s port AFP / Getty Images\nA massive blast on 4 August has caused widespread damage in the port area of the city of Beirut in Lebanon, with 100 people reported dead and 4000 injured. Here’s what we know so far.\nWhat caused the explosion?\nThe blast was caused by 2750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate stored in a warehouse at the port. What set it off isn’t yet clear, but it was almost certainly a fire nearby. There are reports that a container of fireworks was burning. “100 per cent of explosions of ammonium nitrate in storage are due to uncontrolled fires,” says Vyto Babrauskas, a New York-based consultant who has written several papers on ammonium nitrate accidents.\nAdvertisement\nWhat is ammonium nitrate?\nIt’s a white, salt-like solid mainly used as a fertiliser. It isn’t flammable in its pure form, but when heated can decompose in numerous different ways, releasing gases and more heat. If enough heat is released, this reaction can spread rapidly, producing a large amount of gas all at once – an explosion. Ammonium nitrate is much more explosive when mixed with carbon compounds such as fuel oil or even coal dust, which may have been a contributing factor.\nHas this kind of thing happened before?\nThere have been numerous explosions around the world due to ammonium nitrate. The worst was in 1947, when more than 500 people died in Texas City during the unloading of a ship carrying 2300 tonnes of ammonium nitrate. The most recent was in West, Texas, in 2013, when 15 people died after an explosion in a fertiliser warehouse. Video footage of that explosion resembles that from Beirut, says Babrauskas. “Beirut is the same thing, just done bigger.”\nWhy was such a large quantity of ammonium nitrate stored at the port?\nIt reportedly came from a ship that was meant to take it to Mozambique in 2013. The ship was forced to enter the port after developing technical problems and wasn’t allowed to continue its voyage. It was abandoned by the owners, and its cargo moved to a warehouse.\nSo it was just left there?\nPort officials tried to get rid of it. They sent a number of letters to a judge between 2014 and 2017 requesting assistance to export or sell the material, reports Reuters.\nWas it stored properly?\nPhotos suggest the ammonium nitrate was stored in a normal warehouse. Ammonium nitrate should be stored in a non-combustible building, such as one made from concrete, with no combustible materials in it or nearby, says Babrauskas. “We have known for around 150 years how to completely preclude uncontrolled fires in storage,” he says. “It is entirely avoidable.”\nWhat was that strange white cloud that appeared briefly during the main explosion?\nThat was the shockwave from the blast making water in the air condense. A shockwave is a fast-moving area of high pressure. Immediately behind it there is a sudden drop in pressure and thus temperature, which causes condensation. The same effect causes the vapour cone around aircraft flying near or above the speed of sound.\nAnd the red smoke visible before and after the shockwave?\nThat’s nitrogen dioxide, one of the chemicals that can be produced when ammonium nitrate decomposes. “If you see red fumes, run very fast,” says Babrauskas. We breathe in nitrogen dioxide all the time because it is an air pollutant produced by traffic, but its colour isn’t obvious because it is present only in trace amounts.\nCould this happen again somewhere else?\nYes. For instance, Babrauskas says there have been no regulatory changes in the US since the explosion in Texas in 2013.}}
{{Overview of Advanced Power Modules for Industrial Market 2020-2025:\nGlobal Advanced Power Modules for Industrial Market 2020 research report presents analysis of market size, share, and growth, trends, cost structure, statistical and comprehensive data of the global market. Research reports analyses the major opportunities, CAGR, yearly growth rates to help the readers to understand the qualitative and quantitative aspects of the Global Advanced Power Modules for Industrial Market. The competition landscape, company overview, financials, recent developments and long-term investments related to the Global Advanced Power Modules for Industrial Market are mentioned in this report.\nThe key segments covered in this report are geographical segments, end-use/application segments, and competitor segments. The local segment, regional supply, application, and wise demand, major players, prices are also available by 2025. Global Advanced Power Modules for Industrial Market are mentioned in the competition landscape, company overview, financials, recent developments and long-term investments.\nGet PDF Sample Copy of the Report ( Including Full TOC, List of Tables & Figures, Chart ): https://www.marketinforeports.com/Market-Reports/Request-Sample/219110\nTop Key players profiled in the Advanced Power Modules for Industrial market report include: Mitsubishi Electric, Fuji Electric, Semikron, ON Semiconductor, Infineon Technologies, STMicroelectronics, ROHM, Sanken Electric, Vincotech, Powerex, Future Electronics and More…\nThe Type Coverage in the Market areIntelligent Power Modules (IPMs)Power Integrated Modules (PIMs)Market Segment by Applications, coversServo DriveTransportationUPSRenewable Energy\nglobal Advanced Power Modules for Industrial market report also highlights key insights on the factors that drive the growth of the market as well as key challenges that are required to Advanced Power Modules for Industrial market growth in the projection period. Here provide the perspectives for the impact of COVID-19 from the long and short term. Advanced Power Modules for Industrial market contain the influence of the crisis on the industry chain, especially for marketing channels. Update the industry economic revitalization plan of the country-wise government.\nTo Understand the influence of COVID-19 on the Set Screw Market with our analysts monitoring the situation across the globe. Get here sample analysis\nYears Considered to Estimate the Market Size:History Year: 2015-2019Base Year: 2019Estimated Year: 2020Forecast Year: 2020-2025Regions Covered in the Global Advanced Power Modules for Industrial Market:• The Middle East and Africa (GCC Countries and Egypt)• North America (the United States, Mexico, and Canada)• South America (Brazil etc.)• Europe (Turkey, Germany, Russia UK, Italy, France, etc.)• Asia-Pacific (Vietnam, China, Malaysia, Japan, Philippines, Korea, Thailand, India, Indonesia, and Australia)\nKey questions answered in this report:\nWhat are the top opportunities and trends that are currently ruling the market?\nWhat are the drivers that are shaping the Advanced Power Modules for Industrial market?\nWhat are the opportunities and challenges for the Advanced Power Modules for Industrial market created by the outbreak of the Covid-19?\nWhat are the segments of the Advanced Power Modules for Industrial market that are included in the report?\nWhat are the regional developments prominent in the Advanced Power Modules for Industrial market?\nTo get Incredible Discounts on this Premium Report, Click Here @ https://www.marketinforeports.com/Market-Reports/Request_discount/219110\nKey point summary of the Global Advanced Power Modules for Industrial Market report:\nCAGR of the Advanced Power Modules for Industrial market during the forecast period 2020-2025.\nThis report gives out a comprehensive prospect of several factors driving or restraining market growth.\nIt presents an in-depth analysis of fluctuating competition dynamics and puts the reader ahead of competitors.\nIt provides a six-year forecast evaluated on the basis of how the market is predicted to grow.\nIt helps in making well-informed business decisions by creating a precise analysis of market segments and by having complete insights of the Global Advanced Power Modules for Industrial market .\n. This report helps users in comprehending the key product segments and their future developments.\nDetailed TOC of Advanced Power Modules for Industrial Market Report 2020-2025:Chapter 1: Advanced Power Modules for Industrial Market OverviewChapter 2: Economic Impact on IndustryChapter 3: Market Competition by ManufacturersChapter 4: Production, Revenue (Value) by RegionChapter 5: Supply (Production), Consumption, Export, Import by RegionsChapter 6: Production, Revenue (Value), Price Trend by TypeChapter 7: Market Analysis by ApplicationChapter 8: Manufacturing Cost AnalysisChapter 9: Industrial Chain, Sourcing Strategy and Downstream BuyersChapter 10: Marketing Strategy Analysis, Distributors/TradersChapter 11: Market Effect Factors AnalysisChapter 12: Advanced Power Modules for Industrial Market ForecastContinued……\nFor More Information with full TOC: https://www.marketinforeports.com/Market-Reports/219110/Advanced-Power-Modules-for-Industrial-market\nCustomization of the Report: Market Info Reports provides customization of reports as per your need. This report can be personalized to meet your requirements. Get in touch with our sales team, who will guarantee you to get a report that suits your necessities.\nGet Customization of the [email protected]: https://www.marketinforeports.com/Market-Reports/Request-Customization/219110/Advanced-Power-Modules-for-Industrial-market\nGet in Touch with Us :Mr. Marcus KelCall: +1 915 229 3004 (U.S)+44 7452 242832 (U.K)Email: s[email protected]Website: www.marketinforeports.com}}
{{The Duncan Christian School is closed for two weeks due to a COVID-19 cluster. The school offers classes for K-12, all of which have been suspended.\nIn a statement posted to Facebook, school officials said that, due to the large size of the school, the safest way to manage the COVID-19 exposure was to close, effective Jan. 18, with plans to reopen Feb. 1.\nIn an email to CBC, school principal Peter Terpstra wrote "a high number of staff members are affected. This makes it difficult to function operationally."\nStudents will be shifting to off-campus learning during the closure. Grades 6 and higher will receive a mix of physical materials and Google classroom instruction. Younger children will be given materials to complete at home.\nIn its online statement, the school apologized for the hardship and disruption the school closure will cause parents and asked parents who are front-line staff to contact its office for additional support.}}
{{EMBED >More News Videos Anna Camp opened up about her coronavirus diagnosis and symptoms, which have lasted for over one month.\nEMBED >More News Videos A favorite sitcom from the 1980's is getting a reboot; Tony Danza and Alyssa Milano have confirmed that "Who's the Boss?" is coming back to televIsion.\nEMBED >More News Videos Actor Bryan Cranston said he contracted and recovered from COVID-19 and has donated his plasma because it contains antibodies.\nAlyssa Milano revealed she has tested positive for coronavirus antibodies after receiving multiple COVID-19 negative test results.The actress said she had fallen ill in March and experienced basically "every COVID symptom." Milano posted a picture of herself using a breathing apparatus, along with her antibody results, on Instagram."I had never been this kind of sick. Everything hurt. Loss of smell. It felt like an elephant was sitting on my chest. I couldn't breathe. I couldn't keep food in me," Milano captioned the picture.After experiencing COVID-19 symptoms for nearly two weeks, Milano said she tested negative for the virus twice. The actress also took the finger prick test for COVID-19 antibodies after her symptoms started to subside, but the results also came back negative. So she went a step further."After living the last 4 months with lingering symptoms like, vertigo, stomach abnormalities, irregular periods, heart palpitations, shortness of breath, zero short term memory, and general malaise, I went and got an antibody test from a blood draw (not the finger prick) from a lab," Milano said. "I am positive for COVID antibodies. I had COVID-19."The 47-year-old actress and activist also stressed that the "testing system is flawed" and that "we don't know the real numbers."Milano said she will donate her plasma in the hopes that it will help others battling the virus."I also want you to know, this illness is not a hoax. I thought I was dying. It felt like I was dying," Milano said.}}
{{Thane district will conduct a vaccine dry run at three places on Friday – Thane Civil Hospital, Diva and Shahapur. A team of five people including vaccinators will be present for the dry run in each centre. Preparations have been made across the district with enough provisions to store the vaccines and manpower for the drive in both rural and urban areas.\nDr Kailas Pawar, civil surgeon, Thane district, said, “There are five trained personnel in each of the three centres who will execute the dry run on Friday. Based on our experience in these places, we shall submit a report to the State Health Department. We have made all the necessary preparations. Rooms have been made available for this purpose in these areas. Additionally, we have some staff present at the centres if need be.”\nAs per the state guidelines, a minimum of 25 beneficiaries will visit the centre for the dry run. Preparations have been made for separate entry and exit points at these centres. First, the beneficiaries will be registered and then taken to the vaccination booth. There will be an observation room as well where they will be kept for half-an-hour to ensure there are no after-effects of the vaccination. All of this will be done in a mock process on Friday.\nThe beneficiaries will receive an alert through messages and will have to arrive for the dry run as per the time mentioned. “The main aim of the dry run is to understand the preparedness and the time taken to follow all the protocols.\n“The result of the dry run will help us plan for the actual drive. As of now, we have planned 850 vaccination centres across the district. There will be 100 vaccines administered in each centre across the district on a daily basis. Those who get an alert through the app will be given the vaccine,” added Pawar.\nProvisions have been made for vaccine storage across the district with 190 ice-lined refrigerators, 197 deep freezers, 199 cold boxes, 26,530 ice packs and 4,814 carriers. Across Thane district, there are 66,447 frontline workers who have registered online. Most are from within Thane city. There are around 846 vaccinators who will administer the vaccine.\nAccording to the district health department officers, Thane city has the highest number of frontline workers within the district. There will be an increased number of vaccination centres within Thane city and the civil hospital in Thane will be one of the immunisation centres where the first round of vaccination will take place.\nTMC dry run at Rosa Gardenia\nThe Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) will also conduct a dry run on Friday at Rosa Gardenia Health Centre on Ghodbunder Road. TMC has made provisions for a waiting room, registration centre, vaccination room and observation room for convenience.\n“As per the rules for the dry run, 25 beneficiaries are required, we have shortlisted those health workers from Rosa Gardenia for the same. They will be informed of the timing to reach the venue for the dry run on Friday,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC.\nThane mayor, Naresh Mhaske, and TMC chief, Dr Vipin Sharma, will be present to monitor the dry run.\nNMMC sets up mock centre at Nerul hospital\nThe Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has organised a dry run for the vaccine at the civic-run Nerul Mother and Child Hospital on Friday. The NMMC has geared up with 5,905 litre capacity of 95 cold storage facilities for the vaccine.\nMedical officer of NMMC, Ratnaprabha Chavan, said, “For the dry run, 25 people from the health department have been chosen as dummy patients. All the procedures and protocols would be followed except for actually vaccinating the medicine. The drive will happen from 9 am to 11 am on Jan 8.”\nThe NMMC chief, Abhijit Bangar, said, “We have trained 1,000 employees. However, we have not decided the centres as we are awaiting guidelines from the government. Once the distribution of the vaccines starts, we’ll get clarity on the centres.”\nAfter the commencement of the vaccination process, the registered person will be informed about the day, place and time of vaccination through a message on the registered mobile and the certificate after receiving the vaccination will also be received on the same mobile number.\n“The vaccination booth will be designed as per the government guidelines,” Bangar said.\n(With inputs from Raina Shine, Navi Mumbai)}}
{{Since the death of George Floyd and the nationwide protests that followed it, many athletes have used social media to express their feelings about the situation.\nOne of them, Falcons offensive tackle Kaleb McGary, took a stance he almost immediately regretted.\nIn a Twitter post, Atlanta’s 2019 first-round pick equated protesters to the cops who contributed to Floyd’s death in Minnesota.\nThe 27-year-old wrote that while Floyd’s death was “sad and shameless,” the protestors who hit downtown Atlanta hard were making “themselves no better than the cops they claim to hate. Congrats.”\nThe take drew a lot of backlash, with one fan photoshopping a Klu Klux Klan hood on a photo of McGary. He backed down from his original tweet, deleting it and posting an apology.\n“One sad and senseless death is too many and this trend has to stop,” he wrote. “I know I will never experience the same feeling some of my brothers and sisters feel and I cannot pretend that I will. I apologize for my previous misguided choice of words and the hurt they have caused, that was not my intent. I recognize I shouldn’t have said what I said and I am learning from this.”\nFloyd, 46, died last week after police officer Derek Chauvin pressed his knee into Floyd’s neck after Floyd was suspected of spending a counterfeit $20 bill.}}
{{Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Friday said Nigerian scientists are currently engaged in ground-breaking research towards finding a Nigeria-made vaccine for the COVID-19 virus.\nOsinbajo made the disclosure during a facility tour of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Reference Laboratory in Gaduwa, Abuja.\nHe noted that due to the diligent work of Nigeria’s health workers and experts across the nation, the country has expanded its public health response capabilities and is making progress in the public health sector since after its first COVID-19 case last year.\n“Last week I was in briefing meetings, listening to the landmark research of a team of professors from LUTH who are investigating the efficacy of some of the drugs in the therapeutic management of Covid-19 and are researching its prophylactic use,” the vice president said.\n“A few days later I was listening to Professor Christian Happi and his team who have produced a ground-breaking COVID-19 rapid test, but more remarkably, are developing a Nigerian anti-Covid-19 vaccine,” he said.\nOsinbajo, who was accompanied by the Minister of Health Osagie Ehanire, Minister of State for Health Olorunnimbe Mamora, and the NCDC Director-General Chikwe Ihekweazu, noted that with the increasing number of COVID cases being recorded, the country has a critical situation on its hands currently.\nHe said the nation has activated nearly 120 laboratories nationwide – 70 of them public laboratories – and has significantly ramped up testing and case management capacity.\n“We have expanded the footprint of our sovereign public health response capabilities especially at the subnational level and in areas where previously such capabilities did not exist. Not so long ago, test samples had to be flown out of the country for examination. This is no longer the case as we now have the capacity to process samples internally,” he said.\nOsinbajo observed that such an achievement should not be taken for granted, “but one that we are determined to consolidate on”.\n“This very facility is a testament to the strides that we have made during a short period,” he said of the NCDC Reference Laboratory in Gaduwa. “While we are not yet where we want to be as a nation, we are most certainly not where we were at the onset of the pandemic.”\nThe vice president applauded Nigeria’s public and private healthcare specialists and workers in the line of duty for ensuring the safety, cure and prevention of majority of Nigerians from the COVID-19 virus, sometimes under extremely challenging circumstances.\n“Thousands of health professionals have been working tirelessly on Nigeria’s COVID-19 public health response. From the people across sample collection sites and laboratories ensuring testing, and our dedicated physicians, nurses and other health workers in treatment centres providing care to the sick, to our medical scientists that are conducting research on various aspects of this plague. We also have State Public Health Teams working hard to ensure data reporting and analysis, contact tracing, risk communications and so much more.\n“Within this period, you have all worked extremely hard to activate testing in all states of our country, you have increased our knowledge of this disease, grown our capacity to swiftly identify those infected by the plague and render aid to them,” Osinbajo said.\nThe vice president also gave special commendation to NCDC, saying, “The excellent work I have witnessed today at the NCDC Reference Laboratory is one of the best examples of how this pandemic has produced at least one silver lining, a showcasing of the remarkable skills and talents of our public health experts, here at NCDC and across the health sector.”\nHe said it was fair to say that the staff of the NCDC and all those engaged in Nigeria’s COVID-19 public health response represent public service at its very best in Nigeria, and are an example of the type of public sector the country needs.\n“So, to all staff of the NCDC and Public Health Teams across the states, thank you for the excellent work that you do. I want you all to know that your country is extremely proud of you. Incredible as it may sound, you are indeed making history every single day,” the vice president said.\nHe urged Nigerians to continue to comply with COVID-19 non-pharmaceutical measures and to comply with the advice of scientists and healthcare professionals and to continue to take every measure to keep themselves and their loved ones safe.\n“We will come through this period of our history as we have come through all previous seasons of adversity – by working together, protecting each other, believing in each other and committing to seeing better days ahead for our nation,” he said.\nDuring the tour of the facility in Gaduwa, the Federal Capital Territory, Osinbajo was taken round the laboratories and also interacted with a select group of staff. He paid tribute to the memory of the late NCDC staff, Uche Njoku, who died in the course of service.}}
{{Nevada on Tuesday reported 381 new coronavirus cases and nine additional deaths, according to the Department of Health and Human Services.\nIdeco Flores, an Advanced Emergency Medical Technician with American Medical Response, vaccinates a resident at a COVID-19 vaccine clinic at Chuck Minker Sports Complex in Las Vegas Wednesday, Feb. 17, 2021. (K.M. Cannon/Las Vegas Review-Journal) @KMCannonPhoto\nNevada on Tuesday reported 381 new coronavirus cases and nine additional deaths over the preceding day, with both new cases and fatalities remaining above the recent average, according to state data.\nThe updated figures posted to the Department of Health and Human Services’ coronavirus website brought totals in the state to 311,314 COVID-19 cases and 5,377 deaths.\nNew cases were well above the moving 14-day average of daily recorded cases, which dropped to 265. Deaths were also well above the two-week average of two daily recorded fatalities.\nState public health officials say that data reported early in the work week will likely be inflated because of the decision to stop posting updates on the weekends, which began on Saturday.\nMonday’s new cases also were well above the two-week moving average, though the three deaths reported were only slightly above the daily average of two fatalities.\nData guide: COVID-19’s impact on Nevada\nState and county health agencies often redistribute the daily data after it is reported to better reflect the date of death or onset of symptoms, which is why the moving-average trend lines frequently differ from daily reports and are considered better indicators of the direction of the outbreak.\nThe state’s two-week positivity rate, which essentially tracks the percentage of people tested for COVID-19 who are found to be infected, remained unchanged Tuesday at 5.9 percent. The rate had been declining since mid-January, bottoming out at 4.2 percent in late March and early April.\nClark County’s positive rate remained at 5.7 percent on Tuesday, state data shows.\nThere were 357 people in Nevada hospitalized with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 cases as of Tuesday’s report, 47 fewer than the previous day.\nClark County on Tuesday reported 267 new coronavirus cases and five additional deaths, according to updated figures posted to the Southern Nevada Health District’s coronavirus website.\nCumulative totals in the county rose to 240,574 cases and 4,218 deaths.\nContact Katelyn Newberg at knewberg@reviewjournal.com or 702-383-0240. Follow @k_newberg on Twitter.}}
{{LISLE, Ill. – Navistar International reported a Q2 loss of US$38 million, on falling revenues of $1.9 billion, a 36% decline year-over-year.\nThe company said the decrease was primarily due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, resuling in lower volumes in its core Classes 6-8 markets.\n“Like a number of businesses, our company has been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic and that is reflected in our results,” said Troy A. Clarke, Navistar chairman, president and chief executive officer. “Our team has done a tremendous job managing the business throughout this challenging time, and we have taken a number of steps to position the company to weather this crisis.”\n“We are focused on preserving cash and reducing cost, but not at the risk of sacrificing our future,” added Walter Borst, Navistar chief financial officer. “We remain steadfast in pursuing Navistar 4.0, and while some programs and expenditures have been delayed, they have not been cancelled. It’s important that we continue to invest in our company, even in these difficult times, to ensure our long-term success.”\nThe company said it remained largely in operation through the quarter, though production facilities experienced limited disruptions. Its parts distribution centers remained open, and its dealer network stayed operational.\nTroy Clarke (Photo: Navistar)\n“As an essential business, we took early actions to protect our people so that we could fulfill our duty to keep our assembly plants running and parts distribution centers in operation to serve our customers and dealers who are keeping the economy moving by delivering essential goods and services to our communities,” said Persio Lisboa, chief operating officer. “Throughout the quarter, we have worked closely with our suppliers to overcome significant disruptions to the flow of parts to our facilities and have been moderately successful in maintaining operations.”\nThe company supported customers by launching its International Cares initiative, offering no payments for six months.\n“There are several theories as to the shape of economic recovery, but we have plans in place to respond accordingly,” said Clarke. “Recovery will likely be gradual as businesses reassess operating plans to return to a ‘new normal,’ but this ‘new normal’ will still require trucks. The actions we’ve taken over the past few months have us in position to succeed, no mater the shape of recovery.”}}
{{WILMINGTON, Delaware: President-elect Joe Biden said Friday's (Dec 4) "grim" jobs report shows the economic recovery is stalling and warned the "dark winter" ahead would exacerbate the pain unless the US Congress passes a coronavirus relief bill immediately.\n"The situation requires urgent action," Biden said in a statement. "Americans need help and they need it now."\nAdvertisement\nAdvertisement\nA government report earlier in the day showed the labour market slowing in November amid a surge of COVID-19 cases.\nBiden, the Democratic former vice president, offered support for an emerging bipartisan package of around US$908 billion that has drawn tentative support from members of both parties in Congress.\nBut he said the bill would be "just the start" and vowed to press for additional relief once he takes office in January.\nThe president-elect has focused heavily on the pandemic and economy during the transition, after a campaign in which he made President Donald Trump's mishandling of the coronavirus a central theme.\nAdvertisement\nAdvertisement\nHe is expected to name Jeff Zients, a co-chair of his transition and a former Obama administration economic aide, as his coronavirus "czar" to coordinate the government's pandemic response and oversee an ambitious vaccine distribution effort, according to a person familiar with the matter.\nEarlier this week, he unveiled his economic team, led by his nominee for Treasury secretary, former Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen.\nBut he faces intensifying pressure from congressional allies and rights groups to make ethnically diverse picks for the remaining slots in his administration.\nBiden was set to meet the board of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, a long-running Black civil rights organisation, on Tuesday to discuss criticisms that his cabinet picks lacked the representation he promised during a campaign that was propelled by Black voters.\nAdvertisement\nThe League of United Latin American Citizens, another prominent civil rights group, released a statement on Friday urging "President Biden and his transition team to take a fresh, close-up look at the voting clout of Latinos across America" and ensure his top advisers reflect the nation's diversity.\nMembers of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus on Thursday both publicly and privately lobbied for Biden to name more Latino members to his top positions, stewing over reports that Biden's team sidelined Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham for a position atop the Health and Human Services department after she turned down the Interior secretary job. Lujan Grisham is of Mexican-American descent.\nBiden's selections for top roles thus far have included some ground-breaking picks, including Yellen, who would be the first female Treasury secretary; Neera Tanden, who would be the first woman of color to run the Office of Management and Budget; and Cecilia Rouse, who would be the first Black woman to oversee the Council of Economic Advisers.\nTransition spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters on Friday that Biden would announce more positions early next week, including members of his public health team.\nMeanwhile, Vice President Mike Pence was visiting Georgia on Friday, where he was receiving a briefing on the pandemic at the Atlanta headquarters of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention before attending a rally with Republican US senators David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler, who face January runoff elections that will determine control of the US Senate.\nTrump, a Republican who has still refused to concede to Biden, is scheduled to headline a rally with Perdue and Loeffler on Saturday.\nDownload our app or subscribe to our Telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak: https://cna.asia/telegram}}
{{Funeral services for Jerry Harold Byrom, age 81, of Cushing, will be held Friday, May 22, 2020, at 2 p.m. at the Boren-Conner Funeral Home in Jacksonville, with Bro. Brian Sellers officiating. Burial will follow at Tecula Cemetery. Jerry Harold Byrom was born August 30, 1938, in Aubrey, Texa…}}
{{The Basque Country decides to completely close bars and restaurants as well as the curfew to contain Covid-19 – World\nAt a time when Spain had its worst day in terms of the number of deaths from Covid-19 and new cases of infection in the second wave of the pandemic, the Basque Country has just announced new restrictive measures to increase the progress of the transmission of Covid-19 to stop.\nIn the region and with the aim of “reducing mobility to a maximum”, the Basque head of government ordered the complete closure of bars and restaurants and the curfew from 10:00 p.m. on Thursday.\nAll shops with the exception of pharmacies and petrol stations must also close at 9 p.m.\nThe new measures, said Iñigo Urkullu, will take effect this Saturday.}}
{{Many of them maintained polling was still accurate, but last second changes such as undecided voters swinging towards Mr Trump and higher than expected turnout weighted the results in his favour.\nIn reality, the picture is more complex, as several interacting factors may end up skewing the results of promising polls.\nFor the most part, polls supply valid results, so people can still trust they convey an accurate representation of the people they survey.\nBut the way they contact their respective participants may vary, as may their quality.}}
{{Arlington Mayor Jeff Williams was diagnosed with coronavirus, he said in an address through a Greater Arlington Chamber of Commerce Facebook Live video.\nWhile updating viewers on everything from city Unity Council discussions to the city’s distribution of the COVID-19 vaccine at Esports Stadium Arlington and urging residents to practice social distancing measures, Williams shared that he had tested positive for COVID-19.\n“I don’t wish that on anyone,” he said.\nThe announcement was the first time Williams publicly acknowledged his bout with COVID. Williams did not specify when he was officially diagnosed, whether he still has the virus or the severity of his symptoms.\nHe did, however, urge people to register through the Tarrant County Public Health website for the COVID vaccination.\n“I hope that so many of our citizens can avoid getting that virus and in addition to that please go get signed up for vaccinations,” Williams said.\nThis story will be updated.}}
{{After more than two months of lockdown, the German federal government allowed certain stores and retailers in Germany to reopen on Monday, Trend reports citing Xinhua.\nBookstores, flower stores and garden centers are categorized as "daily needs retail" and could therefore reopen to a limited number of customers and with strict hygiene rules.\nOnly one customer per ten square meters is allowed for shops up to 800 square meters of retail space. Larger shops could welcome one additional customer for every additional 20 square meters of retail space.\nThe German government and the federal states agreed on this second reopening step after schools and hairdressers in the country were already allowed to reopen at the beginning of March. However, regulations could vary locally as details are left to the federal states to decide.\n"We are at the threshold of a new phase of the pandemic that we can go into not carelessly but still with justified hope," Chancellor Angela Merkel said when announcing the plan for easing the COVID-19 measures last week.\nThe restrictions on private meetings have also been relaxed. A household can now meet with another household up to five people in total. Further relaxations for retailers, museums and zoos would depend on the level of infection in each federal state, according to the government.\nOn Monday, the number of new COVID-19 infections in Germany remained slightly above the previous week's level as 5,011 infections were registered in one day, according to the Robert Koch Institute (RKI).\nThe number of deaths related to COVID-19 fell to the lowest level -- 34 -- since early November last year, bringing the total death toll in Germany to 71,934, the RKI said.\nMore than two months after the start of the coronavirus vaccination campaign in Germany, almost 2.5 million people had been fully vaccinated as of Monday, bringing the country's vaccination rate to three percent, according to the RKI.}}
{{The team is scheduled to play Missouri in the Music City Bowl on Dec. 30.\nDec. 12, 2020; Iowa City, Iowa, USA; The Iowa sideline celebrates after linebacker Jack Campbell (31) makes an interception during the fourth quarter of the Iowa v. Wisconsin football game at Kinnick Stadium. Iowa defeated Wisconsin with a score of 28-7.\nThe Iowa football team resumed in-person activities and held practice on Saturday morning. The team’s in-person activities had been on pause since Monday after a COVID-19 outbreak within the program.\nIowa’s return to the practice field is a positive step in ensuring that its Dec. 30 matchup with Missouri in the Music City Bowl is still on track.\nHead coach Kirk Ferentz tested positive for COVID-19 on Dec. 17. The Des Moines Register reported that six members of Iowa’s coaching staff, as well as several other players and staff members, also tested positive for COVID-19. Coaches, players, and other staff members within the program are tested for COVID-19 daily under Big Ten protocols.\nFor Iowa to be back on the field Saturday morning, based on the Big Ten’s testing protocols, it would have had a seven-day rolling average of positive tests under five percent. Iowa has not released how many players are still away from the team because of a positive test or contact tracing purposes.\nIn photos released on Iowa’s social media accounts, Ferentz was shown back at the team’s in-person practice on Saturday.\nIowa is 6-2 this season and has won six games in a row after an 0-2 start. The team has not played since Dec. 12 after its Champions Week matchup with Michigan was canceled because of a COVID-19 outbreak within the Wolverine program. Iowa hadn’t practiced since Dec. 15, the day the Michigan game was canceled. Players were given the rest of the week off after the cancellation, then returned Monday only to have activities paused.\nIn a news release on Monday, Ferentz said he met with the team’s leadership group, and the consensus was that the team still wanted to participate in the bowl game despite the time the team would miss with activities being paused.}}
{{Sarah Tew/CNET\nFor the most up-to-date news and information about the coronavirus pandemic, visit the WHO website\nThe US has vaccinated roughly 14.7 million people since the vaccines were approved in December. And if you're one of the first out of hundreds of millions of Americans who will be getting the COVID-19 vaccine, you'll need to know where to get your shot. And depending on where you live, you could receive the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine. And just like the number of available doses, where you can go to get vaccinated will likely be limited at first.\nPresident-elect Joe Biden said that once he's in office -- his inauguration is tomorrow -- he will amp up COVID-19 vaccine delivery to get as many people vaccinated as possible -- his goal is 100 million vaccinations in the first 100 days of his presidency. He intends to use high school gyms and NFL stadiums as vaccination sites in order to speed up the vaccination process.\nNew federal guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is opening the vaccine to anyone over the age of 65 in many states, as well as anyone who is immunocompromised.\nOnce it's your turn, you'll want to call your health insurance provider for the best options to make sure you're fully covered, as some venues could charge an administration fee. Also note that smaller hospitals may receive a smaller number of COVID-19 vaccines at this time, with larger health facilities that have the most coronavirus patients expected to get a larger majority to start.\nEach state will need to approve hundreds of thousands of proposed vaccine distribution sites, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.\nHere's where can get the COVID-19 vaccine when it's your turn.\nRead also: What is a COVID-19 vaccination card and how will you use it?\nWhere will I be able to get a COVID-19 vaccine?\nNow that the vaccine against the coronavirus is ready, you may have your choice of providers when you receive your inoculation. All of that will depend on which vaccine brand or type is available near where you live. You may have fewer choices if you're in one of the first groups to receive the immunization. More options may be ready by the time there are enough vaccine doses for people in later groups.\nRead more: COVID-19 vaccines are safe, even with long-term data lacking\nAgain, the facilities that are able to offer the vaccine will need to get their protocols up and running, gain approval to officially distribute the vaccination and receive enough doses to treat members of the local population. Here's a running list of places that will be offering the COVID-19 vaccine, with links to more information.\nFor more information on the coronavirus vaccine, here's why you should wear a mask even after getting the COVID-19 vaccine. Also, here's who will get the COVID-19 vaccine next and all the different types of COVID-19 vaccines that people could get.\nThe information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.}}
{{Weddings are cancelled and travel plans are in disarray as Greater Brisbane is plunged into a three-day lockdown after a hotel quarantine cleaner who had been out in the community for days was confirmed as having the highly contagious UK strain of COVID-19.\nJarred Rayward and Annick Myburgh were set to be married on Saturday in front of 86 friends and family.\nMs Myburgh said she was heartbroken when she heard Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk's announcement on Friday morning and decided to quickly bring the wedding forward before new restrictions came into action.\n"It was pretty frantic," Ms Myburgh said.\n"I was pretty disappointed but I mean nothing is going to stop us.\n"We had four different options we were working through, but honestly the flowers would have died"\nQueensland COVID-19 snapshot: Confirmed cases so far: 1,274\nConfirmed cases so far: 1,274 Deaths: 6\nDeaths: 6 Tests conducted: 1,555,273\nTests conducted: 1,555,273 Active cases: 23 Latest information from Queensland Health.\nBut Mr Rayward said he was thrilled so many guests could still make the rescheduled wedding on Friday afternoon — with just 15 guests having to pull out.\n"We're delighted that we decided to do this and we're so happy everyone came, otherwise who knows what could have happened," Mr Rayward said.\nWedding florist Angie Kowal said she had to act swiftly after the venue called with the news of the change to restrictions.\n"I was just pulling all the flowers out of the cool room and I put them back in the cool room because it [was] not going to happen," she said.\n"After two hours of not doing anything, a lost two hours, I had a phone call saying, 'we're doing it today' so in three hours I did it and I'm very happy I did."\nMs Kowal said 200 stems would have gone to waste and she was relieved they could still make the wedding work.\nWedding florist Angie Kowal said she had to act swiftly after the venue called with the news of the change to restrictions. ( ABC News: Baz Ruddick )\n'Just pulled it together'\nMichelle and Zac Woods were also supposed to get married on Saturday, but to beat the Great Brisbane lockdown deadline they were able to hold a last-minute wedding in a family member's backyard on Friday.\nMs Woods said she was lucky she had "amazing family who just pulled it together".\n"My mum and my dad, my brother and his partner have just transformed this house — there were flowers, there was food — everything just came in here," she said.\nThe couple said some of the guests could not make the last-minute wedding, but they understood why the Queensland Government had to make the lockdown decision.\n"We get it … although sadly it was just us that misses out on our special day [with all our friends and family], but we just have to do without," she said.\n"But this is my family home, this is where I grew up, so I got [ready] in my old bedroom and it has a lot of special memories here."\nSpace to play or pause, M to mute, left and right arrows to seek, up and down arrows for volume. Watch Duration: 2 minutes 53 seconds 2 m 53 s Michelle and Zac Woods moved their wedding at the last minute ahead of Brisbane's lockdown\n'We got off the plane'\nMeanwhile Kate Jones, 47 and Cameron Francis, 42, were buckled up on a plane in Brisbane, ready to fly to Tasmania for a 10-day holiday on Friday morning when the travel advice suddenly changed.\n"We were sitting on the plane but refreshing the Tasmanian Government's travel advice," Ms Jones said.\nShe said about 9:40am the travel advice "flipped over".\n"It said all of Brisbane is 'high-risk', so we got off the plane," Ms Jones said.\nCameron Francis and Kate Jones at Brisbane Airport after leaving a flight bound for Tasmania. ( ABC News: Kate McKenna )\nMr Francis said they were the first passengers onboard to notice the Tasmanian Government's announcement that anyone arriving who had been in Greater Brisbane since January 2 would have to quarantine for up to 14 days.\n"We were the first ones to notice because we were checking it live, so we quickly grabbed one of the Qantas hosties to say 'hey I think we need to get off the plane' and so they did a bit of a scramble and let us off and then they started to work it out as well," Mr Francis said.\n"The Qantas staff talked amongst themselves and saw there'd been an update to the advice and then gradually loads of people started coming off the plane."\nMr Francis said he was sad to miss out on the holiday but respected the Government's decision.\n"We're going to miss out on our holiday but it's a global pandemic and I think ultimately, it's great that the Premier and the Chief Health Officer are doing the right thing in Queensland and I really respect the decision the Government's made to keep us safe," he said.\n"It's only a holiday — it's no big deal."\nMs Jones said she planned to stick to her holiday activities of gin, wine and cheese — but at home in Brisbane.\n"You book a holiday in these times knowing that something might happen and it did," she said.\n"I have two parents in a nursing home and I'm used to them being in lockdowns regularly through last year and I don't want to see them put at risk, so I'll comply with all of this until it's over."\nPassengers at Brisbane Airport's baggage collection area shortly after a coronavirus lockdown was announced for Greater Brisbane. ( ABC News: Kate McKenna )\nTourism providers swamped with cancellations\nOn the Sunshine Coast, accommodation providers said their phones had been ringing non-stop since Friday morning's lockdown announcement, with staff taking questions and cancellations from flustered holiday-makers.\nMooloolaba's Landmark Resort and Spa general manager Brett Thompson said his staff had taken 30 cancellations by midday.\n"The announcement was made at 8:00am and we were getting calls a few minutes past," he said.\n"The majority of our arrivals today are from Brisbane as well as the weekend, so even though it's for 72 hours, it's going to have a great impact on our business.\n"We've experienced cancellations, we've experienced amendments to bookings, people are cancelling a week out because their parents are in aged homes in Brisbane — so we're getting the whole spectrum at the moment."\nBrett Thompson said his staff had taken 30 cancellations by midday Friday. ( ABC News: Tara Cassidy )\nMr Thompson said many callers had been left confused by the announcement, unsure of whether they were allowed to use their booking, or what to do if they were already on the way.\n"Absolutely there's been confusion, people are ringing us asking for advice, asking us what happened, but we knew as much as the people that were ringing us," he said.\n"People who were travelling haven't had time to process the information … everybody's been left in the lurch, people were devasted they can't travel.\n"They're in lockdown now and they can't come on their holiday, were having to postpone — it's another great blow to the tourism industry."\nMr Thompson said while the three-day lockdown would have a widespread impact on recovering coast businesses, there had been a small silver lining.\n"It's just another blow, especially for the Sunshine Coast, because their biggest market is Brisbane — people don't have the confidence to travel anymore," he said.\n"It does make an impact where business is affecting the wellbeing of the staff having to take the phone calls, deal with disgruntled customers who can't travel, but I think we're becoming very resilient.\n"We are also getting people ringing up and booking too, so we're getting cancellations, but then getting people who have been prevented from travelling to Brisbane, so they're extending their stay, or rather than travelling to Brisbane staying on the Sunshine Coast.\n"So we are also getting the reverse effect, if you know what I mean."}}
{{KARACHI: The city administration on Sunday sealed mobile market in Karachi over violation of Covid-19 standard operating procedures (SOPs), ARY News reported.\nAs per details, the Assistant Commissioner Central and local administration with the help of police sealed the mobile market in Karachi’s Sakhi Hassan area after several complaints of violation lodged by local people.\nThe Sindh province on Sunday witnessed a massive spike in COVID-19 cases after it recorded 480 fresh virus cases, including 367 from Karachi, within the past 24 hours, Chief Minister Sindh Syed Murad Ali Shah said in a statement.\n“We have performed 11,313 cases during the day, which resulted in 480 people testing positive for the virus,” the chief minister said while giving a routine daily update on COVID-19 situation in the province.\nHe said that 110 patients had recovered from the deadly infection during the past 24 hours while four people lost their battle against it.\nGiving detail of the overall COVID-19 situation in the province, Murad Ali Shah said that 146,331 virus cases have been reported in the province so far of which 2,631 succumbed to the infection.\nComments\ncomments}}
{{Dozens of people have already been arrested and prosecutors across the U.S. have vowed to bring to justice those who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, sending lawmakers into hiding as they began their work to affirm President-elect Joe Biden's victory.\nThe top federal prosecutor for the District of Columbia has said "all options are on the table" for charging the rioters, many of whom were egged on by President Donald Trump's speech hours earlier at a rally over his election loss. Investigators are combing through photos, videos and tips from the public to track down members of the violent mob.\nA Capitol Police officer died after he was hit in the head with a fire extinguisher as rioters descended on the building and many other officers were injured. A woman from California was shot to death by Capitol Police and three other people died after medical emergencies during the chaos.\nSome questions and answers about the investigation into the Capitol breach:\nHow many people have been charged?\nThe U.S. attorney's office for D.C., which handles both local and federal cases in the district, had filed 17 cases in federal court and at least 40 others in the Superior Court by Saturday. The cases in Superior Court mainly have to do with things like curfew violations and gun crimes. Those being tried in federal court, where prosecutors can generally secure longer convictions, are charged with things like violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds, assaulting a federal law enforcement officer and threatening House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.\nDefendants facing federal charges include Richard Barnett, the Arkansas man shown in a widely seen photo sitting in Pelosi's office with his boots on the desk. Barnett is charged with crimes including theft of public money, property or records.\nAnother man being tried in federal court, Lonnie Coffman of Falkville, Alabama, was arrested after authorities say they found guns and 11 Molotov cocktail explosive devices made out of Mason jars, golf tees and cloth rags in his pickup truck.\nA Florida man identified as the person seen in a photo shared widely on social media carrying the speaker of the House's lectern also was arrested Friday. Adam Johnson faces charges including theft of government property.\nWhy haven't more people been charged yet?\nProsecutors say these charges are just the beginning. Authorities said Friday that said additional cases remained under seal and dozens of other people were being sought by federal agents.\nU.S. attorneys in several states, including Kentucky, Ohio and Oregon, said people could face charges in their home states if they travelled to Washington and took part in the riot. The FBI has released photos of people inside the Capitol, urging the public to help identify them.\nIt takes time to build a case. Capitol Police arrested just more than a dozen people the day of the breach while D.C. police arrested around 70. Many people freely left the Capitol, which means investigators now have to work to identify them and track them down. Authorities have to distinguish between those who travelled to Washington only to participate in the rally before the riot versus those who were part of the insurrection at the Capitol. It can take weeks for investigators to go through photos and video, identify suspects, interview witnesses and write a complaint to secure an arrest.\nThose who've been charged so far could also lead investigators to others who joined in the violent siege on Capitol Hill.\nCould they face more serious charges?\nMichael Sherwin, acting U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia, said this week that prosecutors are not keeping anything out of their " arsenal for potential charges." As prosecutors gather more evidence, they can add more charges against those they've already arrested.\nExperts say federal prosecutors could bring rarely used seditious conspiracy charges against some of the rioters. In the wake of protests across the U.S. over police brutality this summer, then-Deputy Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen told prosecutors in September that they should consider using the sedition charge, which calls for up to 20 years in prison, against violent demonstrators. Rosen, who took over the top Department of Justice job when Attorney General William Barr stepped down last month, said the charge does not require proof of a plot to overthrow the U.S. government and gave the hypothetical example of a group that "has conspired to take a federal courthouse or other federal property by force."\nCould Trump be charged?\nTrump urged the crowd to march on the Capitol, even promising to go with them, though he didn't in the end. The president told his supporters to "fight" to stop the "steal" of the election, while his personal lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, called for "trial by combat."\nBut the legal bar for charging the president or any other speakers at the rally with inciting violence is high. Experts say it would be tough to prove that the president intended for violence to happen on Capitol Hill. Trump's speech likely would not be considered illegally inciting violence because he didn't specifically call for people to storm the Capitol, experts say.\n------\nRicher reported from Boston. Associated Press reporter Michael Balsamo contributed to this report from Washington.}}
{{President Donald Trump's national security adviser, Robert O'Brien, returned to work at the White House on Tuesday following his recovery from a mild case of COVID-19, a National Security Council spokesman said.\nO'Brien "has already met with the President, who warmly welcomed him back to the West Wing," spokesman John Ullyot said in a statement. "He has been cleared by doctors after two negative tests for the virus, and has been asymptomatic for over a week," Ullyot said.}}
{{Market Research Store has been keenly studying the global Tuning Fork Crystal Resonator market and has analyzed that the market is expected to register USD XX Million by 2026. The estimated CAGR for the Tuning Fork Crystal Resonator market is approximately XX%. The Tuning Fork Crystal Resonator market has been analyzed from 2016 to 2026. The report provides the users with an up-to-date analysis of the target market scenario and the overall market position.\nGet an exclusive sample of report:http://www.marketresearchstore.com/report/global-tuning-fork-crystal-resonator-market-report-2019-654292#RequestSample\nConsidering the impact of COVID-19 on the global platform the Tuning Fork Crystal Resonator report has been developed in three forecast scenarios, i.e., optimistic, probable, and the pessimistic. The Tuning Fork Crystal Resonator market is fragmented and it is estimated that the degree of fragmentation will accelerate in the coming years. Some of the major players that are operating in the Tuning Fork Crystal Resonator market are Epson, Discera, TXC, Siward Cyrstal Technology, Robert Bosch, Taitien Electronics, New Japan Radio Company, Magic Crystal, Euroquartz, Jauch Quartz. Although the advancement in the technology has offered immense new growth opportunities for the Tuning Fork Crystal Resonator market slow adoption rate among the new market entrants will somewhat limit the market growth.\nThe market players are focusing on increasing their business by concentrating on the growth prospects of the segments that are expected to grow at a rapid rate, while still maintaining a stand in the other segments of the market. The Tuning Fork Crystal Resonator market has been segregated into following segments.\nDownload Full Report @http://www.marketresearchstore.com/report/global-tuning-fork-crystal-resonator-market-report-2019-654292\nFollowing is the Tuning Fork Crystal Resonator market segmentation:\nSegment by Types: Low Frequency, High Frequency\nSegment by Applications: Consumer Device, Mobile Infrastructure, Military/Defense, Aerospace, Automotive\nThe regional presence of the Tuning Fork Crystal Resonator market is categorized into 5 major regions North America, Asia Pacific, Europe, Latin America, and the Middle East and Africa.\n¦ Regional Segmentation\nNorth America The U.S. Canada\nEurope Germany The UK France Spain Italy Rest of Europe\nAsia Pacific China Japan India South Korea Southeast Asia Rest of Asia Pacific\nLatin America Brazil Mexico Rest of Latin America\nMiddle East & Africa GCC South Africa Rest of Middle East & Africa\nNote – In order to provide a more accurate market forecast, all our reports will be updated before delivery by considering the impact of COVID-19.\n(*If you have any special requirements, please let us know and we will offer you the report as you want.)\nAlso Read More Post:https://bulletinline.com/2020/07/24/electro-mechanical-hardware-market-analysis-future-innovation-technology-updates-in-coronavirus-disease-spread-by-top-industry-drivers-amphenol-keystone-electronics-fujitsu/}}
{{By Muhammad Musa More by this Author\nAs the Covid-19 pandemic wears on, more and more people around the world are struggling during lockdowns and economic shutdowns.\nThe coronavirus could nearly double the number of people facing acute hunger, according to the World Food Programme. Recent data collected by BRAC reveals that many families across the Global South can only sustain their food needs for seven days or less; many are trying to cope by eating less.\nTop-down measures to curb the spread of the virus – dramatic steps like lockdowns and bans on large gatherings – pose an immediate threat to families in the poorest communities.\nDeveloped countries\nEven in developed countries, local opposition to top-down decrees is undermining the impact of public health initiatives. Resistance to these mandates will only grow if they are not tempered with solutions and leadership from the hardest-hit communities.\nAdvertisement\nThe key to turning this resistance around, and dealing with a pandemic long term, lies in the Global South. What’s needed is a renewed commitment to community engagement, rather than top-down mandates. The Global South has great experience on which to draw. Here are three examples that have proven effective.\nFirst, local leaders – elected, civic, or religious, in various combinations depending on the community – must be consulted when creating public health strategies. Their concerns must be heard and addressed. In the Rohingya refugee camps in Bangladesh, for instance, many Rohingya religious leaders are working with BRAC to use their platforms to share life-saving information and dispel myths about Covid-19.\nThis is an age-old principle of community development, but in the rush to stop the spread of the virus too many officials around the world forgot about it and simply issued decrees. In India, for instance, when the government called on 1.3 billion people to stay home for three weeks, millions were left stranded, without work, and potentially hungry.\nSecond, existing community networks must be engaged. Community health workers are a great example: These are trusted, trained workers who live in the communities they serve. They can be especially persuasive in informing residents and convincing them to adopt needed measures such as mask-wearing, social distancing, and hand-washing.\nHalf of BRAC’s 100,000 frontline staff and volunteers across 11 countries are community health workers. During the pandemic, we’ve found they’ve been vital in working with local leaders to raise awareness about Covid-19 and to enact preventive measures.\nNon-governmental organisations and other civil society groups have a crucial role to play. They are a vital link between centralised policy conversations and grassroots networks.\nHard-won experience\nThird, hard-won experience with health crises is a powerful asset. In West African countries with a history of Ebola, for instance, adopting social distancing and other public health measures has been far easier. People who went through that emergency – both decision-makers and the public – understood more quickly what was at stake and what was needed. People knew where to turn for trusted information and how to respond.\nCovid-19 isn’t the first public health crisis we’ve seen, and it won’t be the last. Large populations depend on daily wages to put food on the table. Economic activity and public health measures must co-exist. We need to involve local leaders in crucial public health decisions to develop interventions that work. Solutions that rise up are better than those that drop down.}}
{{Then there was also a sense of general malaise that she was attempting to fight.\n"People are tired, I get that," she said. "People in the health care world, we're tired, as well.\n"But now is the time that we really need to step up our game and wear our mask properly and hand wash and keep our 6 feet social distance, and only stay with the people that are within our household."\nThere, like everywhere throughout rural North Carolina, mask adherence proved challenging. Eight months after public health officials began recommending masks to slow the spread, Brock was still spending time attempting to educate people on how to wear one.\n"We try to get that education out about it's not just a mask that's covering your mouth," she said. "You've got to wear it properly over your nose and your mouth for it to work."\nBurnout, fatigue and the need to be 'on'\nBack in Nash County, Nash General Hospital has been preparing, since the spring, for virus patients to test the hospital's limits. The staff there spent weeks earlier this year converting parts of the hospital into a safer space to treat COVID-19 patients, and then waited for the worst.}}
{{The seat of power in the United States came under siege. A violent mob, instigated by US President Donald Trump stormed the US Congress.}}
{{During the coronavirus pandemic, Social Security continues to provide help to you and other people in your communities.\nWhile offices are not providing service to walk-in visitors due to COVID-19, staff remains ready and able to help by phone with most Social Security business. You can speak with a representative by calling the Redding Social Security office at 1-866-964-1236.\nMany secure and convenient online services are available at www.ssa.gov/onlineservices:\nApply for Retirement, Disability, and Medicare benefits; check the status of an application or appeal; request a replacement Social Security card (in most areas); print a benefit verification letter and more.\nAlthough you can do most of your business online, that service channel isn’t right for everyone and they prefer the phone. If you have a critical situation that cannot be addressed by phone or online, staff may be able to schedule an appointment for you.\nIf you need help, don’t wait. Call now and get the help you need. Getting medical and other documentation can be difficult due to the pandemic, so certain deadlines are being extended wherever possible.}}
{{Atletico Madrid forward Luis Suarez is set to return to action this weekend after the Liga club confirmed on Thursday that the Uruguayan had returned a negative COVID-19 test.\nThe 33-year-old tested positive for coronavirus last month on international duty and missed his country’s win over Colombia and defeat by Brazil as well as Atleti’s last four fixtures.\n“Luis Suarez will rejoin the first team group training session... after returning a negative PCR test conducted by La Liga,” a club statement read.\nSuarez joined Atleti from Barcelona in the last transfer window and has scored five goals in six La Liga appearances for the Rojiblancos.\nDiego Simeone’s side, who host Valladolid on Saturday before traveling to Salzburg for a crunch Champions League group stage tie on Wednesday, currently sit second in La Liga on 23 points, one point behind leaders Real Sociedad with two games in hand.\nRead more:\nUruguayan Suarez says he was treated shabbily in final days at Barca\nCoronavirus: Soccer clubs in London, Liverpool set to welcome fans back to stadiums\nArgentinian soccer superstar Maradona dies of heart attack\nLast Update: Friday, 04 December 2020 KSA 23:46 - GMT 20:46}}
{{Close Get email notifications on {{subject}} daily!\nYour notification has been saved.\nThere was a problem saving your notification.\n{{description}}\nEmail notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.}}
{{Video above: CNN’s Sam Kiley reports Beirut protesters targeting government buildings in an effort to get Lebanese government offiicials to resign.\nBEIRUT (AP) — Lebanon’s prime minister says he is stepping down from his job in the wake of the Beirut port explosion last week that triggered public fury and mass protests.\nIn a brief televised speech, Prime Minister Hassan Diab said on Monday that he is taking “a step back” so he can stand with the people “and fight the battle for change alongside them.”\nHe said: “I declare today the resignation of this government. May God protect Lebanon,” repeating the last phrase three times.\nA brief while earlier, Diab’s Cabinet resigned. The developments follow a weekend of anti-government protests in the wake of the Aug. 4 explosion in Beirut’s port that caused widespread destruction, killed at least 160 people and injured about 6,000 others.\nDiab blamed corrupt politicians who preceded him for the “earthquake” that has hit Lebanon.\n“They (political class) should have been ashamed of themselves because their corruption is what has led to this disaster that had been hidden for seven years,” he added.\nThe scene of the explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut is seen through a damaged apartment in Beirut, Lebanon, Monday, Aug. 10, 2020. World leaders and international organizations pledged nearly $300 million in emergency humanitarian aid to Beirut in the wake of the devastating explosion, but warned on Sunday that no money for rebuilding the capital will be made available until Lebanese authorities commit themselves to the political and economic reforms demanded by the people. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nRows of destroyed trucks are seen at the site of last week’s explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Monday, Aug. 10, 2020. World leaders and international organizations pledged nearly $300 million in emergency humanitarian aid to Beirut in the wake of the devastating explosion, but warned on Sunday that no money for rebuilding the capital will be made available until Lebanese authorities commit themselves to the political and economic reforms demanded by the people. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nA man inspects a destroyed building near the site of last week’s explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Monday, Aug. 10, 2020. World leaders and international organizations pledged nearly $300 million in emergency humanitarian aid to Beirut in the wake of the devastating explosion, but warned on Sunday that no money for rebuilding the capital will be made available until Lebanese authorities commit themselves to the political and economic reforms demanded by the people. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nPeople stand in their damaged house near the site of last week’s explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Monday, Aug. 10, 2020. World leaders and international organizations pledged nearly $300 million in emergency humanitarian aid to Beirut in the wake of the devastating explosion, but warned on Sunday that no money for rebuilding the capital will be made available until Lebanese authorities commit themselves to the political and economic reforms demanded by the people. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nA soldier walks past damaged vehicles, Monday, Aug. 10, 2020, in Beirut, Lebanon, near the site of last week’s explosion that hit the city’s seaport. World leaders and international organizations pledged nearly $300 million in emergency humanitarian aid to Beirut in the wake of the devastating explosion, but warned on Sunday that no money for rebuilding the capital will be made available until Lebanese authorities commit themselves to the political and economic reforms demanded by the people. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nEarth moving equipment and rescue workers search for victims,Monday, Aug. 10, 2020, in Beirut, Lebanon, near the site of last week’s explosion that hit the city’s seaport. World leaders and international organizations pledged nearly $300 million in emergency humanitarian aid to Beirut in the wake of the devastating explosion, but warned on Sunday that no money for rebuilding the capital will be made available until Lebanese authorities commit themselves to the political and economic reforms demanded by the people. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nA woman carries her belongings as she leaves her damaged house, Monday, Aug. 10, 2020, in Beirut, Lebanon, near the site of last week’s explosion that hit the city’s seaport. World leaders and international organizations pledged nearly $300 million in emergency humanitarian aid to Beirut in the wake of the devastating explosion, but warned on Sunday that no money for rebuilding the capital will be made available until Lebanese authorities commit themselves to the political and economic reforms demanded by the people. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nA soldier walks past a damaged car at the site of last week’s explosion that hit the city’s seaport in Beirut, Lebanon, Monday, Aug. 10, 2020. World leaders and international organizations pledged nearly $300 million in emergency humanitarian aid to Beirut in the wake of the devastating explosion, but warned on Sunday that no money for rebuilding the capital will be made available until Lebanese authorities commit themselves to the political and economic reforms demanded by the people. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nFrench emergency workers, part of a special unit working with chemicals, walk next to damaged containers near the site of last week’s explosion, in the port of Beirut, Lebanon, Monday, Aug. 10, 2020. The unit is identifying potential leaks and securing an area where containers with flammable liquids have been damaged by the blast. (AP Photo/Felipe Dana)\nProtesters throw stones against the Lebanese riot police, during anti-government protest following Tuesday’s massive explosion which devastated Beirut, Lebanon, Monday, Aug. 10, 2020. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nProtesters throw stones against the Lebanese riot police, during anti-government protest following Tuesday’s massive explosion which devastated Beirut, Lebanon, Monday, Aug. 10, 2020. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nProtesters turn back tear gas canister against the Lebanese riot police, during anti-government protest following Tuesday’s massive explosion which devastated Beirut, Lebanon, Monday, Aug. 10, 2020. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nThe Associated Press’ earlier story follows below.\nBEIRUT (AP) — Lebanon’s government resigned Monday amid widespread public fury at the country’s ruling elite over last week’s devastating explosion in Beirut. The move risks opening the way to dragged-out negotiations over a new Cabinet amid urgent calls for reform.\nPrime Minster Hassan Diab headed to the presidential palace to submit the Cabinet’s group resignation, said Health Minister Hamad Hassan. It follows a weekend of anti-government protests in the wake of the Aug. 4 explosion in Beirut’s port that caused widestpread destruction, killed at least 160 people and injured about 6,000 others.\nThe moment typified Lebanon’s political dilemma. Since October, there have been mass demonstrations demanding the departure of the entire sectarian-based leadership over entrenched corruption, incompetence and mismanagement.\nBut the ruling oligarchy has held onto power for so long — since the end of the civil war in 1990 — that it is difficult to find a credible political figure not tainted by connections to them.\nAlthough Diab’s resignation had appeared inevitable after the catastrophe, he seemed unwilling to leave and only two days ago made a televised speech in which he offered to stay on for two months to allow for various factions to agree on a roadmap for reforms. But the pressure from within his own Cabinet proved to be too much.\nDiab’s government was formed after his predecessor, Saad Hariri, stepped down in October in response to the demonstrations. It took months of bickering among the leadership factions before they settled on Diab.\nHis government, which was supported by Hezbollah and its allies and seen as one-sided, was basically doomed from the start, tasked with meeting demands for reform but made up of all the factions that reformers want out. His government was basically doomed from the start, tasked with meeting demands for reform but made up of all the factions that reformers want out.\nNow the process must start again, with Diab’s government in a caretaker role as the same factions debate a new one.\n“I hope that the caretaking period will not be long because the country cannot take that. Lets hope a new government will be formed quickly,” Public Works Minister Michel Najjar told reporters. “An effective government is the least we need to get out of this crisis.”\nThe weekend protests saw clashes with security forces firing tear gas at protesters.\nThe explosion is believed to have been caused by a fire that ignited a 2,750-ton stockpile of highly volatile ammonium nitrate. The material had been stored at the port since 2013 with few safeguards despite numerous warnings of the danger.\nThe result was a disaster Lebanese blame squarely on their leadership’s corruption and neglect. Losses from the catastrophic blast are estimated to be between $10 billion to $15 billion, with nearly 300,000 people left homeless.\nThe last decision taken by Diab’s government before its resignation was to refer the case of the explosion to the Supreme Judicial Council, which handles crimes infringing on Lebanon’s national security as well as political and state security crimes. The Supreme Judicial Council is Lebanon’s top judicial body.\nA judge on Monday questioned the heads of the country’s security agencies. Public Prosecutor Ghassan El Khoury questioned Maj. Gen. Tony Saliba, the head of State Security, according to state-run National News Agency. It gave no further details, but other generals are scheduled to be questioned.\nState Security had compiled a report about the dangers of storing the material at the port and sent a copy to the offices of the president and prime minister on July 20. The investigation is focused on how the ammonium nitrate came to be stored at the port and why nothing was done about it.\nNajjar, the public works minister, said he learned about the material’s presence 24 hours before the blast, receiving a report about the material and holding a meeting with port officials before calling its chief, Hassan Korayetem.\n“I wrote a report in the morning the explosion happened in the evening,” Najjar said. Asked why he only learned of it the day before, Najjar said, “I don’t know. Truly I don’t know.”\nAbout 20 people have been detained after the blast, including the head of Lebanon’s customs department and his predecessor, as well as the head of the port. Dozens of people have been questioned, including two former Cabinet ministers, according to government officials.\nOn Sunday, world leaders and international organizations pledged nearly $300 million in emergency humanitarian aid to Beirut, but warned that no money for rebuilding the capital would be made available until Lebanese authorities commit themselves to the political and economic reforms demanded by the people.\nIran, meanwhile, expressed concern that Western countries and their allies might exploit anger over the explosion to pursue their political interests. Iran supports the Hezbollah militant group, which along with its allies dominates the government and parliament.\nIranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Abbas Mousavi said “it is natural for people to be frustrated.” But he said it would be “unacceptable if some individuals, groups and foreign countries use the incident as a pretext for their purposes and intentions.”\nIsraeli Defense Minister Benny Gantz drew a line Monday between the blast and claims that Hezbollah stores its rockets and weapons deep inside civilian areas.\nWhile he did not accuse Hezbollah and its arms of being linked to the blast, Gantz said villages and towns across Lebanon were packed with Hezbollah arms that, if set off — whether by Israeli operations or by accident — would destroy homes. He said Hezbollah was Lebanon’s biggest problem.}}
{{SPRINGFIELD, Mass. (WWLP) - According to Time Magazine, climate change could cause more annual deaths globally than infectious disease by the year 2100.\nOur climate is changing, that is a fact. One of the biggest signals of our changing climate is the increase in the global temperature. According to NOAA, the global combined land and ocean temperature has increased at an average rate of 0.13 degrees Fahrenheit per decade since 1880; however, the average rate of increase since 1981 is more than twice that. Small shifts in averages, mean big changes in temperature extremes we experience.}}
{{The video will start in 8 Cancel\nWant the latest news sent straight to your inbox? Don't miss anything! Sign up for regular updates from WalesOnline Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email\nA massive explosion has shook the capital city of Lebanon, Beirut, killing at least 27 people and injuring thousands of people.\nReports say the explosion occurred in the port area of the city and sent shock waves across the immediate surroundings, shattering windows and causing apartment balconies to collapse.\nIt is understood firefighters were in the area battling a fire at the time of the explosion.\nLebanese Health Minister Hamad Hassan has reported a "high number of injuries" with at least 27 people dead and over 2,500 people have been injured.\nThe country's media reports that the explosion happened in a fireworks warehouse. In video footage of the explosion, smaller burst of explosives can be seen coming from the smoke before a second and larger explosion erupts.\nWhat happened?\n(Image: AP Photo/Hassan Ammar)\nThe cause of the blast was not immediately known.\nVideo taken by residents showed a fire raging at the port, sending up a giant column of smoke, illuminated by flashes of what appear to be fireworks. Local TV stations reported that a fireworks warehouse was involved.\nThe fire then appeared to catch at a nearby building, triggering a massive explosion, sending up a mushroom cloud and a shock wave over the city.\nLebanon's state news agency NNA and two security sources said the blast happened at warehouses housing explosives.\nA third security source said there were chemicals stored in the area, reports The Mirror.\n(Image: AP Photo/Hassan Ammar)\nIt was not immediately clear what caused the blast or what kind of explosives were in the warehouses.\nInitial reports suggest that Warehouse 12 was stockpiling fireworks and multiple forms of chemicals.\n"It was like a nuclear explosion," said Walid Abdo, a 43-year-old school teacher in the neighbourhood of Gemayzeh near Beirut.\nCharbel Haj, who works at the port, said it started as small explosions like firecrackers, then the huge blast erupted and he was thrown off his feet. His clothes were torn.\nHow many people were injured by the blast?\n(Image: AP Photo/Hassan Ammar) (Image: AP Photo/Hussein Malla)\nLebanese Red Cross official Georges Kettaneh said there were dead and wounded, but did not have an exact figure - just saying there were hundreds of casualties.\nAt least 10 bodies were taken to hospitals, a security source and a medical source told Reuters.\nA civil defence official on the scene of the blast said his men had evacuated dozens to hospitals and that there were still bodies inside the port, many of them under debris.\nDozens of ambulances ferried the injured from the port area, where the wounded lay on the ground, Associated Press staff at the scene said.\nThe impact on the wider city\nMiles from the port, balconies were knocked down, windows shattered, streets were covered with glass and bricks and lined with wrecked cars. Motorcyclists picked their way through traffic, carrying the injured.\nThe Guardian reports that the shake was also felt in Cyprus, which is 145 miles away from the city.\nOne journalist at the scene has described how patients are being treated in the carpark of a hospital due to being overwhelmed.\nWhat officials are saying\nMarwan Abboud, the governor of Beirut arrived at the scene of the explosion and told Sky News there were firefighters on the scene at the time of the explosion.\nHe said they have now vanished, reports The Guardian.\nHe said: “They came to fight the fire, and then they vanished, “We don’t know where they are. We’re here to look for them.\n“This reminds me of what happened in Japan, to Hiroshima and Nagasaki,\n“I’ve never seen damage of this size and width, and so catastrophic. This is a national catastrophe. This is a problem for Lebannon and we don’t know how we’re going to get out of it."}}
{{Ten new COVID-19 cases in the City of Kawartha Lakes, two in Northumberland County and one in Haliburton County were reported Friday afternoon by the Haliburton, Kawartha, Pine Ridge District Health Unit as an outbreak at the Caressant Care McLaughlin long-term care home in Lindsay continued to grow.\nThe number of cumulative cases for the health unit is now nearing the 800 mark and the number of active cases has now topped 100.\nThe City of Kawartha Lakes has now had 387 cumulative cases with 60 active, Northumberland County has had 355 cumulative cases with 40 active and Haliburton County has 46 cumulative cases with seven active.\nThe City of Kawartha Lakes also has three probable cases, the health unit also reported Friday.\nMore new cases are expected in coming days because the health unit is monitoring 76 people in the City of Kawartha Lakes, 56 in Northumberland County and 12 in Haliburton County who are considered to be at highest risk because of close contact with a confirmed case, along with 13 other high-risk contacts.\nNo new deaths were reported Friday.\nRoss Memorial Hospital in Lindsay was down to one patient with the virus as of Friday.\nThe Caressant Care McLaughlin outbreak was declared on Jan. 9. As of Thursday, 19 residents and 15 staff members had tested positive. The facility is receiving support from the health unit, Ross Memorial Hospital and the Central East Local Health Integration Network to help manage the outbreak. Deep cleaning and regular testing of residents and staff is continuing, the operator reports. The residents and staff are expected to get vaccinated by mid-February.\nIn addition to the Caressant Care McLaughlin outbreak, there continues to be eight outbreaks in the jurisdiction.\nThey are at Warkworth Place long-term care home, Golden Plough Lodge long-term care home in Cobourg, a Canadian Centre for Addictions congregate setting, the Tower of Port Hope retirement home, Maplewood long-term care home in Brighton, Fenelon Court long-term care home in Fenelon Falls, the Island Park Retirement Residence in Campbellford and Hope Street Terrace long-term care home in Port Hope.\nTwo residents have died at Hope Street Terrace, where nine residents and 13 staff members have now tested positive for the virus. The staff members are isolating and recovering at home, according to Hope Street Terrace.\nWarkworth Place also had a resident who tested positive and has died. Two staff members have also tested positive for the virus and are currently isolating and recovering at home, the long-term care centre reported Thursday.\nThe Fenelon Court outbreak was declared Jan. 8 after one staff member tested positive. The staff member has since recovered. All residents have been tested and tested negative, according to Dr. Rhonda Collins, chief medical officer for the home’s operator Revera.\nLoading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading...\nOntario COVID-19 cases\nThere is no longer an outbreak at the Warkworth Institution federal prison south of Campbellford where three inmates who had tested positive for the virus have now recovered. There have been 1,045 inmate tests to date at Warkworth Institution, Correctional Services Canada reported Thursday. Some Warkworth inmates were among about 600 elderly and at-risk inmates at federal prisons across Canada to get vaccinated, making them the first in the Peterborough area to get the vaccine.\nThe Central East Correctional Centre in Lindsay has one active inmate case and two recovered inmate cases along with six cases among inmates who have since been released, Public Health Ontario reported Wednesday.}}
{{LAFAYETTE, Ind. – The COVID-19 seven-day positivity rate for Tippecanoe County dropped again Thursday, according to the Indiana State Department of Heath Dashboard, to 6%.\nThe county also reported two additional deaths, bringing the total number of people who have died from the coronavirus since the beginning of the pandemic to 130. Another 108 new cases were reported Thursday.\nTippecanoe County had a seven-day positivity rate of 16.3% on Jan. 11.\nThe seven-day positivity rate for unique individuals also continued to drop, down from 14.2% Wednesday to 13% Thursday. The continued drop started with a high of 29.5% just over a week ago.\nThe positivity rate for unique individuals calculates the number of people who test positive, regardless of how many times a single person has been tested, a calculation the ISDH started reporting in August 2020.\nWeekly update:Indiana's COVID-19 map shows signs of improvement\nTrending now:COVID-19 pandemic aids thieves in Indiana mall jewelry heist\nThe rate remains above the 10% threshold Tippecanoe County health officials use to determine imposed restrictions.\nThursday's report brings the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases to 17,799. Across the state, Indiana passed 600,000 total reported cases.\nNew positive cases, deaths and tests occur over a range of dates, but the daily update available at noon each day reflects data reported to the state in the past 24 hours.\nTippecanoe County moved into the “red” category on Jan. 13, after remaining as orange, the second-highest level of concern and restrictions, for months. A red-status county is one designated by the ISDH as having very high positivity and community spread.\nHow many people have been tested in Tippecanoe County?\nSince the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020, 99,714 individuals have been tested, with 425 additional individuals tested in Thursday's report.\nHealth orders in Tippecanoe County will remain in effect, the Journal & Courier has reported, until the county's seven-day positivity rate for all tests given remains below 10% for 14 days.\nOthers are reading:Police investigating shooting at apartments next to Lafayette City Hall\nWhat are COVID-19 restrictions in Tippecanoe County?\nThe health orders for Tippecanoe County, now designated as level RED, include:\nCultural, entertainment and tourism venues, gyms and fitness centers and senior day centers are limited to 50% capacity.\nRetail businesses are limited to 75% capacity.\nRestaurants are limited to 50% indoor capacity and 100% outdoor capacity.\nBars at 25% indoor capacity and 100% outdoor capacity.\nUnder Gov. Eric Holcomb’s executive order, counties designated as “red” are required to:\nLimit social gatherings to 25 people\nCommunity recreational and sports leagues may continue but are limited to participants, support personnel and parents and guardians of their minor children\nAll businesses must adhere to strict social distancing guidelines and curbside pickup is preferred\nSenior center activities are now suspended.\nDeanna Watson is the executive editor at the Journal & Courier. Contact her at dwatson@gannett.com. Follow her on Twitter at @deannawatson66.}}
{{Letrozole API market research report covers and analyses several factors which affect the growth of the Letrozole API market. The report on the Letrozole API market also provides a detailed analysis of the major aspects of the companies such as – financial aspects, research and development and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on these companies in the estimated forecasts period. [email protected] or call us on +1-312-376-8303.\nDownload Report sample for free ckecl here: @ https://www.cognitivemarketresearch.com/pharma-%26-healthcare/letrozole-api-market-report#download_report\nReport Scope:\nSome of the key types analyzed in this report are as follows:\n>99%, 0.99\nSome of the key applications as follow:\n1 mg Tablet, 2.5 mg Tablet, Others\nFollowing are the major key players:\nSun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd, Ratnamani Health Care Pvt Ltd, Xieli Pharmaceutical, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd, Taj Pharmaceuticals Limited, Fresenius Kabi Oncology Limited, Shin Poong Pharm, Sinoway Industrial Co. Ltd\nRequest COVID-19 Impact Analysis for Letrozole API by clicking on following links:\n@ https://www.cognitivemarketresearch.com/pharma-%26-healthcare/letrozole-api-market-report#download_report\nThe Letrozole API market also determines the introduction of new products and strategies which are used by several companies to reduce the impact of the pandemic of COVID-19. The research report also analyses the value chain analysis of the Letrozole API market for the estimated forecast period. It also analyses the risk factors which are associated with the Letrozole API market.The worldwide geological [Latin America, North America, Asia Pacific, Middle & East Africa, and Europe] analysis of the Letrozole API market has furthermore been done cautiously in this report.\nInquiry for Buying or Customization of Report: @ https://www.cognitivemarketresearch.com/pharma-%26-healthcare/letrozole-api-market-report#download_report\nThere are 13 Chapters to display in the Letrozole API market:\n• Chapter 1: Introductory overview, Specifications, Classification, and Applications of Letrozole API market, Segment by Regions;\n• Chapter 2: Manufacturing Cost Structure, Raw Material and Suppliers, Manufacturing Process, Industry Chain Structure;\n• Chapter 3: Technical Data and Manufacturing Plants Analysis of Letrozole API, Capacity and Commercial Production Rate, Manufacturing Plants Distribution, R&D Status and Technology Source, Raw Materials Sources Analysis;\n• Chapter 4: Overall Market Analysis, Capacity Analysis (Company Segment), Sales Analysis (Company Segment), Sales Price Analysis (Company Segment);\n• Chapter 5: Regional Analysis\n• Chapter 6 and 7: Segment Analysis by Types and Applications\n• Chapter 8: Company profiling of major manufacturers\n• Chapter 9: Market Trend Analysis, Regional Market Trend, Market Trend by Product Type and Applications\n• Chapter 10: Regional Marketing Type Analysis, International Trade Type Analysis, Supply Chain Analysis;\n• Chapter 11, 12 and 13: Letrozole API sales channel, distributors, traders, dealers, Research Findings and Conclusion, appendix and data source………….. To check the complete Table of Content click here: @ https://www.cognitivemarketresearch.com/pharma-%26-healthcare/letrozole-api-market-report#table_of_contents\nIn addition, the report on Letrozole API market also provides a detailed analysis of the impact of the several political, environmental, social, technological, legal and economical factors which are likely to affect the Letrozole API market. Moreover, the change in the trading policies due to COVID-19 has also been covered in depth.The report also provides a detailed analysis of the financial information, companies which are operating and the key strategies which are used by these players to overcome the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.\nAbout Us: http://www.cognitivemarketresearch.com/about-us\nNicolas Shaw,\nSales Manager,\nGlobal Business Development,\nWebsite: http://www.cognitivemarketresearch.com\nEmail: [email protected] or call us on +1-312-376-8303.\nAddress: 20 N State Street, Chicago, Illinois, 60602, United States.\n**********Download the Entire Report*************************************************\nhttps://www.cognitivemarketresearch.com/pharma-%26-healthcare/letrozole-api-market-report}}
{{A Missouri woman allegedly caught on video carrying a broken sign from House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office during the US Capitol riot has surrendered to the FBI, authorities said.\nEmily Hernandez, of Sullivan, was arrested Tuesday in St. Louis, according to a Department of Justice website detailing the federal charges against suspects in the US Capitol siege on Jan. 6 that left five people dead, including Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick.\nHernandez, who was charged last week, can be seen in photos and video from inside the Capitol holding up a broken piece of engraved wood that hung over Pelosi’s office, court documents show.\nAt least three tipsters later identified Hernandez as the woman seen in the photos and in footage aired by ITV News. One source also told FBI investigators they saw video that Hernandez posted of herself inside the Capitol, a statement of facts shows.\nThe cost to replace Pelosi’s nameplate was estimated at $870 by a curator for the House of Representatives, an FBI agent wrote in the seven-page filing.\nHernandez has been charged with five misdemeanors: entering a restricted building, disorderly conduct, stealing federal property, disorderly or disruptive conduct in the Capitol and parading, demonstrating or picketing in the Capitol.\nHernandez had her initial court appearance via video later Tuesday. A judge ordered she be released without bond ahead of her next court appearance in Washington, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported.\nAn attorney for Hernandez did not dispute allegations that she was the woman caught on video and in photos inside the Capitol. He also declined to say where the fragment is now, the newspaper reported.\n“This is obviously a mistake but she’s ready to move past it,” Hernandez’s attorney, Ethan Corlija, told reporters. “She’s the girl next door. It’s an unfortunate situation and it’s one she didn’t want to put herself in. She’s willing to move beyond it, do the things she needs to do to make it right and get on with the rest of her life.”\nMore than 150 people have been arrested as of Tuesday in connection to the Jan. 6 riot.\nWith Post wires}}
{{Chennai (Tamil Nadu) [India], January 22 (ANI): Jharkhand Education Minister Jagarnath Mahto has completely recovered from a severe lung infection caused by COVID-19, hospital officials said on Thursday.\nMGM Healthcare, a private hospital in Tamil Nadu, performed a successful bilateral lung transplant on Mahto, according to an official release.\n"I thank the team of doctors who took good care of me. I wish soon I will be back to Jharkhand and serve the people again," said Mahto.\nThe 54-year-old Minister in addition to being infected by the coronavirus was also suffering from tram hypertension diabetes and coronary artery disease.\n"The Minister has now recovered and is getting discharged from the hospital," the hospital said. (ANI)}}
{{A World War II veteran from Alabama has recovered from Covid-19 in time for his 104th birthday.\nWorld War II veteran and Covid-19 survivor Major Wooten on his 104th birthday. Source: Associated Press\nA relative says Major Wooten is physically drained and a little fuzzy mentally after battling the coronavirus.\nBut, granddaughter Holly Wooten McDonald says he appears to be on the mend as he marks his birthday.\nMcDonald said her grandfather tested positive for coronavirus on November 23 after her mother — his daughter — got the illness.\nread more Expert predicts 'most difficult time in public health history' for US amid another grim Covid-19 record\nHe was hospitalised, but the Alabama football fan and former worker at US Steel got better.}}
{{Former Mayor of New York Rudy Giuliani, a lawyer for President Donald Trump, speaks during a news conference at the Republican National Committee headquarters, Thursday Nov. 19, 2020, in Washington. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin)\nWASHINGTON, D.C. (KXAN) — On Sunday, President Donald Trump announced via Twitter that his attorney, Rudy Giuliani has tested positive for COVID-19.\nGiuliani has been in the spotlight in the weeks since the 2020 Presidential Election, as he’s been a central figure in the Trump campaign’s contest of election results in several states.\nTrump made the announcement Sunday afternoon, saying: “@RudyGiuliani, by far the greatest mayor in the history of NYC, and who has been working tirelessly exposing the most corrupt election (by far!) in the history of the USA, has tested positive for the China Virus. Get better soon Rudy, we will carry on!!!”\nAs a top member of Trump’s legal team, Giuliani has helped drive several of the lawsuits filed by the president’s campaign which advance still unproven claims of voter fraud in the election.\nA Nov. 8 press conference held by Giuliani drew widespread attention when several claims of mass fraud were made, and Giuliani appeared to have hair dye dripping from his head.\nGiuliani is the latest of the Trump team to test positive, after several key members, including Trump himself, tested positive months ago.}}
{{A Texas man who helped storm the U.S. Capitol later threatened to kill his wife and children if they turned him in to the authorities, according to federal court documents filed on Monday.\nGuy Reffitt, 48, faces charges of obstruction of justice and knowingly entering a restricted building without lawful authority in connection with the Jan. 6 riot, according to a criminal complaint.\nReffitt allegedly returned home from the riot and bragged that “we stormed the Capitol,” then warned his family he’d shoot any of them who turned him in, his son told investigators. Reffitt’s wife also described multiple instances when he allegedly threatened their lives over turning him in, though she said he was “super passionate” and likely didn’t mean it, according to an affidavit filed in U.S. District Court.\nStory continues below advertisement\n“If you turn me in, you’re a traitor and you know what happens to traitors,” he told his daughter, according to his wife. “Traitors get shot.”\nA suspect identified by the U.S. Justice Department as Guy Reffitt is shown outside the U.S. Capitol during a riot on Jan. 6, 2021. Reuters/YouTube\nAuthorities say Reffitt is a member of the Three Percenters, a far-right extremist militia, and that he travelled from the Dallas area to D.C. with a firearm and a Go-Pro camera to be part of the events of Jan. 6.\nThe riot broke out after U.S. President Donald Trump whipped up thousands of his supporters with false claims about the election he lost, then urged them to march on the Capitol where lawmakers were in the process of certifying Joe Biden‘s election win. The mob consisted of a wide range of Trump supporters and far-right groups, including the Proud Boys, white supremacists, militia members and believers in the QAnon hoax.\nStory continues below advertisement\n“The mob was fed lies,” Sen. Mitch McConnell, the most powerful Republican in the Senate, said of the riot Tuesday. “They were provoked by the president and other powerful people. And they tried to use fear and violence to stop a specific proceeding of the first branch of the federal government which they did not like.”\nFive people, including a Capitol Police officer, were killed in the riot.\nReffitt was spotted at the riot in a tactical vest and a helmet outfitted with a Go-Pro camera, according to the affidavit. The documents cited Reuters and Fox News footage of Reffitt washing his eyes out on the steps of the Capitol.\nStory continues below advertisement\nGPS data from Reffitt’s phone also placed him at the Capitol during the riot, and his wife and son later confirmed that he’d left to attend the event, the affidavit said.\n“It appears that Reffitt was at or past the police line protecting the building, and was sprayed in the eyes with some sort of chemical irritant,” the affidavit said.\nReffitt returned home from the riot on Jan. 8 and initially boasted about his role and the footage he shot, his son told investigators. However, his mood changed a few days later when he said he had to “erase everything” because the FBI was after him, the affidavit said.\nThat’s when he allegedly started threatening his wife, adult son and underage daughter, according to court documents.\nStory continues below advertisement\nHe threatened to “put a bullet” in his daughter’s phone if she posted about his participation on social media, and vowed to “do what he had to do” to protect his country if his family reported him, according to the affidavit.\nInvestigators arrested Reffitt and searched his home on a warrant Jan. 16. They recovered a pistol and an AR-15 rifle at the scene, documents say.\nMore than 125 people have been charged in connection with the riot, which played out on national television and across many social media platforms. Vast quantities of evidence have been compiled from the event, in part thanks to the rioters themselves, who broadcast their activities online.\nInternet sleuths have been actively helping the FBI identify suspects from the riot, and a running list of the arrests continues to grow each day.\nCharges from the riot range from curfew violations to serious federal felonies related to theft and weapons possession.\nThe rioters failed in their effort to overturn a democratic election result, and Joe Biden will be sworn in as the next president on Wednesday.\nStory continues below advertisement}}
{{article\nFormer Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Tommy John is receiving oxygen at a hospital near his Indio home after being diagnosed with the coronavirus in December, it was reported Wednesday.\nHowever, the 77-year-old John told The Daily Beast that he is experiencing no symptoms of the disease.\n"I'd leave (the hospital) right now if they'd let me walk out," John told the website.\nJohn was diagnosed with COVID-19 on Dec. 13, a day after returning home from a trip to Nashville, Tennessee, the report said.\nThe website quotes John's "longtime girlfriend," Cheryl Zeldin, as saying that during the trip John suddenly lost motor control, and could barely get out of a car on returning to a hotel. The next day, he needed help from several people getting off an airplane in California.\nRELATED: Riverside County tops 200,000 COVID-19 cases as infection total doubles in past month\nAdvertisement\nThe following day John was rushed to a hospital where he was diagnosed with COVID-19, the report said.\nSince then, John has been hospitalized twice more, when his oxygen saturation level dipped dangerously low, and in late December for extreme lethargy that prevented him from walking, Zeldin said.\nJohn, meanwhile, downplayed his symptoms to the website -- only acknowledging he was on oxygen when confronted with Zeldin's words, and saying, "These people here would put you on anything!"\nHe also accused the reporter of "making a mountain out of a molehill."\nJohn's eldest son, San Diego chiropractor Tommy John III, 43, has posted various items on Facebook that claim the coronavirus does not exist.\nIn one of them, on Dec. 30, the younger John said COVID-19 was "Not a pandemic. Never was. COVID-19 is an idea of a disease. There is no virus that causes it and all tests are meaningless for it. It doesn't mean they didn't do this for a reason. And that reason has nothing to do with our health. This is not a pandemic. Never was. It's much worse."\nRELATED: Stay up to date on all coronavirus-related information\nThe elder John, a left-hander, pitched for the Dodgers from 1972-78, posting a 20-7 record in 1977. He also pitched for the California Angels from 1982-85. He finished his 26-year major league career with a record of 288-231, and an earned-run average of 3.34.\nJohn is perhaps more famous for the surgery that bears his name than for his exploits on the mound. In 1974, he tore his ulnar collateral ligament pitching against the Montreal Expos. Dr. Frank Jobe, the Dodgers physician, performed an experimental ligament replacement surgery on John later that year, which eventually allowed him to continue his career. "Tommy John surgery" has since become a routine and frequently successful procedure for major league pitchers.\nGet your top stories delivered daily! Sign up for FOX 11’s Fast 5 newsletter. And, get breaking news alerts in the FOX 11 News app. Download for iOS or Android.}}
{{Stay up to date on COVID-19\nGet Breaking News\nSign up now to get our FREE breaking news coverage delivered right to your inbox.}}
{{By BASSEM MROUE\nBEIRUT (AP) — A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. At least 50 people were killed and 2,700 injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.\nHours later, ambulances still carried away the wounded as army helicopters helped battle fires raging at the port.\nThe sudden devastation overwhelmed a country already struggling with both the coronavirus pandemic and an economic crisis: Beirut hospitals quickly filled beyond capacity, pleading for blood supplies and generators to keep their lights on.\nThe cause of the blast, which sparked fires, overturned cars and blew out windows and doors, was not immediately known.\nAbbas Ibrahim, chief of Lebanese General Security, said it might have been caused by highly explosive material that was confiscated from a ship some time ago and stored at the port. Local television channel LBC said the material was sodium nitrate.\nWitnesses reported seeing a strange orange-colored cloud over the site after the explosion. Orange clouds of toxic nitrogen dioxide gas often accompany an explosion involving nitrates.\nAn Israeli government official said Israel “had nothing to do” with the blast. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter with the media. Israeli officials usually do not comment on “foreign reports.”\nThe blast was stunning even for a city that has seen civil war, suicide bombings and bombardment by Israel. It could be heard and felt as far away as Cyprus, more than 200 kilometers (180 miles) across the Mediterranean.\n“It was a real horror show. I haven’t seen anything like that since the days of the (civil) war,” said Marwan Ramadan, who was about 500 meters (yards) from the port and was knocked off his feet by the force of the explosion.\nHealth Minister Hassan Hamad said the preliminary toll was 25 dead and more than 2,500 wounded. Emergency teams streamed in from across Lebanon to help, and injured had to be taken to hospitals outside the capital.\nSome of those injured lay on the ground at the port, Associated Press staff at the scene said. A civil defense official said there were still bodies inside the port, many under debris.\nBeirut’s governor, Marwan Abboud, broke into tears as he toured the site, saying, “Beirut is a devastated city.”\nInitially, video taken by residents showed a fire raging at the port, sending up a giant column of smoke, illuminated by flashes of what appear to be fireworks. Local TV stations reported that a fireworks warehouse was involved.\nThe fire then appeared to catch at a nearby building, triggering a more massive explosion, sending up a mushroom cloud and a shock wave.\nCharbel Haj, who works at the port, said it started as small explosions like firecrackers. Then, he said, he was thrown off his feet by the huge blast. His clothes were torn.\nMiles from the port, building facades were shredded, balconies were knocked down and windows shattered. Streets were covered with glass and bricks and lined with wrecked cars. Motorcyclists picked their way through traffic, carrying the injured.\nOne woman covered in blood from the waist up walked down a trashed street while talking furiously on her phone. On another street, a woman with a bloodied face looked distraught, staggering through traffic with two friends at her side.\n“This country is cursed,” a young man passing by muttered.\nThe blast came at a time when Lebanon’s economy is facing collapse from the financial crisis and the coronavirus restrictions. Many have lost jobs, while the worth of their savings has evaporated as the currency has plunged in value against the dollar. The result has thrown many into poverty.\nIt also occurred amid rising tensions between Israel and the militant Hezbollah group along Lebanon’s southern border.\nThe explosion was reminiscent of massive blasts during Lebanon’s civil war and took place only three days before a U.N.-backed tribunal was set to give its verdict in the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in a truck bombing more than 15 years ago. That explosion, with a ton of explosives, was felt miles away, just like Tuesday’s explosion.\nSeveral of Beirut’s hospitals were damaged in the blast. Roum Hospital put out a call for people to bring it spare generators to keep its electricity going as it evacuated patients because of heavy damage.\nOutside the St. George University Hospital in Beirut’s Achrafieh neighborhood, people with various injuries arrived in ambulances, in cars and on foot. The explosion had caused major damage inside the building and knocked out the electricity at the hospital. Dozens of injured were being treated on the spot on the street outside, on stretchers and wheelchairs.\n“This is a catastrophe we have on our hands,” said one doctor, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to make press statements.\n___\nAssociated Press writer Sarah El Deeb in Beirut and Josef Federman in Jerusalem contributed.}}
{{*First Lady Melania Trump’s chief of staff Stephanie Grisham resigned from her position following the riots at the U.S. Capitol.\nGrisham, who previously served as White House communications director and press secretary, issued a statement on Wednesday to announce her resignation. It comes as Trump prepares to leave the White House in two weeks when his term ends.\n“It has been an honor to serve the country in the @WhiteHouse. I am very proud to have been a part of @FLOTUS @MELANIATRUMP mission to help children everywhere, & proud of the many accomplishments of this Administration,” Grisham said in a tweet.\nAccording to a Bloomberg report, three other White House officials handed in their resignations after an angry pro-Trump mob stormed the US Capitol in Washington, DC. Deputy National Security Adviser Matt Pottinger, White House Social Secretary Rickie Niceta and Deputy Press Secretary Sarah Matthews all called it quits amid the breach on the Capitol building.\nIn a statement, Matthews said she was “deeply disturbed by what I saw today.”\nREAD MORE: Omarosa Manigault Newman Claims Melania Trump is Often ‘Repulsed” by Her Husband\nIt has been an honor to serve the country in the @WhiteHouse . I am very proud to have been a part of @FLOTUS @MELANIATRUMP mission to help children everywhere, & proud of the many accomplishments of this Administration. Signing off now – you can find me at @OMGrisham ❤️🇺🇸 — Stephanie Grisham (@StephGrisham45) January 7, 2021\nWe reported earlier… four people are dead — including one woman who was shot — after supporters of Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol amid the ceremonial counting of the electoral votes to confirm President-elect Joe Biden’s victory.\nThe president had urged his supporters to fight against the event, and they responded to his call to action. An armed standoff with police officers took place at the House front door at about 3 p.m. ET. The angry mob also ripped an American flag off of a flagpole and replaced it with a Trump flag. The National Guard was called in the curb the chaos.\nLawmakers and business leaders have called for Trump to be immediately removed from office.\nJay Timmons, the CEO/president of the National Association of Manufacturers, released a statement Wednesday calling on Vice President Mike Pence to take action, writing:\nThis is not law and order. This is chaos. It is mob rule. It is dangerous. This is sedition and should be treated as such. The outgoing president incited violence in an attempt to retain power, and any elected leader defending him is violating their oath to the Constitution and rejecting democracy in favor of anarchy. Anyone indulging conspiracy theories to raise campaign dollars is complicit. Vice President Pence, who was evacuated from the Capitol, should seriously consider working with the Cabinet to invoke the 25th Amendment to preserve democracy.\nA number of world leaders have also issued statements addressing the stunning display of insurrection on Jan. 6.\nUK Prime Minister Boris Johnson called the events “disgraceful,” and urged a “peaceful and orderly transfer of power.”}}
{{Article content\nWinnipeg, nor the province, will have to endure a COVID-19 curfew, Premier Brian Pallister announced on Thursday.\nThe premier said nearly 20,000 people took part in a survey to gauge Manitoban’s interest in the idea, and while people supported it, now is not the time.\nWe apologize, but this video has failed to load.\ntap here to see other videos from our team. Try refreshing your browser, or Pallister takes COVID-19 curfew off the table, promises increased enforcement Back to video\n“We’re not going to proceed with a curfew at this time,” Pallister said at a news conference. “We’ve seen curfews elsewhere in other parts of the world. We’ve seen them combined with massive lockdowns of the economy. The World Health Organization and many other health experts have said there are real dangers in that approach as well.”\nPallister said in his discussions with chief provincial public health officer Dr. Brent Roussin and other health leaders, they feel it would be premature to invoke curfew at this time.\nPallister cited the fact that we’re only several days into Code Red in the Winnipeg metropolitan region, and Code Orange in the rest of the province and time needs to be given to allow the changes to work. And Pallister also admitted that enforcement efforts have been on the soft side so far.}}
{{A person from Saskatchewan's south zone who tested positive for COVID-19 has died. The person was in the 80 and over age category.\nTo date there have been a total of 55 COVID-related deaths in the province. There were 11 deaths from Nov. 28 to Friday.\nThe province reported 283 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday.\nOf the 9,527 total reported cases in Saskatchewan, 4,116 are considered active.\nThe Regina zone is the hot spot with 83 new cases.\nNine of the remaining new cases are located in the far north west, 11 are in the far north east, 12 are in the north west, 47 are in the north central, seven are in the north east, 50 are in the Saskatoon area, seven are in the central west, nine are in the central east, 12 are in the south west, nine are in the south central and nine are in the south east zones.\n(CBC News)\nEighteen of the new cases have pending locations.\nThe seven-day average of daily new cases is 262 — 21.7 new cases per 100,000 population. On Thursday, 3,504 COVID-19 tests were processed in Saskatchewan.\nA total of 5,356 people have recovered to date in the province, 183 of whom were reported recovered on Friday.\nThere are currently 126 people in hospital, 101 of whom are receiving in-patient care. There are seven in the north west, 12 in the north central, one in the north east, 36 in the Saskatoon zone, one in the central east, 20 in the Regina zone, three in the south west and 21 in the south east.\nThere are 25 people in intensive care in Saskatchewan: one in the north west, four in the north central, 11 in Saskatoon and nine in Regina.\nNew outbreaks\nThe province declared COVID-19 outbreaks at the following locations Thursday:\nSaskatoon:\nWestridge Child Care Centre.\nLorass Recyling.\nOdessa/Vibank (South Zone)}}
{{The Minister of Health has asked President Salva Kiir to impose a lockdown to allow health officials to ascertain the level of COVID-19 infections in Juba.\nIn March, the government imposed some restrictions such as the closure of borders, nonessential businesses, interstate travel, and limited public transport.\nHowever early this month, some of the lockdown restrictions including on trade and travels were lifted despite a surge in coronavirus cases.\nAs of 27 May, South Sudan had recorded 994 cases of the novel coronavirus disease with 6 recoveries and 10 deaths.\nTest results for the last three days have not been made public.\nOn Wednesday, a research group warned that Covid-19 cases in South Sudan will reach 3,000 in June if the current trend continues.\nThe Minister of Health, Elizabeth Achuei now says she has requested President Salva Kiir to impose a lockdown of between two to three weeks to enable health authorities to contain the spread.\n“We are really controlling, we are doing the tests to know exactly how many people have been infected, and that is why I requested the lockdown,” Achuei told the press after meeting President Kiir at his Juba residence on Saturday.\n“I want to screen Juba so that we could know the cases that have affected Juba. The lockdown I’m asking for is for 2 to 3 weeks.”\nThe health minister claims that the situation is “not as bad as people hear,” but she appealed to the general public to observe preventive measures put in place by the Ministry of Health.\nTotal Page Visits: 17 - Today Page Visits: 17}}
{{EMBED >More News Videos Getting an appointment for a COVID vaccine has proven to be a difficult task at times. 7 On Your Side has some dos and don'ts to try to make the process easier.\nWhile a few have already hit the market, there are still dozens of coronavirus vaccines in development around the globe.Some use tried-and-true technologies, other use novel approaches. The shots were all tested differently, and some were allowed to go into use even before they were rigorously tested. How well they work varies, with preliminary study results ranging from 50% effective to over 90%.So far, regulators in different countries have allowed use of about a half dozen, mostly under emergency use provisions. A few more are getting close. The ones available now all require two doses, given weeks apart.Among those furthest along:: Developed with BioNTech; authorized by the U.S., U.K, European Union, the World Health Organization and elsewhere.: Developed with the U.S. National Institutes of Health; authorized by the U.S., U.K., European Union, the World Health Organization and elsewhere.: Developed with Oxford University; authorized by more than 40 countries, including Britain, India, Argentina, Mexico and the European Union.: Developed by Russia's Gamaleya Research Institute; authorized in Russia and about 10 other countries.: Authorized in China and several countries including Hungary, Serbia, and Morocco.: Authorized in China as well as Turkey, Brazil and Indonesia.: Authorized in India.: In development; one dose; expected to seek U.S. Food and Drug Administration authorization soon.: In development.}}
{{"As soon as people lockdown and follow the rules, the better we're going to be able to cope in two weeks' time."}}
{{Following is a summary of current health news briefs.\nFrance tells its citizens: Fabric masks not enough to protect from COVID\nThe French government is now recommending that people wear surgical masks in public because they offer better protection from COVID-19 transmission than fabric face coverings, Health Minister Olivier Veran said on Thursday. France already requires masks to be worn in public places, but until now has not made recommendations about the type of masks. French authorities are worried they could be hit by new, more contagious variants of the virus.\nCanadian health officials take different tack to vaccinate wary care home workers\nHealth officials in the Canadian province of Ontario thought large, central clinics would be the most efficient way to get staff at long-term care homes vaccinated quickly, protecting elderly residents most at risk of severe COVID-19 and death. As it became clear that some staff could or would not travel to hospitals in large cities like Toronto, wary of the healthcare system or of the vaccines, officials have turned to new strategies, like bringing the shots directly to care homes. There, vaccine teams can speak informally with staff to address their concerns.\nUK COVID death toll reaches 94,580, hits daily vaccination record\nThe death toll from COVID-19 in the United Kingdom hit 94,580 on Thursday after the country recorded another 1,290 fatalities, while official data showed medics had delivered a new high of 363,508 vaccines in the last 24 hours. Britain has been hit hard by the latest wave of the pandemic, with daily fatalities routinely over 1,000. It recorded on Wednesday a new daily high of 1,820 deaths of people who had tested positive for the disease within 28 days.\nExclusive: Pfizer-BioNTech agree to supply WHO co-led COVID-19 vaccine scheme - sources\nPfizer and BioNTech have agreed to supply their COVID-19 vaccine to the World Health Organization co-led COVAX vaccine access scheme, two sources familiar with the deal said, the latest in a series of shots to be included in the project aimed at lower-income countries. The deal is expected to be announced on Friday, according to the sources, who declined to be named due to the confidentiality of the agreement.\nIrish COVID-19 death rate at pandemic high\nIreland's COVID-19 death rate is at its highest level since the start of the pandemic with an average of 44 deaths per day in the past week, a senior health official said on Thursday. "The number of deaths confirmed per day over the last seven days, 44, is the highest we have seen at any point during the pandemic," Philip Nolan, head of the government's COVID-19 modelling unit, told a news conference.\nPfizer cuts vaccine deliveries by as much as half to some EU countries Pfizer has slashed in half the volume of COVID-19 vaccines it will deliver to some EU countries this week, government officials said on Thursday, as frustration over the U.S. drugmaker's unexpected cut in supplies grows. Romania got only 50% of its planned volume for this week, the other half being allocated gradually by the end of March, with deliveries returning to normal starting next week, Deputy Health Minister Andrei Baciu told Reuters.\nExclusive: India to begin commercial vaccine exports with shipments to Brazil, Morocco India's government has cleared commercial exports of COVID-19 vaccines, with the first consignments to be shipped to Brazil and Morocco on Friday, the Indian foreign secretary told Reuters. The shots developed by UK-based drugmaker AstraZeneca and Oxford University are being manufactured at the Serum Institute of India, the world's biggest producer of vaccines, which has received orders from countries across the world.\nEU leaders weigh travel curbs over virus variant fears European Union leaders were seeking on Thursday to address the coronavirus pandemic's mounting challenges, including increased calls to limit travel and tighten border controls to contain more infectious variants of the disease. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said before an evening leaders' video conference that European countries needed to take the new mutation found in Britain seriously to avoid a third wave.\nBiden will order masks on planes and trains, increase disaster funds to fight coronavirus President Joe Biden will sign 10 executive orders on Thursday to fight the coronavirus pandemic, including directing that disaster funds be used to help reopen schools and requiring that people wear masks on planes and buses, officials said. Biden, a Democrat who took over from Republican President Donald Trump on Wednesday, has promised a fierce fight against the pandemic that killed 400,000 people in the United States under Trump's watch.\nU.S., staying in WHO, to join COVID vaccine push for poor nations: Fauci The United States under President Joe Biden intends to join the COVAX vaccine facility that aims to deliver coronavirus vaccines to poor countries, his chief medical adviser, Anthony Fauci, told the World Health Organization (WHO) on Thursday. Fauci, speaking to the WHO executive board, confirmed that the United States would remain a member of the U.N. agency and said it would work multilaterally on issues from the COVID-19 pandemic to HIV/AIDS.\n(With inputs from agencies.)}}
{{The government and regional governors have been at loggerheads over the fate of citizens from Lombardy, Italy’s richest and most populous region located around Milan and the epicenter of one of Europe’s worst virus outbreaks. (Reuters file photo)\nItaly’s health minister confirmed the country can go ahead with the plan to start allowing travel across the nation next week, even as some local governors oppose letting people from the hard-hit Lombardy region move freely.\nData on the spread of the virus is improving and allows for the reopening among regions, Health Minister Roberto Speranza said in a statement. The announcement came after a late night meeting with Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte and various coalition party representatives and ministers.\nThe government and regional governors have been at loggerheads over the fate of citizens from Lombardy, Italy’s richest and most populous region located around Milan and the epicenter of one of Europe’s worst virus outbreaks. Some regional authorities, including the governor of the Naples region, Campania, have threatened to close their borders to people coming from Lombardy once free travel within Italy restarts.\n“The trend is good almost in all the regions, which shows that the effects of the lockdown were extremely positive,” Giovanni Rezza, head of prevention at the health ministry, said in video comments about virus monitoring data on Friday.\nThough new virus cases continue to decline, Lombardy still has the highest ratio of new cases per 100,000 people, according to data published by the health ministry on the May 18-24 period, after lockdown measures were eased further. A total of 33,340 fatalities have been reported in Italy since the start of the pandemic in February, most of them in northern Italy and 16,079 of them in Lombardy, according to the latest data released Saturday. There were 416 new virus cases, down from 516 on Friday.\nMeanwhile the governor of Lombardy, Attilio Fontana, said last week he’d been given a police escort after growing criticism of his handling of the virus crisis.}}
{{After a harrowing few weeks hooked up to a ventilator in the ICU, Jeremih is back home.\nThe singer revealed the good news in a statement to TMZ on Saturday morning.\n“First and foremost, I would like to thank God and the incredible team of doctors and nurses at Northwestern Memorial Hospital for saving my life. I will be forever grateful. I would also like to thank my family and friends for all their prayers and well wishes. I’m overwhelmed with gratitude,” he said. “A special thanks to Chance The Rapper, 50 Cent and Diddy for their love and support.”\nThe 33-year-old’s friends and colleagues broke the news when he was first admitted to the hospital with COVID-19, asking fans to send prayers and well wishes as Jeremih fought for his life.\n“I would like to thank all my fans and people around the world who prayed for me. I’m getting stronger everyday, and look forward to spending time with my sons,” he added.\nHis family issued a statement last month to CNN, noting Jeremih’s condition “is rare for a young man his age without underlying conditions.”\n“His family would like to remind the world that COVID-19 is real and not to be taken lightly,” the statement read. “Also, It’s important for people infected to quarantine and let their families and friends know ASAP. There’s no shame in contracting COVID-19, and people that have it need to be responsible and considerate of others.”}}
{{Jan 6 (Reuters) - U.S. CDC:\n* U.S. CDC SAYS 511,635 DOSES OF COVID-19 VACCINE ADMINISTERED IN LONG-TERM CARE HOMES AS OF JAN 6 VERSUS 429,066 DOSES ADMINISTERED AS OF JAN 5\n* U.S. CDC SAYS 3,416,875 DOSES OF COVID-19 VACCINE DISTRIBUTED IN LONG-TERM CARE HOMES AS OF JAN 6 VERSUS 3,260,775 DOSES DISTRIBUTED AS OF JAN 5 Source text : [bit.ly/3nfuJYw]}}
{{ALBANY, N.Y. (WROC) — Gov. Andrew Cuomo held a coronavirus briefing Wednesday, which marked day No. 312 of the pandemic in New York state.\nThe governor provided the following data:\n197,816 COVID-19 tests reported Tuesday statewide\n8.31% positivity rate overall statewide\n9.14% positivity rate in micro-cluster hotspots\n8.13% positivity rate outside micro-cluster hotspots\n161 New Yorkers died from COVID-19 Tuesday\n8,665 hospitalized with the virus statewide\n1,408 in ICU\n877 intubated\n“We’re seeing the continued increase from the celebration of the holidays — it’s the holiday COVID hangover,” Gov. Cuomo said. “If you don’t celebrate smart, you get a hangover.”\nThe governor again reiterated the sentiment that the Finger Lakes region remains the most problematic in regards to positivity rate and hospitalization rate per regional population, saying it’s a result of behavior.\n“Why is the Southern Tier at 5% and Finger Lakes nearby is at 10%” Gov. Cuomo said. “It is a function of personal responsibility, there’s a basic truth to this. Its not about government, it’s personal responsibility.”\nThe governor said that the strain, originally found in the United Kingdom and discovered this week in Saratoga County, adds an extra layer of complication in regards to slowing the spread.\n“You add to that the U.K. strain and it’s a dramatically different proposition,” Gov. Cuomo said. “Once you say the infection rate can go up — double, or triple, or quadruple — then it’s no longer a race then we lose the race bc the vax supply is the limited. If you dramatically increase the infection rate, the next step would be overwhelming the hospitals and that’s the very real fear we are dealing with now. So three priorities: Slow the spread, increase the vaccine distribution rate, and stop viral mutations.”\nThe governor said that health care workers are in the first tier of vaccination population to reduce the risk of overwhelming hospital systems.\n“It’s about protecting the hospital capacity and the hospital staff,” Gov. Cuomo said. “If the hospital staff get sick, then you hurt the hospital capacity. Many hospitals are now complaining that they have the beds, but they don’t have the staff. Why don’t they have the staff? Because the staff is stretched, the nurses are stretched because the capacity is so high and because they’re getting sick from COVID.”\nThe governor said that since Monday, hospital systems statewide have improved the rate of vaccinations dramatically.\n“The daily rate over vaccination over the past three weeks was about 10,809 hospital staff per day,” Gov. Cuomo said. “Since Monday they’ve been doing 31,157 per day so the vaccination rate has tripled since Monday.”\nThe governor reiterated the state’s vaccine distribution plan per population for the early phases:\nPhase 1a: Health care workers, nursing home residents and staff\nPhase 1b: Essential workers and New Yorkers over the age of 75 Education workers, first responders (police and firefighters), public safety workers, and public transit workers\nIn his briefing on Tuesday, the governor said the federal government needs to increase the COVID-19 vaccine supply — a sentiment he echoed Wednesday.\n“Supply is still going to be the issue,” Gov. Cuomo said. “We have received about 950,000 doses so far and we have 2.1 million health care workers in New York, so we haven’t even received half the number of dosages yet.”\nThe governor did say he was optimistic about increased production of the vaccine and supply from the federal government.\n“The federal government will be increasing production,” Gov. Cuomo said. “They say they will and I believe they will, frankly the private market is increasing production. Pfizer, Moderna, Johnson and Johnson, Oxford-Astrazeneca — so there are other vacciens that are coming online and the supply will go up.”\nThe governor said experts project March and April as a potential timeline for large-scale general population distribution of the vaccine.\nMeanwhile, the governor said the federal government needs to act more aggressively in preventing the U.K. strain from traveling to the United States.\n“I’m asking today Customs and Border Patrol to either require in New York airports that the person shows they were tested before admission, or allow the port authority staff to request of people coming through customs whether or not they were tested,” Gov. Cuomo said. “But we don’t want tens of thousands of people coming through our airport everyday, from countries around the world who were not tested. It’s just that simple and it makes total and common sense.”\nThe governor said results for the senate runoff race in Georgia was a victory for New York. He said Washington abused New York for the past four years.\n“They have been political about it and its been really devastating to the state and I want to congratulate the incoming majority senate leader [Sen. Chuck Schumer],” Gov. Cuomo said. “This was a very, very big win for the Democratic senate and it bodes well for the state of New York . Washington has abused the state of New York for many, many years. They have been unethical, they have been political, they have taken money out of this state and sent it to Republican states. They’ve used New York as a political piñata to appeal to Republicans throughout the country, they enhanced the division in this country by using New York as an example.”\nThe governor said Wednesday marked the end of Washington theft from New York and the beginning of compensation.\n“New Yorkers have been criminal victims, as far as I’m concerned, by the theft of the federal government and our message to Washington will be very clear: We want a return on our property that was stolen,” Gov. Cuomo said. “We’ve had the lowest Medicaid reimbursement in the U.S. because they don’t believe in providing healthcare coverage for low income people and we do so they penalized us through Medicaid.\n“It cost New Yorkers $30 billion over the past three years — pure cash, $30 billion,” Gov. Cuomo said. We now have a $15 billion deficient, and they took $30 billion. At a minimum we have to get $15 billion this year to cover our deficit. It just shows you how difficult closing the 15 billion was going to be. That was going to be the State of the State. Now it’s going to be much different, it’s a different senate. The senate knowns darn well what they did to us over the years and they did it.”\nThe governor said the new senate majority will force him to re-write the State of the State, his annual address to New Yorkers, and he said the rewriting effort will alter upcoming weekend plans in Western New York.\n“Good news is, it [Democratic senate] is a very good development for the state of New York,” Gov. Cuomo said. “Bad news is I have to rewrite the state of the state, and the really bad news is I’m not going to be able to get to the Bills game this weekend. We started the drive through testing this morning. This is a model for us to see what we can do to reopen venues.”\nThe governor said the state is examining two methods for raising revenue in the state, including legalized sports betting and recreational marijuana.\n“We want to do sports betting the way the state runs the lottery, where the state gets the revenue,” Gov. Cuomo said. “I’m not here to make casinos a lot of money I’m here to raise money for the state.\n“For recreational marijuana, I think this should have been passed years ago,” Gov. Cuomo said. “I think this should have been passed years ago, I think too many people have been imprisoned and incarcerated and punished — and too many of those people are Black, Latino and poor. I’ve supported it for years and I’ve tried to pass it, but this is the year we need the funding and a lot of New Yorkers are struggling and I think this is the year to give us the momentum to get it over the goal line.”\nCheck back with News 8 WROC as we continue to update this developing story.}}
{{New Delhi: Be it before the lockdown or after, the misuse of alarm chains in trains continues in Delhi-NCR. Recent data from the Railway Protection Force (RPF) of the Delhi division revealed that over 400 cases of chain pulling were reported this year from various railway stations.\nAs per data, from January to March this year, about 307 cases were reported in which 270 people were caught. After the resumption of normal trains from June 1, over 100 such cases were reported in which more than 100 people were nabbed till October.\n"After the resumption of train services amid the COVID-19 scenario, the railways have asked passengers to reach the station at least 90 minutes before departure but still some passengers are not able to reach the stations on time and then resort to chain-pulling for trivial issues," an RPF official said.\nThe data further shows that 1,625 cases were registered last year and approximately 1,500 people were arrested whereas about 1,769 cases were reported in 2018 where 1,635 people were found misusing the alarm chain. The RPF has also identified blackspots where chain-pulling was reported frequently. The blackspots are New Delhi, Ghaziabad, Gurugram, Rohtak and Faridabad, an RPF official said, adding that they have increased the security over there.\nAnother RPF official stated that the chain can only be pulled by passengers for any kind of emergency but misusing it for irrelevant issues lead to delays of other passenger trains and loss to the railways. "Relatives or friends getting late in reaching or to de-board or board at stations, these are not the reasons any passenger can pull the chain," the official said.\nThis menace falls under section 141 of the Railways Act (Needlessly interfering with means of communication in a train). "Those found misusing the alarm chain faces imprisonment for a term which may extend up to one year or with fine which may extend up to Rs 1,000, or with both," an official said.\nSecurity Commissioner (East) Harish Papola said they have identified trains from which this menace is frequently reported and they are taking action against people who are involved in illegal activities. "We are also creating awareness among people by telling them chain-pulling adversely affects all the passengers in the train and also it affects the operations of other trains," he said.}}
{{Of the 481,550 vaccines supplied to Virginia, 116,247 — or about 25 percent — were reported to have been administered as of Tuesday morning, according to the state health department.\nAD\nOfficials say a new online data system has slowed the reporting process and that more vaccines have actually been administered. But that didn’t stop Northam from imposing a “use it or lose it” policy to punish providers giving out vaccine slowly.\nAD\n“This needs to move much faster, we know that,” Northam spokeswoman Alena Yarmosky said shortly before the governor held a news conference to outline his plans.\nIn Maryland, Prince George’s County Executive Angela D. Alsobrooks (D) pushed back Wednesday against Hogan’s threats to withhold vaccine from poorly performing hospitals, saying that taking away “lifesaving vaccine from anyone who needs it is absolutely ridiculous … It’s unconscionable.”\nAD\n“We need some help here. No criticism. Send some help,” Alsobrooks said.\nState data show Prince George’s has given out just 4.3 percent of its allocation, the third-lowest rate in the state. Alsobrooks said the county is grappling with the highest infection rate in the state and the region, long-standing inequities in care, and a history of distrust of the medical establishment.\nAD\nWhile she has already been vaccinated, she said her mother and cousin plan to wait two to three years before following suit — illustrating the level of distrust within the Black community.\nVirginia, Maryland and D.C. each reported record-high coronavirus hospitalizations on Wednesday — 265 in the District, 1,862 in Maryland and 2,925 in Virginia.\nAD\nVirginia reported 5,387 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, a single-day high for the state, and 35 deaths. Maryland reported 3,146 new cases and 50 deaths, and the District reported 316 new cases and five deaths.\nIn Virginia, Northam hopes to sharply ramp up the number of vaccines administered per day so the state can move to the next phase of prioritized recipients by the end of January — a group that would include teachers, day care providers and residents 75 and older, his office said.\nEven at current reported levels, Yarmosky said, Virginia has administered a greater number of vaccines than more than three dozen other states, according to federal data.\nAD\nAD\nBut Republicans have criticized Northam’s administration for a slow rollout. Del. Kirk Cox (R-Colonial Heights), who is seeking the GOP nomination for governor, blasted Northam on Tuesday for “fumbling” the vaccination program.\nThe plans Northam outlined on Tuesday were aimed at steadily increasing the number of vaccines delivered each day. With the state receiving about 100,000 doses per week, Yarmosky said, the first goal is to reach 14,000 vaccinations per day, up from a combined total of 12,000 inoculations on Monday and Tuesday.\nIf the supply increases in the next few weeks, Yarmosky said, the state hopes to hit 25,000 vaccines per day. “Ultimately we know that if you’re looking at reaching the majority of the population, we need to hit at least 50,000 per day,” she said. “That’s not going to happen over night,” she said.\nAD\nAD\nReporting should get better in the next few days as kinks are ironed out of the state’s data system, she said. To improve coordination among regional health directors, Northam has tapped Danny Avula — state health director for the city of Richmond and Henrico County — to run the statewide vaccine delivery program.\nThat will include stepped-up monitoring of how efficiently each provider is using its doses. If some locations are not making full use of their allotment, the vaccines will be shifted where they are needed, Yarmosky said.\nNortham has also activated the Virginia National Guard to help with transporting vaccines and the logistics of setting up vaccination sites. The Guard has also,assisted with testing and distributing personal protective gear for health care workers in the state.}}
{{FILE PHOTO: A man walks past a sign encouraging people to wear face coverings amid the COVID-19 outbreak in Belfast, Northern Ireland January 2, 2021. REUTERS/Phil Noble\nDUBLIN (Reuters) - Ireland reported 93 fatalities from COVID-19 on Tuesday, the highest number of deaths confirmed in a single day since the start of pandemic, exceeding a peak of 77 during the first wave last year.\nThe daily death toll published by the National Public Health Emergency Team can include fatalities that took place weeks ago but were just confirmed to authorities on the day in question.\nThe high death rate follows a sharp increase in infections in the first 10 days of the year following a relaxation of public-health measures over the Christmas season.\nThe infection rate has since fallen sharply with the 2,001 cases reported on Tuesday bringing the five-day average down to 2,758 from 5,596 on the same day the previous week.\nThree of the deaths reported on Tuesday took place in January, it said.}}
{{ALABAMA (WRBL) – As of 3:00/2:00 p.m. CDT, the Alabama Department of Public Health’s COVID-19 Dashboard reports 340,887 confirmed cases of coronavirus statewide, with 5,211 confirmed to have died from the virus.\nAlabama now also reports the number of probable cases of COVID-19 and of probable deaths caused by the virus, with 88,768 probable cases of COVID-19 across the state and 1,072 probable deaths. The ADPH says there have been 48,344 COVID-19 cases reported over the last 14 days.\nThe Alabama COVID-19 case numbers have increased since our last update, when the ADPH reported 338,983 confirmed cases of the coronavirus on Jan. 19. Since the last report, 1,904 new cases have been confirmed as reported by the ADPH, since Jan. 19.\nSo far, Alabama health officials say that 184,618 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered, as of Jan. 20.\nThe current number of Alabamians who have been hospitalized for treatment of coronavirus, to date, is 39,807. The total number of reported hospitalizations in the state will be updated Monday through Friday at 3 p.m., according to the ADPH.\nAs of Sept. 1, 2020, the Alabama Department of Public Health is reporting antibody testing for COVID-19. On Jan. 20, the ADPH reports 98,329 cases have been tested with the antibody test.\nToday, Jan. 20, the ADPH reports there are 7,275 reported cases in Lee County. Currently, there are 1,507 cases confirmed in Chambers County, 2,692 in Russell County, and 995 in Barbour County.\nAs of our last update, Jan. 19, there were 7,206 residents who have tested positive for the virus in Lee County, with 1,496 in Chambers County, 2,670 cases in Russell County, and 991 positive cases in Barbour County.\nThe live tracker managed by the state showing COVID-19 data is currently updating once a day at 10 a.m.\nThe state is reporting 221,961 presumed recoveries on the ADPH tracking site. The presumed recovery numbers will be updated by the ADPH weekly.}}
{{The Snaw-Naw-As First Nation’s Tim Hortons store reported on Jan. 6, 2021, that a staff member tested positive for COVID-19. (Snaw-Naw-As Photo)\nA busy mid-Island highway fast food outlet temporarily closed its doors due to a case of COVID-19.\nThe Snaw-Naw-As First Nation closed its Tim Hortons store on Wednesday (Jan. 6) after reporting a staff member tested positive for the virus.\nContact tracing has been initiated and the store, located at the First Nation’s gas station in Lantzville, was disinfected.\nWorkers at the gas station and market were not in direct contact with the Tim Hortons employee, who is not a Snaw-naw-as member or resident.\n“We recognize the seriousness of the situation and are taking immediate measures in consultation with the provincial health authorities including the First Nation Health Authority, our Community Health Nurse and established protocols,” said Chief Gordon Edwards, in a statement.\nREAD MORE: Island Health’s daily COVID-19 case count reaches record high\nThe gas station remained open and the market was sanitized later in the evening, including the use of a fogger and bleach.\nA decision was also made by the Snaw-Naw-As leadership and staff to close its daycare as a precautionary measure for 48 hours. It will be re-evaluated again on Monday, Jan. 11.\n“We continue to keep the the community informed regarding COVID-19 developments including steps towards bringing the COVID vaccine to the Snaw-Naw-As community,” said Edwards.\n— will be updated\nMichael.Briones@pqbnews.com\nLike us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter\nCoronavirusIsland Health}}
{{The Learning Curve special report covers education topics that matter to teachers, parents, students, and school officials in an hour-long show on Sunday.\nSAN DIEGO — Education has been impacted tremendously because of the ongoing pandemic.\nFor months, we've been doing stories on things like the challenges of distance learning, plans to reopen schools, and how these changes have impacted our health.\nThe Learning Curve special brings you those stories and more as we dig deeper into this very important issue.\nFrom teachers to students, and education officials, our Learning Curve special, is dedicated to all things education, and the impact of the coronavirus pandemic.\nThe special will take viewers inside a COVID-era classroom.\nWe'll also look at virtual learning, what's working and what's not.\nOther topics include doctors' thoughts on reopening schools, how some parents are hiring their own teachers, what student-athletes are saying, and the impact this has all had on our mental health.}}
{{‘Two British hospitals have become one of the first in the world to use Blockchain technology, used in cryptocurrencies, to monitor the storage of vaccines.’\nRead More..\nSource: Medindia Source: Medindia\nBlockchain technology (digital ledgers) is being used by two hospitals in the UK to monitor and track the supply and storage of COVID-19 vaccines. The Dallas based Hedera Hashgraph system is being used to track if the COVID-19 vaccines are being stored at the appropriate temperatures.This technology is like a digital ledger maintained across a network and allows the secure and real-time recording of data. Many tech companies like IBM have proposed the use of this technology as it will be easier to share data on the vaccine across organizations at the same time making sure it is secure. Normally, different record-keeping systems like storing the data in a central location were used.Vaccines from Pfizer Inc and BioNTech have to be stored at ultra-cold temperatures and will only last five days at fridge temperature. In contrast, Moderna Inc's vaccine is easier to deliver as it does not require cold storage.Everyware, the company overseeing this project, has worked with the hospitals in the past to track the handling of other medical supplies that have specific storing instructions with the help of internet sensors. This helped the hospital prevent unnecessary wastage and discarding of medicines, says Tom Screen, the technical director of Everyware.he continues.Cryptocurrencies also use a similar type of technology, but Hedera uses a mathematical system called Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG), which is different from the ones used in Bitcoin and Ethereum.Since the simple monitoring of the vaccines does not require solving complex mathematical equations as in cryptocurrency, Hedera can quickly process transactions and offers a low cost for every piece of information added to the ledger. Comparatively, cryptocurrency-based blocked chains can hardly process one or two transactions per second and are also more expensive.Screen also adds that while monitoring the vaccines is possible without blockchain, manually doing so will only increase the risk for mistakes and logistical hurdles.}}
{{"Fixer Upper" fans have something to look forward to next year.\nThe hit HGTV series starring husband and wife duo Chip and Joanna Gaines is being revived on the couple's new Magnolia Network.}}
{{WASHINGTON (Reuters) - From the Lincoln Memorial to the Empire State building, landmarks across the United States will be illuminated on Tuesday evening as part of a ceremony led by President-elect Joe Biden to honor the nearly 400,000 Americans who have died from COVID-19.\nSlideshow ( 2 images )\nThe commemoration, spearheaded by Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris hours before they take the helm of a country in crisis, represents the federal government’s first nod to the staggering death toll from the pandemic.\nBiden and Harris will lead a lighting ceremony at the Reflecting Pool at the Lincoln Memorial at 5:15 p.m. ET (2215 GMT), followed by a moment of silence and 400 bell tolls at the National Cathedral to symbolically honor the COVID-19 dead.\n“Hundreds of towns, cities, tribes, landmarks, and communities all across the country have committed to joining the tribute in a national moment of unity,” Biden’s inaugural committee said in a statement.\nThe United States was on track to reach two grim COVID-19 milestones on Tuesday - 24 million infections and 400,000 lives lost, according to a Reuters tally. The country has recorded more than 200,000 new cases and 3,220 deaths on average over the last seven days. (Graphic: tmsnrt.rs/34pvUyi)\nAmong the other landmarks participating in the lighting ceremony were the Empire State building in New York City and the Space Needle in Seattle, according to the statement. The inaugural committee said it was encouraging Americans to light candles in their windows and churches to ring their bells in a show of unity.\nNEW CHAPTER IN PANDEMIC RESPONSE\nThe ceremony marks the beginning of a new era in the country’s battle against COVID-19 under Biden, who has pledged to make coronavirus relief a top priority when he takes office on Wednesday under unprecedented security measures in the nation’s capital.\nBiden will inherit a grieving and sickened nation from President Donald Trump, who critics say was to blame for a disjointed and ineffectual response to the pandemic, resulting in the United States having the highest COVID-19 death toll in the world.\nOn Tuesday, his last full day as president, Trump had no public events scheduled, although U.S. Vice President Mike Pence was planning to convene the White House Coronavirus Task Force for its last meeting under his watch.\nMany of Biden’s policy plans fly in the face of the Trump administration’s approach to combating the pandemic. They include a mask mandate that would apply to federal properties, planes and buses and a recommitment to the World Health Organization after Trump’s withdrawal from the agency.\nBiden will also face the daunting task of overseeing the nation’s COVID-19 vaccine distribution and administration. The United States is trailing in its vaccination goal, with only 12.3 million shots administered out of more than 31 million distributed as of Jan. 15, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.\nStates, tasked with rolling out their own vaccine programs, have lamented a lack of funding and support from the federal government. Some localities say they do not have adequate supply to meet demand.\nMayor Bill de Blasio on Tuesday warned New York City will run out of vaccine doses as soon as Thursday and will be forced to cancel many appointments if it does not get resupplied quickly.\n“We will have literally nothing left to give as of Friday,” de Blasio told a news conference.\nBiden has said he will seek a $1.9 trillion spending proposal that includes funding for accelerating the distribution of coronavirus vaccines, and Democrats, who now hold a slight majority in Congress, hope to prioritize state and local aid in the next stimulus deal.}}
{{Federal prosecutors on Tuesday filed the first conspiracy charge to arise from the deadly insurrection at the U.S. Capitol, alleging an apparent member of the far-right Oath Keepers movement plotted to disrupt the election.\nThomas Edward Caldwell, 65, of Virginia, faces conspiracy to commit an offense, obstruction of official proceedings, entering a restricted building, and violent entry or disorderly conduct.\nThe conspiracy charge raises the stakes from the relatively minor unlawful entry and disorder conduct prosecutors have lodged against accused Capitol rioters.\nProsecutors say Mr. Caldwell was involved in “planning and coordinating” the breach of the Capitol by a pro-Trump mob, which resulted in five deaths, including a police officer.\nAs the government tells it, Mr. Caldwell organized a group of eight to 10 rioters with paramilitary equipment who moved in “an organized and practiced fashion,” during the riot.\nThose individuals were seen on video wearing military gear and Oath Keeper paraphernalia.\nAccording to the FBI affidavit filed in federal court, Mr. Caldwell also boasted of his role in the assault, posing a Facebook message on Jan. 6 saying, “I’m such an instigator!”\nInvestigators said in court documents that Mr. Caldwell “appears to have a leadership role” with the Oath Keepers, a far-right, loosely organized militia. Oath Keepers believe the federal government has been overtaken by a shadow conspiracy.\nThe FBI said they concluded Mr. Caldwell was an Oath Keeper based on his communications with “other known and unknown Oath Keepers members.”\nThose communications include a Facebook message telling one alleged member, U.S. Army veteran Jessica Watkins of Ohio, that they secured hotels at a “good location” that “would allow us to hunt at night if we wanted to,” court documents revealed.\nThe message continued with a reference to Oath Keepers founder Stewart Rhodes, the FBI wrote in the affidavit.\n“I don’t know if Stewie has even gotten out his call to arms, but it’s a little friggin late,” Mr. Caldwell allegedly wrote. “This is one we are doing on our own.”\nSign up for Daily Newsletters Manage Newsletters\nCopyright © 2021 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.}}
{{Send this page to someone via email\nFor the second time in less than a month, a Penticton long-term care home is dealing with a COVID-19 outbreak after two people tested positive for the virus, including one resident.\nInterior Health said on Saturday that a member of the staff at Village by the Station in Penticton has also tested positive.\nThe health authority said all close contacts are in self-isolation and “additional infection control and preventative measures” are being put in place.\nThe current outbreak is not impacting the assisted living and independent living areas of Village by the Station, Interior Health said.\nStory continues below advertisement\nThe current outbreak was announced Saturday, less than two weeks after a previous outbreak at the facility was declared over on Nov. 26.\nThe previous outbreak was announced on Nov. 15 and was declared over 11 days later.\n[ Sign up for our Health IQ newsletter for the latest coronavirus updates ]\nWhen it announced the earlier outbreak was over, the health authority said only one case was linked to the outbreak: the staff member who originally tested positive.\nFirst Interior Health long-term care death\nThe Interior Health region also recorded its first COVID-19 death of a long-term care resident this week.\nThe resident of Mountainview Village in Kelowna died on Thursday.\nStory continues below advertisement\nThe man in his 80s was also the first long-term care resident in the health region to test positive for COVID-19, the health authority said.\n1:49 Long-term care home resident in Kelowna dies from COVID-19 Long-term care home resident in Kelowna dies from COVID-19\nWhen she announced the fatality on Thursday, the health authority’s president urged people to follow COVID-19 guidance to protect those living in long-term care.\n“We all have a role to play to stop the spread in our communities, and I’m asking everyone to stick close to home right now and keep to your household,” IH president Susan Brown said in a statement to media.\n“Limiting spread in our communities will help keep COVID-19 out of our long-term care facilities and help protect our most vulnerable.”\nStory continues below advertisement\nThe Good Samaritan Society, which operates both Village by the Station in Penticton and Mountainview Village in Kelowna, said as of Saturday night, there are no active COVID-19 cases among residents at Mountainview Village but that three employees have active cases of the illness.\n— With files from Darrian Matassa-Fung}}
{{On April 9, 2020, French President Emmanuel Macron visited French infectious disease specialist and scientist Didier Raoult. The reason for the visit was to get an update on questions of treatment — in particular, hydroxychloroquine, the drug that Prof. Raoult was touting as a cure for COVID-19.\nBuilding on a much smaller prior study, Raoult apparently informed the president, behind closed doors, of his latest work in which he found virological cure in over 90 per cent of patients treated with hydroxychloroquine in combination with another drug, azithromycin.\nThe professor’s report concluded “The HCQ-AZ (hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin) combination, when started immediately after diagnosis, is a safe and efficient treatment for COVID-19.”\nMacron, impressed, dubbed Raoult “a great scientist.” Not to be outdone, then U.S. president Donald Trump had, on March 21, anticipated Macron’s enthusiasm with a tweet that Raoult’s work represented “one of the biggest game-changers in the history of medicine.”\nRaoult was far from alone in advocating for hydroxychloroquine on the basis of laboratory and preliminary clinical studies including one from the Henry Ford Health System that reported hydroxychloroquine cut death rates from 26.4 per cent to 13 per cent.\nThe result was that on April 24 the agency issued an emergency use authorization for the drug. The Indian Medical Research Council recommended the drug for prevention in those who have not contracted the virus. Brazil accepted two million doses of the drug from the U.S.\nClinicians worldwide prescribed the drug often enough that patients with rheumatic disease such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus — in whom the drug actually works — across Africa, Southeast Asia, the Americas and Europe had trouble filling their prescriptions of hydroxychloroquine.\nThen came the results of randomized trials — studies in which patients received, or did not receive, hydroxychloroquine according to a chance procedure analogous to flipping a coin. These studies, without the biases of the non-randomized studies that suggested benefit, have now demonstrated that the drug is useless not only for treating but also preventing COVID-19.\nMany guidelines, including from the World Health Organization, have now recommended strongly against hydroxychloquine use.\nOf the multiple drugs previously considered promising and now tested in randomized trials, hydroxychloroquine has not been the only disappointment. Trials have demonstrated that the combination of Lopinavir and ritonavir has no benefit. Though widely used in the United States, the benefits of remdesivir are sufficiently marginal that the WHO has issued a conditional recommendation against its use.\nIndeed, the only drug that has thus far shown a reduction in death rates with COVID-19 are the very old and inexpensive corticosteroids frequently used for a wide variety of inflammatory conditions, including severe respiratory disease from a wide variety of causes.\nThe history of COVID-19 drugs provides instructive lessons, and some troubling conclusions. First, if we want to be confident about medical treatments, we need research studies with a low risk of bias — in particular, we need well-conducted, high quality, large, randomized trials.\nSecond, and related, prior to those trials, we should view laboratory results and non-randomized studies, even if encouraging, with a high level of skepticism.\nThird — and this is the troubling part — some prominent politicians seem either to not understand, or not care about, the science that should guide public health decisions. Their ignoring the skepticism with which we should meet preliminary results can lead to serious adverse consequences — as the exposure of large numbers of people to adverse effects of hydroxychloroquine without benefit, and shortages for people who needed it, demonstrate.\nThe same failure to understand appropriate standards of evidence, and the necessity for skepticism, also applies to the clinicians who were willing to so frequently prescribe hydroxychloroquine.\nLoading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading...\nMoreover, those who should surely know better — like the agency, and the Indian Medical Research Council — are excessively vulnerable to political and perhaps public pressure. In doing so, they fail in their role of protecting the public interest.\nThe solution to this problem is effective education — of the politicians, of the prescribing clinicians, and of the general public. For all its tragedy, COVID-19 may have had a number of benefits. One may be the vivid demonstration of the need to wait for clearly positive results from appropriately conducted randomized trials before we endorse and widely use new treatments that come with costs and risks.}}
{{REGINA -- Saskatchewan recorded 97 new cases of COVID-19 Monday, along with one additional death and three more confirmed cases of the B.1.1.7 variant.\nMORE CONFIRMED VARIANTS\nTwo of the new variant cases were confirmed in the Regina zone and one is in the Northwest zone. This includes the confirmation of a presumptive positive case reported Feb. 23.\nSo far, nine variant cases have been confirmed in the province; eight are the B.1.1.7 variant which originated in the U.K., and one is the B.1.3.5.1 variant that originated in South Africa.\nREGINA CASES RISING\nMore than half of the province’s 97 new cases are in the Regina zone. The test positivity rate for the Queen City was 12.8 per cent, compared to the provincial test positivity rate of 5.5 per cent.\nThe new cases are in the Far Northwest (one), Far Northeast (five), Northwest (four), North Central (10), Northeast (three), Saskatoon (six), Central East (12), Regina (50), South Central (two) and Southeast (two) zones. Two cases are pending residence information.\nThere are 140 people in hospital; 23 are in the ICU. The person who died was in their 60s and from the Saskatoon zone.\nThe province reported 151 recoveries Monday. There are currently 1,463 active cases of the virus in Saskatchewan.\nThere were 1,753 tests processed on Sunday. The seven-day average of daily new cases is 144.\nVACCINATIONS\nHealth care workers administered 892 doses of COVID-19 vaccine Sunday.\nThe shots were given in the Far North Central (17), North Central (528) and Saskatoon (347) zones.\nSo far, 92,776 shots have been given in Saskatchewan, including 64,754 first doses and 28,022 second doses.}}
{{Scientists suspect that a potential COVID-19 vaccine would be less effective in protecting obese Americans from the disease, which has infected millions worldwide and killed more than 157,000 in the U.S. alone.\nIn a new report from CNN and Kaiser Health News, researchers pointed out that other prominent vaccines dating back to 1985 -- like those for the flu and hepatitis A and hepatitis B -- have not worked as well in providing immunity for obese adults.\n“Will we have a COVID vaccine next year tailored to the obese? No way,” Raz Shaikh, an associate professor with the University of North Carolina’s nutrition department, told Kaiser on Wednesday.\nRUSSIA PLANS MASS VACCINATIONS BY OCTOBER\nThat said, those with obesity are still highly encouraged to obtain vaccinations.\n“The influenza vaccine still works in patients with obesity, but just not as well,” the University of Alabama’s Director of Diabetes Research Dr. Timothy Garvey explained.\nIn the United States, over 40% of American adults are considered obese, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has cautioned they face an increased risk if they contract COVID-19.\nWhile obesity has long been recognized as a significant risk factor for death from things like cardiovascular disease and cancer, immunologists have found it also negatively impacts the body's immune response, Kaiser reported.\n"Obesity is a serious global problem, and the suboptimal vaccine-induced immune responses observed in the obese population cannot be ignored," a Mayo Clinic Vaccine Research Group noted in a 2015 study published in the journal Vaccine and cited by Kaiser.\nWhile people with high Body Mass Index (BMI) measurements have historically been excluded from drug trials -- reportedly because of chronic conditions that would interfere with the results -- today's clinical trials for a COVID-19 vaccine do not have a BMI exclusion, according to Dr. Larry Corey, who oversees the phase III trials sponsored by the National Institutes of Health.\nCLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP\nAs scientists like Corey search for a vaccine to combat the infectious disease, experts like White House coronavirus task force coordinator Dr. Deborah Birx have warned the nation is now in a “new phase” of the pandemic.\nAccording to data from the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center, there have been over 4.7 million confirmed cases in the U.S. and more than 18 million worldwide.}}
{{Overview of Isolated Controllers and Converters Market 2020-2025:\nGlobal Isolated Controllers and Converters Market 2020 research report presents analysis of market size, share, and growth, trends, cost structure, statistical and comprehensive data of the global market. Research reports analyses the major opportunities, CAGR, yearly growth rates to help the readers to understand the qualitative and quantitative aspects of the Global Isolated Controllers and Converters Market. The competition landscape, company overview, financials, recent developments and long-term investments related to the Global Isolated Controllers and Converters Market are mentioned in this report.\nThe key segments covered in this report are geographical segments, end-use/application segments, and competitor segments. The local segment, regional supply, application, and wise demand, major players, prices are also available by 2025. Global Isolated Controllers and Converters Market are mentioned in the competition landscape, company overview, financials, recent developments and long-term investments.\nGet PDF Sample Copy of the Report ( Including Full TOC, List of Tables & Figures, Chart ): https://www.marketinforeports.com/Market-Reports/Request-Sample/219224\nTop Key players profiled in the Isolated Controllers and Converters market report include: Texas Instruments, Analog Devices, ON Semiconductor, Microchip Technology, STMicroelectronic, Diodes, Vishay, Maxim, Kinetic Technologies, Renesas Electronics, ROHM, NXP and More…\nThe Type Coverage in the Market areAC/DC SolutionsDC/DC SolutionsMarket Segment by Applications, coversConsumer ElectronicsWearable Devices/Smart AppliancesHealthcareAutomotive & Transportation\nglobal Isolated Controllers and Converters market report also highlights key insights on the factors that drive the growth of the market as well as key challenges that are required to Isolated Controllers and Converters market growth in the projection period. Here provide the perspectives for the impact of COVID-19 from the long and short term. Isolated Controllers and Converters market contain the influence of the crisis on the industry chain, especially for marketing channels. Update the industry economic revitalization plan of the country-wise government.\nTo Understand the influence of COVID-19 on the Set Screw Market with our analysts monitoring the situation across the globe. Get here sample analysis\nYears Considered to Estimate the Market Size:History Year: 2015-2019Base Year: 2019Estimated Year: 2020Forecast Year: 2020-2025Regions Covered in the Global Isolated Controllers and Converters Market:• The Middle East and Africa (GCC Countries and Egypt)• North America (the United States, Mexico, and Canada)• South America (Brazil etc.)• Europe (Turkey, Germany, Russia UK, Italy, France, etc.)• Asia-Pacific (Vietnam, China, Malaysia, Japan, Philippines, Korea, Thailand, India, Indonesia, and Australia)\nKey questions answered in this report:\nWhat are the top opportunities and trends that are currently ruling the market?\nWhat are the drivers that are shaping the Isolated Controllers and Converters market?\nWhat are the opportunities and challenges for the Isolated Controllers and Converters market created by the outbreak of the Covid-19?\nWhat are the segments of the Isolated Controllers and Converters market that are included in the report?\nWhat are the regional developments prominent in the Isolated Controllers and Converters market?\nTo get Incredible Discounts on this Premium Report, Click Here @ https://www.marketinforeports.com/Market-Reports/Request_discount/219224\nKey point summary of the Global Isolated Controllers and Converters Market report:\nCAGR of the Isolated Controllers and Converters market during the forecast period 2020-2025.\nThis report gives out a comprehensive prospect of several factors driving or restraining market growth.\nIt presents an in-depth analysis of fluctuating competition dynamics and puts the reader ahead of competitors.\nIt provides a six-year forecast evaluated on the basis of how the market is predicted to grow.\nIt helps in making well-informed business decisions by creating a precise analysis of market segments and by having complete insights of the Global Isolated Controllers and Converters market .\n. This report helps users in comprehending the key product segments and their future developments.\nDetailed TOC of Isolated Controllers and Converters Market Report 2020-2025:Chapter 1: Isolated Controllers and Converters Market OverviewChapter 2: Economic Impact on IndustryChapter 3: Market Competition by ManufacturersChapter 4: Production, Revenue (Value) by RegionChapter 5: Supply (Production), Consumption, Export, Import by RegionsChapter 6: Production, Revenue (Value), Price Trend by TypeChapter 7: Market Analysis by ApplicationChapter 8: Manufacturing Cost AnalysisChapter 9: Industrial Chain, Sourcing Strategy and Downstream BuyersChapter 10: Marketing Strategy Analysis, Distributors/TradersChapter 11: Market Effect Factors AnalysisChapter 12: Isolated Controllers and Converters Market ForecastContinued……\nFor More Information with full TOC: https://www.marketinforeports.com/Market-Reports/219224/Isolated-Controllers-and-Converters-market\nCustomization of the Report: Market Info Reports provides customization of reports as per your need. This report can be personalized to meet your requirements. Get in touch with our sales team, who will guarantee you to get a report that suits your necessities.\nGet Customization of the [email protected]: https://www.marketinforeports.com/Market-Reports/Request-Customization/219224/Isolated-Controllers-and-Converters-market\nGet in Touch with Us :Mr. Marcus KelCall: +1 915 229 3004 (U.S)+44 7452 242832 (U.K)Email: sa[email protected]Website: www.marketinforeports.com}}
{{FRESNO, Calif. -- Gov. Gavin Newsom will provide an update on California's COVID-19 vaccination efforts while visiting a vaccination site in the Central Valley on Monday.Newsom is expected to discuss California's continued efforts to distribute COVID-19 vaccines equitably. Last week, the state announced a new vaccination plan, promising more doses set aside for residents in vulnerable neighborhoods across 400 zip codes in California.Forty percent of the state's vaccine allotment will be distributed to those Californians, making about 8 million people eligible for vaccines very soon.State health officials said once 4 million doses are administered in these areas, California will begin loosening the requirements to move tiers in the state's color-coded reopening system for the economy.The announcement was among some of the state's latest efforts to move out of the pandemic-related restrictions enforced almost a year ago, including plans to bring more kids back to public schools by the end of March. Newsom signed a new bill into law on Friday to allow schools to tap into $6.6 billion of new state spending to return students to classrooms.}}
{{Fife College’s Carnegie Conference Centre in Dunfermline is to become a mass Covid-19 vaccination clinic.\nThe clinic is expected to be operational in May 2021 offering hundreds of vaccinations each day.\nPrincipal of Fife College, Dr Hugh Hall said: “We were keen to support the vaccination effort in any way we could so we are delighted that part of our Carnegie Conference Centre has been chosen as a mass vaccination centre in the Kingdom.\n“We are looking forward to welcoming Fife residents on to our campus over the coming weeks and months.”\n“Proud of the part we play”\nRepresentatives from Fife College made contact with NHS Fife earlier this year to offer the use of their facilities free-of-charge for use as vaccination clinics.\nThe Canmore Hall Suite within the Carnegie Conference Centre was identified and a thorough assessment was carried out.\nIn addition to providing significant space so that social distancing could be maintained, Carnegie Conference Centre also has good public transport links and dedicated parking facilities.\nDr Hugh added: “The College is proud of the part we play in the local communities we serve and we are pleased to be able to support NHS Fife in the fantastic work they are doing.”\nOne of four vaccination centres\nPlans are in place to have four such centres in Fife.\nThe use of Fife College’s Carnegie Conference Centre follows the recent announcement the former M&S store on Kirkcaldy High Street will also become a mass vaccination site.\nThe two remaining remaining mass vaccination sites will be confirmed shortly.\nThe new clinics are larger still and are designed to maximise the number and flow of people attending for their jab.\nVaccinations at the new clinics will continue to be by appointment only.\nMore than 220,000 jabs in Fife\nSince early February 2021 a network of community Covid-19 clinics in Fife have been in operation, performing many thousands of immunisations each week.\nMore than 220,000 jabs now having been administered, with the likely completion of first doses for those in priority groups one to nine in the coming weeks.\nPhase two will see all adults in Fife offered vaccination on a incremental basis over the coming months.\n“Largest public health intervention the Kingdom has ever seen”\nNHS Fife Director of Nursing, Janette Owens, said they are grateful for the use of Canmore Hall.\nShe added: “The Covid-19 vaccination programme in Fife is far and away the largest public health intervention the Kingdom has ever seen, with more than 220,000 jabs administered in a few short months.\n“With the first doses for those in our prioritised groups nearing completion, it’s vital that we look towards the vaccination of our wider adult population and this requires us to tailor our approach if we are to deliver the number of vaccines we are required to in timely manner.\n“Venues such as the Carnegie Conference Centre will not only enable us to perform more vaccinations than other clinics nearby, they also provide greater flexibility with sufficient space to enable us to scale up and down the programme dependent on vaccine supply.”\nVaccination programme\nThe latest information on the Covid-19 vaccination programme in Fife is available on NHS Fife’s website.\nAdditional information on the Covid-19 vaccination programme in Scotland is available on the NHS Inform website.}}
{{MarketsandResearch.biz has announced a business intelligence study on Global Automotive Automatic Transmission Valve Market 2020 by Manufacturers, Regions, Type and Application, Forecast to 2025 that reveals diverse information allowing keen market participants to understand the measures of the market. The report sheds light on market developments, noteworthy trends as well as competitive vendor activities and performance analysis. The report is aimed at offering readers real-time data vital to drive future-ready investment decisions. The research focuses on the dominant trends, persistent challenges, and threats, as well as budding opportunities influencing growth scenarios in the global Automotive Automatic Transmission Valve market. The market report is a comprehensive research that demonstrates overall consumption structure, development trends, well-known providers, and market segments.\nExecutive Summary:\nThe report assesses the historical and future timelines, accurate growth predictions, and forecast estimations, and fast-changing market forces. The report draws references for an extensive analysis of the global Automotive Automatic Transmission Valve market, entailing important details about key market players, with a broad overview of expansion probability and expansion strategies. The report has been designed and presented in the form of tables and figures and other statistical to generate higher reader perception. Later in the report, details on manufacturer information, leading market participants as well as other key players have also been added.\nNOTE: Our analysts monitoring the situation across the globe explains that the market will generate remunerative prospects for producers post COVID-19 crisis. The report aims to provide an additional illustration of the latest scenario, economic slowdown, and COVID-19 impact on the overall industry.\nDOWNLOAD FREE SAMPLE REPORT: https://www.marketsandresearch.biz/sample-request/135532\nUnderstanding Scope:\nIn-depth research and thorough evaluation of the various contributing factors reveal that the global Automotive Automatic Transmission Valve market is estimated to perform decently in forthcoming years, reaching a total valuation in 2020, and is further poised to register in 2025, growing at a healthy CAGR.\nThis research report also contains extensive information on various market-specific segments, elaborating on segment categorization comprising type, application as well as end-user sections which successively influence lucrative business judgment.\nLeading companies covered in the report include: Bosch (Germany), Atsumitec (Japan), Eaton (USA), Hikari Seiko (Japan), BorgWarner (USA), Gifu Kato Manufacturing (Japan), Avex (Japan)\nBy the product type, the market is primarily split into: Pressure Control Valves, Shift Control Valves, Timing valves, Pressure Modulating Valves\nBy the end-users/application, this report covers the following segments: , Passenger Cars, Commercial Vehicles\nThe report contains detailed market size and forecast for the following countries and regions: North America (United States, Canada and Mexico), Europe (Germany, France, United Kingdom, Russia and Italy), Asia-Pacific (China, Japan, Korea, India, Southeast Asia and Australia), South America (Brazil, Argentina), Middle East & Africa (Saudi Arabia, UAE, Egypt and South Africa)\nACCESS FULL REPORT: https://www.marketsandresearch.biz/report/135532/global-automotive-automatic-transmission-valve-market-2020-by-manufacturers-regions-type-and-application-forecast-to-2025\nMoreover, upstream raw materials, downstream demand analysis, and end-user industry listings have been studied with vendors in this global Automotive Automatic Transmission Valve market. Product flows and distribution channels were also presented in this research report. The report includes broad market segmentation based on the different product types, a wide application spectrum, the key regions, and the existing competition among players. In addition, the report reviews pricing analysis, profit margins, cost and demand volatility, import/export dynamics, gross revenue, and various other aspects of the market.\nCustomization of the Report:\nThis report can be customized to meet the client’s requirements. Please connect with our sales team (sales@marketsandresearch.biz), who will ensure that you get a report that suits your needs. You can also get in touch with our executives on +1-201-465-4211 to share your research requirements.\nContact Us\nMark Stone\nHead of Business Development\nPhone: +1-201-465-4211\nEmail: sales@marketsandresearch.biz\nWeb: www.marketsandresearch.biz}}
{{The Queen appeared in a facemask to mark the centenary of the burial of the Unknown Warrior in Westminster Abbey in November\nThe Queen, 94, and the Duke of Edinburgh, 99, have both been vaccinated against Covid-19, Buckingham Palace announced yesterday.\nThe jabs were administered during the day by a “household doctor” at Windsor Castle. Royal sources said the monarch had “decided that she would let it be known she has had the vaccination ... to prevent inaccuracies and further speculation”.\nSponsored\nIn 1957, amid widespread public anxiety about the potential side effects of a new polio vaccine, the Queen broke with protocol and let it be known that Prince Charles and Princess Anne, then 8 and 6, had been inoculated.\nIt eased public concerns, and millions went on to have the vaccine.\nPeople aged over 80 belong to the high-risk groups identified by the Joint Committee on}}
{{Hungary stole a march on its fellow EU nations as it began vaccinating its people against COVID-19 on Saturday, a day ahead of rollouts in several other countries including France, Germany and Spain as the pandemic surges across the continent.\nMass vaccination across the European Union, home to almost 450 million people, would be a crucial step towards ending a pandemic that has killed more than 1.7 million around the world, crippled economies and destroyed businesses and jobs.\nHungary administered the vaccine, developed by Pfizer and BioNTech, to frontline workers at hospitals in the capital Budapest after receiving its first shipment of enough doses to inoculate 4,875 people.\nThe first worker to receive the shot was Adrienne Kertesz, a doctor at Del-Pest Central Hospital.\nRelated coverage George Blake, Last in Line of Cold War Spies Who Betrayed Britain, Dies at 98 George Blake, who died in Russia on Saturday at the age of 98, was the last in a line of...\nHungary has reported 315,362 COVID-19 cases with 8,951 deaths. More than 6,000 people are still in hospital with COVID-19, straining the central European country’s care system.\n“We are very happy that the vaccine is here,” Zsuzsa and Antal Takacs, a couple aged 68 and 75, said while playing table tennis in a Budapest park.\n“We will get the vaccination because our daughter had a baby in France last month and we want to go see them. We do not dare travel before we get the vaccine,” Zsuzsa said.\nThe Hungarian rollout came a day before countries including France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Portugal and Spain are planning to begin mass vaccinations, starting with health workers.\nThe distribution of the Pfizer-BioNTech shot, which was first rolled out in Britain earlier this month, presents tough challenges. The vaccine uses new mRNA genetic technology, which means it must be stored at ultra-low temperatures of around -80 degrees Celsius (-112°F).\nNEW VARIANT IN FRANCE, SPAIN\nFrance, which received its first shipment of the two-dose Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine on Saturday, will start administering it on Sunday in the greater Paris area and in the Burgundy-Franche-Comte region.\n“We have 19,500 doses in total, which amounts to 3,900 vials. These doses will be stored in our freezer at minus 80 degrees (Celsius) and will be then distributed to different nursing homes and hospitals,” said Franck Huet, head of pharmaceutical products for the Paris public hospital system.\nThe French government is hoping to get around one million people vaccinated in nursing homes during January and February, and then a further 14-15 million in the wider population between March and June.\nThe Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine was approved by the French medical regulator on Thursday.\nFrance reported more than 20,000 new COVID-19 infections on Friday for the second day running, something not seen since Nov. 20. The seven-day moving average of daily new cases, which evens out reporting irregularities, is at a one-month high of 14,969.\nFrance’s number of confirmed COVID-19 cases now totals 2,547,771, the fifth-highest tally in the world, while its COVID-19 death toll stands at 62,427, the seventh-highest.\nIn a concerning development, the health ministry said on Friday that a man who recently arrived from London had tested positive for a new variant of the virus that has been spreading rapidly in southern England and is thought to be more infectious.\nIn Spain, Madrid health authorities said on Saturday they had confirmed four cases of the new variant of the virus, as the country received its first deliveries of the vaccine.\nThe boxes arrived by truck at a storage facility near Madrid as dawn broke. Employees at Spain’s medicines agency unpacked the vaccine, which is stored in dry ice, with gloved hands.\n“Vaccination will start tomorrow in Spain, coordinated with the rest of Europe,” Health Minister Salvador Illa wrote on Twitter. “This is the beginning of the end of the pandemic.”\nDoses will be taken by air to the Spanish islands and the North African enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla, and by road to other regions of the country, where a total of about 50,000 people have died from the disease.\n‘WINDOW OF HOPE HAS OPENED’\nGermany, meanwhile, said trucks were on their way to deliver the vaccine to care homes for the elderly, which are first in line to receive the vaccine on Sunday.\nThe number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the country rose by 14,455 to 1,627,103, data from the Robert Koch Institute for infectious diseases showed on Saturday. More than 29,000 people have died, in total.\nThe federal government is planning to distribute more than 1.3 million vaccine doses to local health authorities by the end of this year and about 700,000 per week from January.\n“There may be a few hiccups at one point or another in the beginning, but that is quite normal when such a logistically complex process begins,” said Health Minister Jensen Spahn.\nIn Portugal, a truck escorted by police dropped off the first batch of COVID-19 jabs at a warehouse in the country’s central region. From there, the nearly 10,000 shots will be delivered to five big hospitals.\n“It is a historic milestone for all of us, an important day after such a difficult year,” Health Minister Marta Temido told reporters outside the warehouse.\n“A window of hope has now opened, without forgetting that there is a very difficult fight ahead.”}}
{{5 further deaths and 69 extra Covid-19 cases have been confirmed this evening.\nAt least one of the new cases is in Donegal.\nIt means there have been 1,768 deaths and 26,372 confirmed cases.\n*******************\nStatement from the National Public Health Emergency Team\nThe Health Protection Surveillance Centre has today been informed that 5 patients diagnosed with COVID-19 in Ireland have died.\nThere has now been a total of 1,768 COVID-19 related deaths in Ireland.\nAs of midnight Wednesday 5th August, the HPSC has been notified of 69 confirmed cases of COVID-19. There is now a total of 26,372 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Ireland.\nOf the cases notified today;\n37 are men / 31 are women\n65% are under 45 years of age\n39 are confirmed to be associated with outbreaks or are close contacts of a confirmed case\n2 cases have been identified as community transmission\n22 cases are located in Offaly, 19 in Kildare, 8 in Laois, 6 in Dublin, and 14 are spread across eight other counties (Clare, Cork, Donegal, Galway, Limerick, Louth, Meath and Wexford).\nThe HSE is working to identify any contacts the patients may have had to provide them with information and advice to prevent further spread.\nThe COVID-19 Dashboard provides up-to-date information on the key indicators of COVID-19 in the community.\nDr Ronan Glynn, Acting Chief Medical Officer, Department of Health, said; “Over the past fourteen days, 226 cases have arisen in Kildare, Laois and Offaly. These represent almost half of all cases in Ireland over that time period.\n“While the majority of these cases can be accounted for by outbreaks, this volume of cases is significant and our main priority now is to ensure that these outbreaks do not lead to widespread community transmission in the region.\n“NPHET continues to monitor the situation closely. I urge people in these counties to remain vigilant to stop the further spread of COVID-19 in these areas.”\nProfessor Philip Nolan, Chair of the NPHET Irish Epidemiological Modelling Advisory Group, said; “We have seen a significant increase in the incidence of COVID-19 over the past week. The reproduction number for the virus is now estimated to be 1.8. A reproduction number of almost 2 is a serious concern, and although we have not yet seen a significant increase in community transmission, there is a significant risk this could develop over the coming days and weeks emphasising the need for each of us to be extremely cautious that we do not contribute to the transmission of the virus.”\nDr Colm Henry, Chief Clinical Officer, HSE said; “Public Health teams have been informed of the locations of these outbreaks as is routine and contact tracing and testing is taking place as appropriate. Our focus now is on controlling these outbreaks and taking action as necessary.\n“We also need people to continue to follow our public health advice and avoid crowds, especially indoors, and limit the number of people you meet. The Department of Health and HSE launched the next phase of our communications campaign today encouraging people to keep up the protective behaviours of physical distancing, washing our hands regularly, wearing a face covering where appropriate and downloading the COVID-19 Tracker app.”}}
{{The governor along with Department of Health Commissioner Jan Malcolm, Department of Employment and Economic Development Commissioner Steve Grove, Department of Human Rights Commissioner Rebecca Lucero and Department of Public Safety Commissioner John Harrington are scheduled to appear.}}
{{FILE - In this Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021 file photo, supporters of President Donald Trump climb the west wall of the the U.S. Capitol in Washington. In what could be the longest of legal longshots, several of those arrested for storming the U.S. Capitol are holding out hope that President Donald Trump will use some of his last hours in office to grant all the rioters a full and complete pardon. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP\nA Georgia cop who claimed he was among “the first ones over the fence” as a mob of pro-Trump rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol could face federal charges, authorities say.\nMichael Shane Daughtry is accused of “knowingly and willfully” joining the crowd that breached the federal building Jan. 6 and “impeded, disrupted and disturbed” lawmakers’ efforts to certify the results of the presidential election, according to a probable cause affidavit released by the Justice Department on Tuesday.\nDaughtry, a Pelham Police Department officer, not only bragged online about “pushing [our] way to the very front” of the Capitol but admitted to taking part in the violent siege in a recorded phone call with a fellow department officer — who alerted the FBI, according to the DOJ.\n“We [sic] the one that tore the fence down up there,” Daughtry said, according to the affidavit. “We was the first ones over the fence. Everybody followed us.”\nOn the call, Daughtry said he got as far as the Capitol door but was forced to retreat after officers shot him and others with rubber bullets, the document said.\nThe FBI said it launched an investigation Jan. 7 after the Pelham Police Department also provided investigators with screenshots from Daughtry’s personal Facebook page, which included posts about his plans to travel to Washington, D.C., to “support [Donald] Trump and put our two cents in.”\n“We’re headed to Washington, D.C. where they’re expecting 4 million people,” he wrote two days before the riot, according to screenshots included in the affidavit. “Looks like we have have to walk 5 about miles ... but it’ll be worth it to yell crap at [Nancy] Pelosi and the rest of the idiots that left wing retards voted into office.”\nIn a post from Jan. 6, Daughtry shared a picture of the Capitol and noted how it was easy to force his way upfront because “I look like security.” He also parroted false claims that the crowd had been infiltrated by Antifa protesters, who he claimed were “bussed in” by police to “fake clash” at the Capitol, according to screenshots of his other posts shared online.\n“The violence was all stagged [sic] by the Capital Police to make us look bad,” Daughtry said, the screenshots show. “I never saw one patriot cause any damage or cause any trouble.”\nPhotos and videos from that day showed rioters scaling walls, assaulting officers and smashing windows before breaching the Capitol Rotunda and, later, the House and Senate chambers, McClatchy News reported. At least five people died in the violence, including a U.S. Capitol Police officer.\nA Georgia woman was one of three rioters who died after suffering “medical emergencies” during the siege, while another woman was shot and killed by police, officials said.\nIt’s unclear if Daughtry is still employed with the police department in Pelham, located just over 50 miles north of Tallahassee, Florida.\nMcClatchy News reached out to the Pelham Police Department for comment and is awaiting a response.}}
{{×\nremaining of\nThank you for reading! On your next view you will be asked to log in to your subscriber account or create an account and subscribepurchase a subscription to continue reading.}}
{{Federal agents arrested two more Capitol Hill rioters whose images had gone viral, of one carrying off the House Speaker's lectern and another who wore horns and a fur pelt, while a top Democratic lawmaker called on mobile carriers to preserve social media content related to the carnage. Dozens of people have been charged following the storming of the Capitol on Wednesday, with the FBI asking the public for help identifying participants, given the proliferation of images of the riots on the internet. Five people have died, including a Capitol Hill police officer.\nJacob Anthony Chansley, who featured prominently on social media wearing horns, a fur pelt, face paint and brandishing a spear adorned with the U.S. flag, turned himself into police, the U.S. Department of Justice said. Chansley, also known as Jake Angeli, called the Washington office of the FBI on Thursday and voluntarily spoke to law enforcement, the DOJ said.\n"Chansley said that he came as part of a group effort with other 'patriots' from Arizona, at the request of the President that all 'patriots' come to D.C. on January 6, 2021," the DOJ said in a release. Federal agents have also arrested Adam Christian Johnson, whose photo as he smiled and waved as he carried off House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's lectern had also gone viral. Johnson, of Parrish, Florida, also streamed live video on Facebook of himself as he walked the halls of the Capitol, according to the Tampa Bay Times.\nThe video has been removed from online platforms and all his pages have been taken down. On Saturday U.S. Senator Mark Warner, a Democrat who is the incoming Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee urged mobile carriers to keep content and associated meta-data connected to the riot, which erupted as lawmakers gathered to certify the election of President-elect Joe Biden.\nWarner, in letters to the companies, emphasized how the rioters took the time to document the event and posted them via social media and text messages "to celebrate their disdain for our democratic process." Before his arrest, NBC network reported, Chansley gloated about how the crowd infiltrated the Capitol, forcing lawmakers to flee.\n"The fact that we had a bunch of traitors in office, hunkered down, put on gas masks and retreat to their underground bunker, I consider that a win," he said to NBC News. Chansley faces several federal charges including violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\nMedia reports said he had often been seen at rallies supporting President Donald Trump. Efforts by Reuters on Saturday to reach his relatives were unsuccessful, as attempted to contact Johnson's family. The Miami Herald reported that on Johnson's social media pages, which have been taken down, he boasted of being in Washington ahead of the riots.\nIt was unclear where Chansley was being held Saturday, or whether he or Johnson had legal representation. Johnson, who has a first appearance in federal court on Monday, is being charged out of Washington.\nThere were at least 13 people facing criminal charges in U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in connection to the riot, and at least another 40 people were facing lesser charges in the District of Columbia Superior Court, a local venue. Many of them were arraigned on Thursday and released, with an order from the judge to not return to Washington unless for court appearances or meetings with their attorneys.\nThey included Richard Barnett, the Gravette, Arkansas, a man who was photographed sitting at Pelosi's desk. The FBI and Washington's police department are jointly investigating the death of Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick, who was injured while defending the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday. Flags at the Capitol were lowered to half-staff on Friday in honour of Sicknick.\nCapitol Police have said the Washington police's homicide unit was probing the death. "Just because you've left the D.C. region, you can still expect a knock on the door if we find out you were part of the criminal activity at the Capitol," Steven D'antuono, the FBI Washington Field Office's assistant director in charge, said on Friday.\n(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)}}
{{MINNEAPOLIS — The jury has reached a verdict in the trial of Derek Chauvin, the former police officer charged with the murder of George Floyd last May.\nThe verdict will be read between 3:30 and 4 p.m. CT, according to the court. Chauvin was at the courthouse with his attorney.\nChauvin, 45, was charged with second- and third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter. The former officer, who is white, was seen on video pinning George Floyd, a 46-year-old Black man, to the ground with his knee last Memorial Day for over nine minutes after police responded to a report that Floyd used a counterfeit $20 bill.\nCell phone video of the incident went viral and touched off months of protests in the U.S. and abroad condemning police brutality and calling for racial justice. The widely watched trial, which began in March with jury selection, was livestreamed – Minnesota's first criminal case to be televised.\nIf convicted of the most serious charge, Chauvin faces 12 1/2 years or 150 months in prison under sentencing guidelines for a first-time offender. But, the prosecution argues there are aggravating factors that require a longer prison term. That means Chauvin may face longer than that sentence.\nThroughout the trial, prosecutors argued that Chauvin's knee – pressed against Floyd's neck while he was handcuffed and face-down on the street – led to his death by loss of oxygen. The defense argued underlying heart issues and the methamphetamine and fentanyl in his system caused Floyd's death while he struggled with police.\nThe prosecution rested its case last week after calling 38 witnesses and playing dozens of video clips over the course of 11 days. The defense rested Thursday after calling seven witnesses over two days. Attorneys for both sides presented their closing arguments Monday.\nStay updated on the aftermath of the Derek Chauvin trial:Sign up for text messages of key updates and follow USA TODAY Network reporters on Twitter.\nSecurity tightens ahead of jury deliberations in Derek Chauvin trial\nAhead of the verdict, officials were tightening security across the region and nationwide.\nDuring the trial, thousands of police and members of the National Guard were activated in Minneapolis, with guard troops carrying unloaded rifles at key intersections.\nFor the people living and working downtown, the security measures mean road closures and armed soldiers patrolling the streets. Downtown Minneapolis has largely been boarded up. The few stores and restaurants still open were hanging "Open" signs on plywood protecting their glass. Public schools are returning to remote learning Wednesday, and school officials warned parents that violence could break out.\nCity leaders said they are worried not just about anti-police protests but the possibility that white nationalists might seize the moment to sow chaos.\nMeanwhile on Monday, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz issued a peacetime emergency declaration for seven counties citing the potential for "further civil unrest" following protests over the police shooting death of Daunte Wright just north of Minneapolis and the anticipation of additional events following the Chauvin jury verdict.\nThe action allows federal law enforcement and police from other states to assist Minnesota state agencies in quelling any violence. Read more on security preparations here.\nWhat the charges against Chauvin mean\nHere’s a breakdown of the Minnesota criminal charges against Derek Chauvin.\nSecond-degree murder is causing the death of a human being, without intent to cause that death, while committing or attempting to commit another felony. In the Chauvin case, the alleged felony was third-degree assault.\nThird-degree murder is unintentionally causing someone’s death by committing an act that is eminently dangerous to other persons while exhibiting a depraved mind, with reckless disregard for human life.\nSecond-degree manslaughter is culpable negligence where a person creates an unreasonable risk and consciously takes the chance of causing death or great bodily harm to someone else.\nRead more about the charges and jury instructions here.\nContributing: Trevor Hughes, USA TODAY}}
{{(AP) - Rocker Ted Nugent is revealing he was in agony after testing positive for coronavirus — months after he said the virus was “not a real pandemic.”\n“I thought I was dying,” Nugent says in a Facebook live video posted Monday. “I literally could hardly crawl out of bed the last few days,” adding: “So I was officially tested positive for COVID-19 today.”\nIn the video shot at his Michigan ranch, the “Cat Scratch Fever” singer repeatedly uses racist slurs to refer to COVID-19 and reiterates his previous stance that he wouldn’t be getting the vaccine because he claims wrongly that “nobody knows what’s in it.”\nNugent, a supporter of ex-President Donald Trump, previously called the pandemic a scam and has railed against public health restrictions. He has repeated a narrative pushed by conservative media and disputed by health experts that suggests the official death count from the coronavirus is inflated.\nA poll by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research in late March found that 36% of Republicans said they will probably or definitely not get vaccinated, compared with 12% of Democrats. The seven-day national average of cases remains over 60,000 new infections per day.\nCopyright 2021 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.}}
{{Novavax said it needs some additional data before it can seek British authorization for the vaccine’s use, sometime in the next month or so. A larger study in the U.S. and Mexico has enrolled slightly over half of the needed 30,000 volunteers. Novavax said it’s not clear if the Food and Drug Administration will need data from that study, too, before deciding whether to allow U.S. use.}}
{{Lee County officials say the slow pace at which COVID-19 vaccines are being administered is not because of quickly overloaded phone signups or because all the shots available are not being administered.\nThey say it's simply because there's not enough vaccine available.\n"If the doses were available, I would commit to you that we would have everyone in Lee County vaccinated by the end of May," County Manager Roger Desjarlais said Tuesday. "We are prepared to ramp up this operation up to 10,000 doses per day."\nThe Florida Department of Health-Lee and Lee County announced Tuesday that there is enough vaccine supply to schedule about 5,800 appointments for Thursday, Jan. 21, and Friday, Jan. 22, at the county’s site near the airport.\nBeginning at 9 a.m. Wednesday, Jan. 20, people can call toll-free 866-200-3468 to get an appointment.\nSince Dec. 28, some 19,000 people in Lee County age 65 and older and frontline healthcare workers have received a vaccination, the county reported.\nA state public official, meanwhile, said federal instructions insist that local governments give vaccines to anyone who gets an appointment.\nIt means people with no Lee County connection from other states can take shots intended for local people.\nGov. Ron DeSantis has called for restricting the vaccinations to state residents after hearing tales of people with little connection in Florida scoring one of the treasured appointments.\nAngela Smith, of the state Department of Health office in Fort Myers, said Tuesday that nothing can be done to stops vaccines allocated for Lee residents from being given by people who successfully negotiate the telephone queue for shots.\nShe said the vaccine is a federal asset so no decision can be made locally to prevent people from other states from getting them.\nThe result could limit vaccine available to people who live here.\n"What the public needs to understand is where your home residence is is where your vaccine is being allocated to," Smith said. "By coming down here and taking vaccinations that were allocated to Lee County residents, you're essentially taking a vaccine from someone else."\nThe county has been under criticism from frustrated older residents who have been stymied by slow response on telephone reservation lines and the limited shots available.\n"There are probably 260,000 people in Lee County who are aged 65 and over," Desjarlais said at a county commission meeting Tuesday. "The problem — exclusively — is we don't have enough vaccine to go around."\nDOH's Smith said the facility set up near Southwest Florida International Airport gets every dose of the Moderna vaccine received locally into the arms of people that need the shot, and does it quickly.\n"No other single site in the state is delivering more vaccines in a day than our site," Smith said. "Our site has administered over 2,400 vaccines in one day with capacity to do much more."\nThis week, Smith said, Lee County's allocation of Moderna vaccine is more than in any other county in the site, at 5,800 doses.\n"We are getting it in people's arms and we're doing so quickly," she said. "Our only limitation at this time is the limited supply chain."\nMore: Quick sell-out for County's COVID-19 vaccine appointments\nMore:Seniors scramble to get COVID-19 vaccines, but underserved communities feel left out\nMore:Reporter's efforts to connect with Lee County COVID vaccine phone line come up empty\nEven quick trips to Florida for a COVID vaccination shot and then a quick flight home has become a vaccine strategy.\nCommission Chairman Kevin Ruane said he had been on a flight returning to Florida from New York when he spoke to a New Yorker who was headed to Fort Myers for his shot.\nRuane said the man told him he had gone through the sign-up call, snared an opening, and headed south.\n"He was tired of waiting for New York. I found that amazing that he was coming down here for that purpose," Ruane said. "He got an appointment, made a phone call and that's what he's doing. Those are the issues that people need to realize."\nRuane said the county handles logistics while federal and state governments decide the details of vaccine distribution, and that limits the ability to serve local residents.\n"We are facing curve ball after curve ball after curve ball, and all we can do is dust ourselves off in getting shots in the arms of local residents," Ruane said. "We could probably do 50,000 or more a week if we had the vaccines."\nCounty officials say the administration of vaccine at the old airport terminal has the ability to increase its capacity to handle whatever vaccine is delivered by the state.\n"We know people are really are angry. We want people to know right now we're giving about 2,500 to 3,000 doses per day," Desjarlais said. "We are prepared to ramp this operation up to 10,000 per day."\nResidents have been complaining that when they call for an appointment on the county's dedicated calling system for vaccinations they are often left in call center limbo with no appointment and no idea what happened.\nProblems with the call system developed during a state-mandated pilot program that tested the program provided by a private vendor, but the county has been approved to expand the capability of the local program.\nAssistant County Manager Christine Brady said the county has been given authority to move forward with a vendor "to address those customer service and customer call center issues."\nDesjaris said when the phone lies open for calls, both the call center and the telephone system are overwhelmed\n"When we say it's going to open at a particular time, the number of calls hitting that call center are in the neighborhood of 50,000 calls per second," he said. "It affects not just the call center itself, it affects the communications carriers, the AT&Ts and everyone else in the world."\nStill, with not enough vaccine on hand, local officials can offer empathy and sympathy but need medicine.\n"People have a lot of anxiety associated with this," Ruane said. "We're doing the best we possibly can. We are administering and vaccinating with precision. It's a state run program, it's the state's vendor, we're just actually doing logistics."}}
{{Matt James, the first Black “Bachelor” in the history of ABC’s blockbuster franchise, has spoken out against Wednesday’s e violent attack on the Capitol Building. He pointed to the a marked difference between the heavy law enforcement response to a peaceful Black Lives Matter protest in Washington, D.C., over the summer, and the response to a mob of pro-Donald Trump extremists who stormed the seat of the U.S. Congress amid months of conspiracy theories about election fraud spread by the president since his loss to President-elect Joe Biden in November.\n“Yesterday, as we watched riots take place inside our Capitol we’re reminded yet again we’re living in two different Americas,” James posted Thursday on his Instagram and Twitter accounts.\nYesterday, as we watched riots take place inside our Capitol we’re reminded yet again we’re living in two different Americas. — Matt James (@mattjames919) January 7, 2021\nJames, who is starring in the current season of the series, which launched this week, referenced last June’s protest in the plaza near Washington’s Lafayette Park, where U.S. Park police and National Guard troops used tear gas to disperse the massive crowd so that Trump could walk to a nearby church for a photo opportunity.\nAdvertisement\nAs a Black man who saw how peaceful protestors were handled this summer, I know a group of black or brown rioters would not have been dealt with the same way. — Matt James (@mattjames919) January 7, 2021\n“As a Black man who saw how peaceful protestors were handled this summer, I know a group of Black and Brown rioters would not have been dealt with the same way,” James wrote.\n“We need to address the hypocrisy and injustice in our country to set a better example for the next generation. I’m praying for America in 2021, and to say nothing is saying something.” James ended with emojis of a Black fist and the American flag.\nWe need to address the hypocrisy and injustice in our country to set a better example for the next generation. I'm praying for America in 2021, and to say nothing is saying something.” ✊🏾🇺🇸 — Matt James (@mattjames919) January 7, 2021\nAdvertisement\nJames’ comments were particularly notable because “The Bachelor” franchise has come under continual criticism during its 18-year, 41-season run for its resistance to feature a Black man as the lead. The show in the past fought a legal challenge to feature Black leads, and has been hit by charges of racism.\nIn this week’s premiere, James, who Vulture reports was once a registered Republican, acknowledged the pressure and responsibility he felt as the first Black “Bachelor.” Some of the female participants seeking his affections congratulated him for his courage.\nTraditionally, the show’s leads tend to avoid expressing their political beliefs while their seasons are on the air. The emphasis of the franchise is on romantic love, often sidestepping or downplaying topical issues.\nThe previous Bachelor, Delta Airlines pilot Peter Weber, offered no insight into his own ideological leanings, save for his support of the Seattle Seahawks. In January 2017, a few weeks after his stint as “The Bachelor” started, Nick Viall attended a Women’s March in downtown Los Angeles, though he did not post on social media about the event.\nAdvertisement\nBut in an apparent response to the ongoing criticisms, recent installments of the Warner Bros.-produced reality show have been noticeably more diverse, particularly in the pool of suitors. And the series has slowly started to include political conversations.\n“The Bachelorette” star Clare Crawley and her fiancé, Dale Moss, sit for an interview with host Chris Harrison. (Craig Sjodin / ABC)\nClare Crawley, who became the “Bachelorette” in the wake of nationwide protests over police brutality against Black men last spring, was not shown talking about the social uprising with any of the contestants on her season — despite the fact that she became engaged to Dale Moss, who is biracial. But Tayshia Adams, who was named the “Bachelorette” after Crawley departed her season prematurely to be with Moss, addressed the Black Lives Matter movement head-on in a discussion with one of her suitors, Ivan Hall.\nAdvertisement\nHall, whose brother was once incarcerated, said the police killing of George Floyd “hit home” because his sibling had faced abuse at the hands of correctional officers. “I’m realizing that I’ve been trying so hard my whole life to blend in because I knew I was different,” responded Adams, who like Hall is biracial. “I just remember hearing people yell ‘Black Lives Matter.’ … It hit me more than I realize just because those are people in my backyard that I’ve been trying to prove for so long that I’m the same as them.”\nBefore “Bachelorette” Becca Kufrin’s season began airing in May 2018, social media sleuths found that one of her male suitors, Garett Yrigoyen, had liked a series of racist and sexist Instagram posts. Yrigoyen — who received Kufrin’s first-impression rose in the season premiere — liked posts mocking Parkland shooting survivors, undocumented immigrants and the LGBTQ community.\nBy the second episode, he had issued an apology on his Instagram account, saying he’d learned “an extremely valuable lesson” and was “taking steps to grow, become more educated, and be a better version of myself.” Kufrin ultimately got engaged to Yrigoyen but the couple split last September in part due to their political differences.\nOn “Bachelor Happy Hour,” the ABC-sponsored podcast she cohosts with former “Bachelorette” Rachel Lindsay, Kufrin revealed that Yrigoyen’s support of the Blue Lives Matter movement had caused friction in their relationship. “You don’t have to be riding around with white sheets on to be doing things that are racist,” an impassioned Lindsay told Kufrin. “I know Garrett has a good heart, but the fact that he is willing to equate Blue Lives Matter to Black Lives Matter shows me that you don’t get it. Garrett is not an idiot. ... You are not willing to unlearn the world that you live in.”\nAdvertisement\nRachel Lindsay, the first Black lead on “The Bachelorette.” (Mitch Haaseth / ABC)\nLindsay, who was “The Bachelorette’s” first Black lead in 2017, had to deal with a similar controversy on her own season, when fans found that one of her contestants, Lee Garrett, had sent tweets comparing the NAACP to the KKK and claiming feminists can’t be “pretty.”\nGarrett was later confronted about his sentiments by a number of Black contestants on the season’s “Men Tell All” special, one of whom, Josiah Graham, asked him to explain “why you came on a show where the Bachelorette was an African-American woman, if on the other hand you’re tweeting about Black people and groups of Black people who fought and died so I can be on this stage next to you.”\nAdvertisement\nFollowing Lindsay’s season, franchise creator Mike Fleiss attributed the ratings dip during her tenure to Bachelor Nation’s “Trumpish” attitudes: “I found it incredibly disturbing in a Trumpish kind of way,” Fleiss told the New York Times in 2018. “How else are you going to explain the fact that she’s down in the ratings, when — Black or white — she was an unbelievable Bachelorette? It revealed something about our fans.”}}
{{Germany’s highest court upheld on Saturday a ban on a demonstration in the northern city of Bremen planned by opponents of lockdown measures aimed at containing the spread of the coronavirus.\nLower courts had already denied permission for the protest, planned for Saturday afternoon, at which 20,000 demonstrators were due to convene in the city center of Bremen.\nFor more coronavirus news, visit our dedicated page.\nLast month, German police unleashed water cannon and pepper spray in an effort to scatter thousands of protesters in Berlin angry about coronavirus restrictions.\nAlthough most Germans accept the latest “lockdown light” to curb the spread of the coronavirus in a second wave, critics say the amendment endangers citizens’ civil rights.\nThe head of Germany’s public health agency said on Thursday that the country’s success in dealing with the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic in March and April had led many people to doubt the virus’s severity or even its existence.\nLothar Wieler, head of the Robert Koch Institute for Infectious Diseases (RKI), said this meant many were now failing to take social distancing and quarantine rules seriously enough, leading to the high level of cases Germany is now seeing.\nWhile daily infection numbers are no longer rising as sharply as previously, case numbers have stagnated at a high level, and Germany reported its highest single-day death toll since the start of the pandemic on Wednesday.\nOn Saturday, the number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 23,318 to 1,153,556, RKI data showed, while the reported death toll rose by 483 to 18,517.\nChancellor Angel Merkel and state leaders agreed on Wednesday to extend restrictive measures, which include keeping restaurants and hotels shut and limiting private gatherings to five people from two households, until Jan. 10.\nRead more:\nCoronavirus: Italy reports 662 COVID-19 deaths, 21,052 new cases\nCoronavirus: Britain reports 15,539 new COVID-19 cases, 397 deaths\nCoronavirus: Kyrgyzstan reopens borders to all foreign visitors\nLast Update: Sunday, 06 December 2020 KSA 23:31 - GMT 20:31}}
{{The pressure on United States President, Donald Trump, appears to be increasing as 57% of Americans want him to be removed immediately from office, following the violent invasion of the Capitol a few days ago.\nThis report is contained in a poll which was conducted by Reuters/Ipsos on Thursday and Friday, after his role in inciting the violence that occurred on Wednesday, which left a police officer and 4 other people dead.\nAccording to a report from Reuters, President Trump, who is becoming increasingly isolated, cut off from some social media platform – including a permanent ban from Twitter, is facing renewed drive from Democrats for his resignation or immediate impeachment, after encouraging his supporters to attack the US Capitol.\nAn angry Donald Trump has been denied access to his almost 90 million followers after Twitter permanently cut off his personal account on Friday, citing the risk of further incitement of violence.\nTrump’s frequent use of Twitter was a key part of his campaign, as he overhauled the Republican Party and beat Democrat Hillary Clinton to win the presidency in 2016. Since then, he has used it to fire up his political base, attacking those who opposed him.\nA move for President Trump’s removal\nThe House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who has been a subject of personal attack and threats from some of those invaders, said on Friday that she had instructed the House Rules Committee to go ahead with the impeachment process and legislation on US Constitution’s 25th Amendment, if President Trump fails to resign.\nThe US Constitution’s 25th Amendment provides for the removal of a president who is unable to discharge his official duties.\nThis is as a copy of draft articles of impeachment which is circulating among members of Congress has charged President Trump with “inciting violence and insurrection against the government of the United States,” in a bid to overturn his loss to Biden and stop the legislature from ratifying Joe Biden’s election.\nSenate Republican Leader, Mitch McConnell, sent a memo to Republican senators detailing a possible timetable for an impeachment trial. However, according to a source, the timetable shows that the trial would not begin until Trump is out of office, as it notes that the Senate will hold its next week session on January 19 and needs the consent of all 100 senators to convene sooner.\nWhat some other senators are saying\nAs the rift within the Republican party appears to be growing, some of the senators appear to be ready to go against the US President.\nSenator Ben Sasse of Nebraska, a frequent Trump critic, said he would definitely consider impeachment of the President, because he disregarded his oath of office.\nRepublican Senator, Lisa Murkowski, on Friday, said Trump should resign immediately and if the party cannot separate itself from him, she is not certain she has a future with it. She said:\n“I want him out. He has caused enough damage.”\nBottom line\nIt is quite unclear if the lawmakers would be able to remove President Trump from office with 12 days remaining, as an impeachment would require a trial in the Senate, where Republicans are still in the majority and two-third of the 100 members must vote for his removal.}}
{{Send this page to someone via email\nThe Hamilton Chamber of Commerce has launched a survey to better understand how COVID-19 has affected the careers of working women.\nThe survey can be found at womenoutofwork.ca, is designed to take 10 to 20 minutes to complete, and will allow Hamilton women to share challenges, barriers and successes they’ve encountered during the pandemic.\nThe chamber says the results will lead to policy recommendations, on how to help women successfully re-enter and remain in the labour market after COVID-19.\n“A full economic recovery is just not possible, without the recovery of the female-dominated sectors,” says Marie Nash, chief operating officer at the Hamilton Chamber of Commerce.\nStory continues below advertisement\nThose sectors, including retail, restaurants, hotels and child care, are among the hardest hit by COVID-19.\nThe Hamilton chamber announced last September that it would be working with the government of Ontario to conduct the localized research.\nIt says the survey will close Feb. 1 and all information shared will be anonymous and remain confidential.\nThe Hamilton Chamber of Commerce adds that the research project is being conducted with the support of McMaster University, Goodwill the Amity Group, Workforce Planning Hamilton and YWCA Hamilton.}}
{{Overview of Fusion Splicers Market 2020-2025:\nGlobal Fusion Splicers Market 2020 research report presents analysis of market size, share, and growth, trends, cost structure, statistical and comprehensive data of the global market. Research reports analyses the major opportunities, CAGR, yearly growth rates to help the readers to understand the qualitative and quantitative aspects of the Global Fusion Splicers Market. The competition landscape, company overview, financials, recent developments and long-term investments related to the Global Fusion Splicers Market are mentioned in this report.\nThe key segments covered in this report are geographical segments, end-use/application segments, and competitor segments. The local segment, regional supply, application, and wise demand, major players, prices are also available by 2025. Global Fusion Splicers Market are mentioned in the competition landscape, company overview, financials, recent developments and long-term investments.\nGet PDF Sample Copy of the Report ( Including Full TOC, List of Tables & Figures, Chart ): https://www.marketinforeports.com/Market-Reports/Request-Sample/219182\nTop Key players profiled in the Fusion Splicers market report include: Fujikura, Sumitomo Electric, Multicom, Ilsintech, Furukawa and More…\nThe Type Coverage in the Market areSingle Fiber Fusion SplicerMass Fusion SplicerMarket Segment by Applications, coversTelecom/DatacomCATV and BroadcastingMilitary/AerospacePower and New EnergyHealthcare\nglobal Fusion Splicers market report also highlights key insights on the factors that drive the growth of the market as well as key challenges that are required to Fusion Splicers market growth in the projection period. Here provide the perspectives for the impact of COVID-19 from the long and short term. Fusion Splicers market contain the influence of the crisis on the industry chain, especially for marketing channels. Update the industry economic revitalization plan of the country-wise government.\nTo Understand the influence of COVID-19 on the Set Screw Market with our analysts monitoring the situation across the globe. Get here sample analysis\nYears Considered to Estimate the Market Size:History Year: 2015-2019Base Year: 2019Estimated Year: 2020Forecast Year: 2020-2025Regions Covered in the Global Fusion Splicers Market:• The Middle East and Africa (GCC Countries and Egypt)• North America (the United States, Mexico, and Canada)• South America (Brazil etc.)• Europe (Turkey, Germany, Russia UK, Italy, France, etc.)• Asia-Pacific (Vietnam, China, Malaysia, Japan, Philippines, Korea, Thailand, India, Indonesia, and Australia)\nKey questions answered in this report:\nWhat are the top opportunities and trends that are currently ruling the market?\nWhat are the drivers that are shaping the Fusion Splicers market?\nWhat are the opportunities and challenges for the Fusion Splicers market created by the outbreak of the Covid-19?\nWhat are the segments of the Fusion Splicers market that are included in the report?\nWhat are the regional developments prominent in the Fusion Splicers market?\nTo get Incredible Discounts on this Premium Report, Click Here @ https://www.marketinforeports.com/Market-Reports/Request_discount/219182\nKey point summary of the Global Fusion Splicers Market report:\nCAGR of the Fusion Splicers market during the forecast period 2020-2025.\nThis report gives out a comprehensive prospect of several factors driving or restraining market growth.\nIt presents an in-depth analysis of fluctuating competition dynamics and puts the reader ahead of competitors.\nIt provides a six-year forecast evaluated on the basis of how the market is predicted to grow.\nIt helps in making well-informed business decisions by creating a precise analysis of market segments and by having complete insights of the Global Fusion Splicers market .\n. This report helps users in comprehending the key product segments and their future developments.\nDetailed TOC of Fusion Splicers Market Report 2020-2025:Chapter 1: Fusion Splicers Market OverviewChapter 2: Economic Impact on IndustryChapter 3: Market Competition by ManufacturersChapter 4: Production, Revenue (Value) by RegionChapter 5: Supply (Production), Consumption, Export, Import by RegionsChapter 6: Production, Revenue (Value), Price Trend by TypeChapter 7: Market Analysis by ApplicationChapter 8: Manufacturing Cost AnalysisChapter 9: Industrial Chain, Sourcing Strategy and Downstream BuyersChapter 10: Marketing Strategy Analysis, Distributors/TradersChapter 11: Market Effect Factors AnalysisChapter 12: Fusion Splicers Market ForecastContinued……\nFor More Information with full TOC: https://www.marketinforeports.com/Market-Reports/219182/Fusion-Splicers-market\nCustomization of the Report: Market Info Reports provides customization of reports as per your need. This report can be personalized to meet your requirements. Get in touch with our sales team, who will guarantee you to get a report that suits your necessities.\nGet Customization of the [email protected]: https://www.marketinforeports.com/Market-Reports/Request-Customization/219182/Fusion-Splicers-market\nGet in Touch with Us :Mr. Marcus KelCall: +1 915 229 3004 (U.S)+44 7452 242832 (U.K)Email: s[email protected]Website: www.marketinforeports.com}}
{{Bloomberg\n(Bloomberg) -- Joe Biden will cancel the Keystone XL oil pipeline hours after becoming president on Wednesday, killing once again a cross-border project that had won a four-year reprieve under his Republican predecessor, Donald Trump.In one of his first major environmental actions, Biden will revoke TC Energy Corp.’s pipeline permit via an executive order because it doesn’t “serve the U.S. national interest,” according to fact sheet from his transition team.The move brings Keystone’s fate full circle, repeating a decision made in 2015 by President Barack Obama to keep the pipeline from crossing the border. Trump reversed that in 2017 on his fourth full day in office over the objections of environmental groups.TC Energy said it was “disappointed” and would suspend work on the project, leading to the layoff of thousands of workers. The decision overturns “an unprecedented, comprehensive regulatory process that lasted more than a decade and repeatedly concluded the pipeline would transport much-needed energy in an environmentally responsible way,” said the Calgary-based company.TC Energy shares pared losses after initially trading at $56, down 1%, on the news.Environmentalists are counting on the latest rejection -- coming more than a dozen years since the pipeline was first proposed -- to stick. They argue the project would provide an outlet for heavy Canadian oil sands crude extracted in Alberta through particularly energy-intensive processes that ratchet up its carbon footprint.“Putting a stop to the dirty and dangerous Keystone XL tar sands pipeline immediately and once and for all would be an important first step and testament to the leadership of the diverse grassroots movement that has long pushed to stop it and other harmful pipelines,” said Tiernan Sittenfeld, a senior vice president with the environmental group League of Conservation Voters.Biden promised the action on the campaign trail, yet his formal step still provoked outrage from oil industry leaders, some Canadian interests and labor unions that support the project.“The Biden administration has chosen to listen to the voices of fringe activists instead of union members and the American consumer on Day 1,” said the United Association of Union Plumbers and Pipefitters in an emailed statement based on news reports before the action.Construction of Keystone XL already began last year, jump started with a $1.1 billion investment by the province of Alberta. Whole segments of the line, including one that crosses to U.S.-Canadian border, have already been built.TC Energy has worked to make the project more palatable to a Democratic administration, inking labor agreements with four major pipeline unions last August, agreeing to sell an equity stake in the line to indigenous communities along the route and promising to power it entirely with renewable energy.Still, Keystone XL has been a lightning rod for controversy and a litmus test for environmentalism almost since it was first proposed in 2005. The 1,179 mile (1,897 kilometer) segment is designed to move oil from Alberta through Montana, South Dakota and Nebraska, then connect with an existing network feeding crude to the Gulf Coast. The line would carry as much as 830,000 barrels of oil a day.Opponents argue it will stimulate oil sands development, contributing to climate change.Years ago, proponents of the controversial crude pipeline argued that more of Canada’s cheaper, heavy crude would help fuel producers on the U.S. Gulf Coast wean off supplies from countries like Venezuela or the conflict-prone Middle East.But refiners in Texas and Louisiana have become increasingly flexible, using more of the abundant light oil from shale fields. Plus, Canadian crude’s price advantage has narrowed, and imports from the country have roughly doubled in a decade to a steady flow of more than 3.5 million barrels a day, without Keystone XL.“It’s not an issue for refiners,” said Robert Campbell, head of oil products research at Energy Aspects Ltd. “They can switch into domestic light. The hurt would be on oil sands producers.”Alberta Premier Jason Kenney on Tuesday urged Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to take steps to save the permit, saying its revocation “would damage the Canada-U.S. bilateral relationship.”Keystone XL was one of only a handful of energy and mining projects Biden took an explicit stand against while on the campaign trail. Environmentalists emboldened by his move on Keystone are already pressuring him to revoke a critical authorization allowing continued operation of Energy Transfer LP’s Dakota Access oil pipeline and take action against Enbridge Inc.’s plan to replace and expand its aging Line 3 pipeline from Alberta to Superior, Wisconsin.From the archive -- Why the Keystone Project Is Controversial: QuickTake“It’s exciting news,” said Dallas Goldtooth, an organizer with the Indigenous Environmental Network. “Now what are you going to do about Line 3 and the Dakota Access pipeline? We are happy, but we want to see what comes next.”(Updates with TC Energy reaction and shares from fourth paragraph.)For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.comSubscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source.©2021 Bloomberg L.P.}}
{{PENSACOLA, Fla. (WKRG) — The Florida Department of Health has reported eight new COVID-19 deaths in Northwest Florida.\nIn its daily report, the FDOH reports 7,650 new cases of COVID-19 and the following deaths in Northwest Florida:\nEscambia County:\n— Woman, 56\n— Man, 74\n— Man, 72\n— Man, 66\nSanta Rosa County:\n— Man, 89\n— Man, 76\nOkaloosa County:\n— Man, 76\nWalton County:\n— Woman, 86\nFDOH reported 120 new deaths Thursday morning.\nFlorida has now seen 7,747 deaths due to COVID-19 complications. Florida now has had more than 510,000 cases of COVID-19 since the beginning of the pandemic.\nLATEST STORIES:}}
{{CLOSE\nWAUSAU - The anguish felt over the deaths of George Floyd in Minneapolis and other black Americans in recent memory manifested in Wausau as people stood in silent protest Friday outside the Marathon County Courthouse.\n"We're battling two pandemics basically: racism and COVID-19. And we just want to keep a dialogue open with our local police department so that they understand that we understand what is going on," said Darrell Keaton Sr., 49, who was among the protesters in Wausau.\nThe ongoing pandemic lingered over the Black Lives Matter protest as about 100 people wore masks and tried to maintain social distancing while they held signs decrying police brutality against black Americans. They lined the grassy triangle median near the Grand Avenue intersection outside the courthouse Friday afternoon.\nThe protest was among many across the country that grew from reaction to a video from bystanders in Minneapolis who recorded now-former police officer Derek Chauvin pressing his knee in the neck of Floyd, who was in handcuffs and restrained, for almost eight minutes earlier this week. Floyd died as he told police he couldn't breathe. Prosecutors in Minneapolis charged Chauvin with third-degree murder and manslaughter Friday.\nThe peaceful protest in Wausau on Friday came as demonstrations spread across the country, including Milwaukee, to protest the killing of Floyd and other black Americans at the hands of police. Protests continued in other major cities where tensions remain high, sometimes turning violent in places like Minneapolis and Denver.\nKeaton was one of the first protesters, along with his granddaughter, at the Grand Avenue intersection Friday afternoon. He said showing up and protesting with her is a way to explain to her what is happening in the country with police brutality and systemic racism.\n"Be a part of the present. Be a part of the future. Know what you are facing. Don't be afraid to challenge yourself and others. Let people know that you are someone as well," said Keaton, who is the CEO and founder of the nonprofit Men & Women 4 Change.\nOther protesters, such as Tracy Wheatley, 26, said they demonstrated in solidarity with black Americans.\n"This is the literally the least I can do for people to show them there is a massive problem," Wheatley said.\nCarmyn Hoen, an organizer of the event, said the event was meant to motivate dialogue between people of color and local leaders in law enforcement and city government that results in a community plan that acknowledges the fear and concerns people of color and their allies have and adopts best practices to address them.\nWausau Mayor Katie Rosenberg and Wausau's police chief and deputy chief, Matt Barnes and Ben Bliven, were at the protest Friday to show their support.\n"This is about support. It's about showing up for your neighbors," Rosenberg said.\nBliven joined other police chiefs and officers across the country in expressing their dismay and shock at the video of Floyd's death in a long post on the Department's Facebook page Thursday. Bliven said he was committed to building partnerships with Wausau's communities of color and furthering hiring practices and training that support equality.\n"Ultimately, I do not understand the behavior of the officers on the video. I have seen a lot of law enforcement use of force videos in my career. I generally wait until all the information comes out from an investigation as that is typically the prudent course of action as I mentioned after an Officer Involved Shooting here in January," Bliven wrote. "But as a human being, and as a police officer, I just do not understand what I saw in this video."\nIn Wausau, as protesters gathered, the 10-minute video of Floyd's death, and all the others that seem frequent on social media, lingered.\n"Why haven't nobody asked that of black people in the last 500 years? How are you doing? Why are we getting that question after we burning down stuff? I'm horrified. I'm scared to death for black brothers and sisters. For my children. For my nephews and my cousins. We're worried to death about all these things," said Christopher Norfleet, a community activist and president of the equality group People for the Power of Love. "If I tell you I'm broken, will you help me be fixed? If I tell you I'm hurting, will you help me heal? If I tell you I'm lonely, will you be with me? I feel like this isn't my America and I want it to be."\nNorfleet's organization and Wausau Transfam Alliance will hold a march on June 6 at The 400 Block to commemorate Floyd. Norfleet said building better communities starts with connecting with people and acknowledging the past.\n"Get uncomfortable. Get in a room and connect. Build together. Open up businesses together. Come up with strategic plans for the community together. You know, don't just say hi and think that's good enough," Norfleet said. "You got to actually put the brick and mortar to your words. Be honest, admit wrong when wrong is had."\nRELATED: Former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin arrested, charged with murder in George Floyd's death: Updates\nRELATED: Wausau, Marathon County officers won't face criminal charges in January police shooting on west side\nContact reporter Alan Hovorka at 715-345-2252 or ahovorka@gannett.com. Follow him on Twitter at @ajhovorka.\nOur subscribers make this coverage possible. Subscribe to a USA TODAY NETWORK-Wisconsin site today with one of our special offers and support local journalism.\nRead or Share this story: https://www.wausaudailyherald.com/story/news/2020/05/29/wausau-black-lives-matter-protest-gathers-solidarity-george-floyd-black-americans-killed-police/5282667002/}}
{{Volunteers at four sites in Madison are being tested for the virus that causes COVID-19 by spitting in a vial, which may prove faster, cheaper and less complicated than other common tests, according to University of Wisconsin–Madison researchers.\nScientists from UW–Madison’s AIDS Vaccine Research Laboratory, a team that in recent years has also turned its attention to COVID-19 and Zika virus outbreaks as need arose, have tuned a relatively simple genetic testing process to find evidence of the novel coronavirus in saliva.\nWith support from a National Institutes of Health grant program that hopes to expand testing in the United States by fall, the researchers have collected hundreds of samples from volunteers at three UW–Madison sites and a local elementary school. The tests were completed in hours, a stark contrast to common wait times of several days or even weeks for results from other kinds of COVID-19 tests.\n“This sort of testing, if it is successful and can be expanded, offers hope that schools and workplaces could receive rapid turnaround testing to assist in the complex decision of managing education during the outbreak with a test that is still sensitive enough to catch the people who are contagious, but exceptional in terms of accessibility, cost, and turnaround time” says David O’Connor, professor at the UW School of Medicine and Public Health.\nThey made their early findings available in late July in a brief study posted on medRxiv, a website for health sciences research that has not yet been peer-reviewed and published in a scientific journal. The test has not been approved for clinical diagnosis. The UW–Madison researchers are studying whether this type of test can be administered frequently and efficiently.\n“Recent studies show that frequent, repeated testing is key to detecting infected people quickly,” says Tom Friedrich, professor in the UW School of Veterinary Medicine. “Because people can be contagious before they show symptoms of COVID-19, rapid testing can allow them to isolate and protect others before they even realize they are infected.”\nThe project started in February — even before the first COVID-19 cases appeared in Madison — when O’Connor and Friedrich were working with UW Hospital and Clinics to see if recent flu-like illnesses were actually the new virus.\n“We were interested in knowing whether there was silent spread of the virus in Madison,” says O’Connor. “Fortunately, diagnostic testing became available very quickly. We shifted gears to adapting an alternative type of nucleic acid testing.”\nMost testing for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, uses a chemical process called polymerase chain reaction, or PCR, to make copies of the genetic material in a small sample so they are easier to identify. The Madison group employs a different method, called reverse-transcriptase loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) to amplify the identifiable parts of virus available in saliva samples.\n“The advantage of RT-LAMP is that it is easier to set up than PCR, and doesn’t require specialized instrumentation,” O’Connor says. “We realized that this sort of testing might be more appropriate for places like workplaces, schools and nursing homes that might require on-site, frequent, repeated testing.”\nRT-LAMP also uses different chemicals than the PCR process, which has become so vital to pandemic testing that supply chains and manufacturing capacity have been stretched thin. And RT-LAMP requires fewer steps, using simpler and less expensive instrumentation than PCR.\n“I set up an (RT-LAMP kit) one Saturday afternoon and confirmed that indeed we could do the assay,” says AVRL scientist Dawn Dudley. “However, it soon became clear that this technique was not as sensitive as PCR — especially in its easiest form.”\nBoth PCR and RT-LAMP processes work better if the genetic material — the nucleic acids that make up DNA and RNA — are separated from the rest of the stuff in saliva, but the simplest version of RT-LAMP skipped that step. David Beebe, a UW–Madison pathology professor with experience in putting lab tests on small, reproducible chips, and Salus, the Madison-based spinoff company he helped create in 2013, joined the group to design and produce an extraction process that would work outside lab settings and make the RT-LAMP test much more accurate with a small saliva sample.\nDudley and scientist Christina Newman spent months adapting the test for saliva, because the group expected people would get pretty tired of the common sampling method, a swab (now also in short supply) run sometimes deep into the nose.\n“Collection is more comfortable, which is especially important if you are getting tested twice a week and important for children,” Dudley says. “Swabs can be quite invasive and somewhat damaging over time. Spitting into a tube? Not so bad.”\nNewman also set up the testing sites — including AVRL and the Wisconsin National Primate Research Center — where the researchers unload their gear from a minivan twice a week and collect samples across a folding table from as many as 60 people on some days.\n“Basically, people come, sign the consent, and spit into a tube that is left in a cooler,” Dudley says. “It takes less than five minutes.”\nWith small groups, processing can be finished, results read via a color change in the test tube and delivered in a matter of hours — and probably without a team of lab-trained scientists.\nOther groups are also testing the effectiveness of the new test. Chris Mason, a UW–Madison alum who is now a professor at Cornell University, is running a trial of his lab’s LAMP-based test with city workers in Racine, Wisconsin, where the collecting and processing is done mostly by firefighters. Salus is working on a commercial version of the test that can be deployed in small, mobile labs that Newman says could be straightforward enough to be operated by people without lengthy lab science training.\nThe researchers have run more than 400 tests, finding two positive cases and one that may be a false positive. Each result — positive and negative, save the potential false positive — has been confirmed later by checking the saliva sample with the clinical-lab-standard PCR testing. Because the RT-LAMP test is not yet approved for clinical diagnosis of COVID-19 infection, the researchers have UW Hospital and Clinics doctors contact volunteers who tested positive and advise them to get a PCR test as soon as possible.}}
{{Another round of COVID-19 stimulus checks is on the way — along with another round of scams.\nThe Better Business Bureau reports that scammers are contacting unsuspecting consumers, asking for personal information to process stimulus payments.\nScammers frequently attempt to contact people using email, text messages and robocalls.\nThe federal government uses tax return information to process stimulus payments and doesn't charge processing fees.\nFor more information, visit the Better Business Bureau Scam Tracker.}}
{{The Sudbury Star will carry a live stream of Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau’s daily briefing, beginning around 11:30 a.m.\nSee the Facebook Live video below. Please be patient as it may take a moment to load.}}
{{Clarksville, TN – Austin Peay State University (APSU) is in the process of becoming one of Montgomery County’s COVID-19 Coronavirus vaccination locations.\nWhen the state approves our application, APSU will begin distributing vaccines in Lot 11, at the corner of University Avenue and Main Street.\nThis means that the parking lot will eventually be closed for the remainder of the semester. Commuters will be able to find ample parking in lots 6, 7, and 9. To locate parking areas, please check the parking map https://www.apsu.edu/map/pdf/parking-map.pdf.\nAPSU will only administer vaccines to those who have received an appointment through the Montgomery County Health Department. Do not contact Boyd Health Services because the staff is not permitted to schedule vaccination appointments.\nYou can register online for a vaccination appointment at https://covid19.tn.gov/covid-19-vaccines/county-vaccine-information/ .\nLaptop and Cellular Hotspot Loan Program for Students\nAustin Peay State University has a limited number of laptops and cellular hotspots available to students who have technology and connectivity issues.\nFor more information, please visit the Distance Education website at https://apsu.edu/online/current-students/laptop-loan.php.\nAPSU Govs Still Wear Masks\nFor the health and safety of our entire community, please follow the mask mandate on campus. We are all in this together, and we can keep our COVID-19 numbers lower simply by wearing masks properly on campus.\nMasks are required inside buildings and outside when you are within six feet of another person.\nWe’ve received reports that people are not wearing masks inside common areas of academic and administrative buildings, as well as in the library. If you are eating, you can have your mask off for a short period, but please eat quickly.\n[40center]\nIndividuals who do not wear masks will be asked to put their mask on properly (over nose and mouth). Failure to wear a mask may result in being asked to leave the building. Violators of this policy could also be referred to the Dean of Students or Human Resources for further action.\nMake Health & Safety a Priority\nWe know you’re tired of COVID-19 Coronavirus, and you want your life to return to normal. We have worked so hard to keep our campus community healthy and safe. Now is not the time to give in to complacency and fatigue.\nThis week we have seen an increase in the number of COVID-positive community members. We have also experienced a large increase in the number of exposed individuals who now have to quarantine.\nPlease continue to distance, wear masks and avoid behaviors that put your health and safety at risk.\nThe numbers provided are active cases being tracked by the University administration. Our data is reliant upon students, faculty, and staff filling out the COVID-19 Coronavirus form on the APSU COVID-19 Website, http://www.apsu.edu/coronavirus.\nSections\nTopics}}
{{30 people test positive for COVID-19 after Lake Park, MN funeral\n"I don't regret making the choice to be there for my friend… I wish this virus wasn't happening," Family Friend Kathleen Keen Said.\nLAKE PARK, Minn. — “I don’t regret making the choice to be there for my friend. I wish this virus wasn’t happening,” Kathleen Keen said.\nPeople were wearing masks and socially distancing during her friend’s father’s funeral.\nKeen says it wasn’t until the social hour after the service that people started to take off their face coverings and come together.\n“It was in this fellowship hall and I remember looking at the windows and wishing I could open them, like, this is not good that everyone is packed together in this room,” Keen explained.\nShe says around five people have been hospitalized including Keen’s husband who was just released.\n“He feels a little bit better. He has pneumonia as well,” Keen said.\nShe hopes her experience can be a warning for people to avoid large gatherings and take the virus seriously.\nKeen says she is turning her sickness into solutions by donating her blood for research.\n“They do want people with antibodies to do research and development for covid patients,” Keen said.\nAfter sharing her story online dozens of people came to her support and helped her along the way.\n“People sending well wishes, asking how we are, it’s meant a lot,” Keen said.\nShe says she in contact with her friend and hopes everyone involved with the funeral will have a speedy recovery.\n“I just thought I had to be there and I took a chance and it is what it is,” Keen said.}}
{{Looking inside ourselves and out at the world\n®\nIndependent and neutral with regard to all political and religious orientations, Tolerance.caaims to promote awareness of the major democratic principles on which tolerance is based.}}
{{A health worker wearing a Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) suit tests a swab sample for COVID-19. NOAH SEELAM / AFP\nMore than 99,000 coronavirus cases were recorded in the United States in the past 24 hours, a new daily record, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University.\nThe country reported 99,660 new infections between 8:30 pm Tuesday and 8:30 pm Wednesday (0130 GMT), and 1,112 deaths, the tally by the Baltimore-based school showed a day after American’s went voted to choose their next president.\nMore than 9.4 million people have been infected and 233,000 have died in the US so far during the pandemic, by far the worst tolls in absolute terms globally.}}
{{Advertisement Prisma Health offers help to 70+ people wanting a COVID-19 vaccine Share Shares Copy Link Copy\nIf you have had trouble getting an appointment for a COVID-19 vaccine in South Carolina, Prisma Health says it will now offer help for people in the 70+ population. Prisma Health officials said individuals age 70+ who do not have access to computers or smartphones may be able to receive in-person assistance for scheduling and then the vaccination at every Prisma Health site except Richland Hospital in Columbia. While most Prisma Health hospital vaccination sites are taking a limited number of same-day registration/vaccination, when the patient flow creates unsafe conditions for the community or staff, people will be diverted to the two new large-scale community sites, one in Greenville and one in Columbia (see below). Officials say help with scheduling is available at Prisma Health vaccination sites on a first-come, first-served basis for a small number of people. They said scheduled appointments take priority and, due to the expected large demand for same-day assistance, long waits standing in line might occur for this in-person assistance service and to receive the vaccination. The fastest way through the vaccination site is still an email appointment using the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Vaccine Administration Management System, as you simply walk in for your scheduled time at any area site of your choice (not limited to Prisma Health). Individuals with those online-scheduled appointments confirmed in the CDC VAMS, should continue to show up at their scheduled appointment time. Prisma Health is also developing a toolkit to share with community groups who could use it to assist those 70+ with creating emails and accessing the CDC VAMS system, which, as noted, is the fastest method to an appointment without standing in line. “We are extremely pleased in the interest in our community for individuals age 70+ in the COVID-19 vaccinations,” said Dr. Saria Saccocio, chief ambulatory medical officer for Prisma Health and co-chair of its COVID-19 Task Force. “We continue to fine-tune our processes to accommodate as many of our senior citizens who need assistance in scheduling their vaccine appointments, as well as those with confirmed appointments.” Prisma Health has two large-scale COVID-19 vaccination sites, which currently only administer Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine: Prisma Health Vaccination Site in Greenville, SC 1 Kmart Plaza, Greenville, SC 29605 (near Greenville Memorial Hospital). The vaccination site, located inside the former Kmart building, is open Monday-Saturday, 7 a.m.-7 p.m.This vaccine site is for appointments confirmed through the Center for Disease Control and Prevention’s Vaccine Administration Management System (VAMS).Limited assistance and vaccine slots for individuals 70+ without computer and/or without smartphone access; requires waiting in line.Prisma Health Drive-Thru Vaccination Site in Columbia, SC22 National Guard Road, Columbia, SC 29201 (Gamecock Park near UofSC Williams Brice Stadium)The drive-thru vaccination site is open Monday-Saturday, 8 a.m.-5 p.m.This vaccine site is for appointments through the Center for Disease Control and Prevention’s Vaccine Administration Management System (VAMS).Limited assistance and vaccine slots for individuals 70+ without computer and/or smartphone access; requires waiting in drive-thru line.Those eligible for vaccines at this time should schedule their appointment by using the online form available at www.PrismaHealth.org/Vaccine or call 833-2PRISMA (833-277-4762) for assistance. Please do not call individual physician practices, pharmacies or hospitals about vaccines.“We will continue to get as many shots in arms as quickly as possible,” said Dr. Saccocio. “We are asking the public for their patience, as right now the number of people wanting a vaccine far, far exceeds the vaccine supply we receive from public health officials. Rest assured, we use every COVID-19 dose we receive, and as quickly as we can.”South Carolina remains in phase 1a of COVID-19 vaccination distribution, which includes the following: People age 70 and older regardless of health status or preexisting conditions Hospitalized, non-COVID patients age 65 and up Healthcare workers:Front-line physicians, nurses and other team members All hospital staff and independent physician practices Community first responders such as EMTs and firefighters Staff at Federally Qualified Health Centers and free medical clinics School nurses Dentists and oral surgeons Funeral home personnel For the full list of those who are eligible, go here: https://scdhec.gov/sites/default/files/Library/CR-012873.pdf For more information about Prisma Health’s vaccination process, visit PrismaHealth.org/Vaccine.}}
{{Manassas, VA (20110)\nToday\nMixed clouds and sun with scattered thunderstorms. High 87F. Winds SW at 5 to 10 mph. Chance of rain 50%. Locally heavy rainfall possible..\nTonight\nPartly to mostly cloudy skies with scattered thunderstorms during the evening. Low 66F. Winds light and variable. Chance of rain 60%.}}
{{PARIS: France will keep its restaurants, cinemas and ski resorts closed while it cranks up its COVID-19 vaccination rollout because the coronavirus is still spreading too fast and hospitals remain under severe pressure, Prime Minister Jean Castex said.\nCastex said that restaurants would remain shuttered until at least mid February and ski resorts might not open before the February holidays. A nightly curfew would be extended until at least Jan. 20 and further national restrictions could not be ruled out, he added.\n“It is out of the question that we lower our guard,” Castex told a news conference on Thursday.\nOne in every two intensive care beds are occupied by COVID-19 patients and non-essential procedures are still being postponed to ease the burden on hospitals.\nThe coronavirus has claimed more than 66,500 lives in France, the seventh highest death toll in the world.\nPresident Emmanuel Macron and his government have come under fire for the slow pace of the vaccine rollout which medical experts say is tangled in red tape and has left France lagging behind European neighbours such as Britain and Germany.\n“Vaccination has become the number one priority for the government,” Castex said. “We are convinced that it’s the broadest, fastest vaccination campaign that will allow us to emerge from the crisis. But let us not confuse haste and speed.”\nHealth Minister Olivier Veran defended bureaucratic safeguards but said procedures would be simplified and that shots would be delivered into arms faster.\nFrance’s medical regulator had approved extending the period between the two doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech shot to six weeks from three, he said, allowing more citizens to get a first shot in the near term.\nFrance still expected to deliver 1 million shots by the end of the month, Veran affirmed. So far some 45,000 only have been administered.\n“WE DON’T SEE THE END”\nFrance has pre-ordered 200 million doses of different COVID-19 vaccines, more than enough to cover its entire 67-million strong population. Surveys show six in every 10 citizens intend to refuse the vaccine.\nVeran said France was closely tracking cases of the new British and South African variants of the virus.\nNineteen cases of the British variant have been identified in France including two particularly worrying clusters in the greater Paris region and Brittany.\nFrance will continue to limit entry to France from Britain to French citizens and returning residents in possession of a negative COVID-19 test.\nWith more vaccines expected to be approved by regulators by late March, France could hope to emerge from the crisis by the summer, Castex said.\nHis remarks will be scant consolation for the country’s restaurateurs whose kitchens have been empty and chairs stacked on tables for more than two months.\n“We don’t see the end,” Alain Fontaine, manager of the Le Mesturet restaurant, said earlier in the day. He urged compatriots to get inoculated.\n“They must understand that if they want to see restaurants, cafes, bistrots, cinemas, theatres reopen, they have to get vaccinated.”\nDisclaimer: This post has been auto-published from an agency feed without any modifications to the text and has not been reviewed by an editor}}
{{The recent outbreak of the COVID-19 (Coronavirus) pandemic has built and broken many value-grab opportunities for companies in the Wood Flooring market. Gain full access on our latest analysis about COVID-19 and how companies in the Wood Flooring market are capitalizing on new strategies to maintain stable revenue income. Look into our resourceful insights highlighting the impact of COVID-19 caused on the global market landscape.\nWhy Choose MRRSE Research?\nOne of the fastest-growing market research companies in India\nFacilitating the growth of regional as well as global clients\nPassionate, dynamic, and experienced team of analysts\nA unique and methodical market research process\nRound the clock customer service available\nRequest Sample Report @ https://www.mrrse.com/sample/20227?source=atm\nThe report on the global Wood Flooring market published by Market Research Reports Search Engine (MRRSE) provides a clear understanding of the flight of the Wood Flooring market over the forecast period (20XX-20XX). The study introspects the various factors that are tipped to influence the growth of the Wood Flooring market in the upcoming years. The current trends, growth opportunities, restraints, and major challenges faced by market players in the Wood Flooring market are analyzed in the report.\nThe study reveals that the global Wood Flooring market is projected to reach a market value of ~US$XX by the end of 20XX and grow at a CAGR of ~XX% during the assessment period. Further, a qualitative and quantitative analysis of the Wood Flooring market based on data collected from various credible sources in the market value chain is included in the report along with relevant tables, graphs, and figures.\nRequest For Discount On This Report @ https://www.mrrse.com/checkdiscount/20227?source=atm\nKey Takeaways of the Report:\nMarketing and promotional strategies adopted by prominent market players\nHistoric, current, and projected valuation of the Wood Flooring market\nOverview of the regulatory framework governing the different aspects of the Wood Flooring market\nRecent advancements in the Wood Flooring market landscape\nIn-depth analysis of the different segments of the Wood Flooring market\nWood Flooring Market Segmentation\nBy Region\nThe presented study throws light on the current and future prospects of the Wood Flooring market in various geographies such as:\nBy Product Type\nThe report highlights the product adoption pattern of various products in the Wood Flooring market and provides intricate insights such as the consumption volume, supply-demand ratio, and pricing models of the following products:\nMarket: Taxonomy\nProduct Application Region Solid Wood Residential Asia Pacific Laminated Wood Commercial North America Engineered Wood Europe Latin America Middle East and Africa\nKey questions answered in the report:\n1. How much revenue will the wood flooring market hold in 2027?\n2. Which factors and market dynamics are likely to influence the wood flooring market over the forecast period?\n3. What are the pressing challenges that wood flooring market players are likely to face during the course of the forecast period?\n4. Which countries are contributing a greater share to the overall wood flooring market revenue?\n5. What are the key strategies adopted by leading wood flooring market competitors?\nThe first chapter in the TMR study on the market for wood flooring begins with a preface that elucidates a concise market outlook, with the inclusion of the market definition and scope of the report. This chapter discusses the research objectives and key highlights of the wood flooring market that helps readers gain a thorough market glance. Following this is the executive summary that pin-points the key elements enclosed in the report. The next section in the wood flooring market report is the market overview that offers a glimpse of the market with respect to key wood flooring market dynamics such as market drivers, future opportunities and restraining factors.\nThe next part includes a wood flooring market overview, which elucidates the key market dynamics, and provides analysis and forecast in terms of value and volume. Along with market projections, this section talks about Porter’s Five Force Analysis. Adjunct to this section comprises the key insights, which include analysis, opportunities for innovation, analysis of R&D activities, and other important aspects related to the wood flooring market. Following this is a detailed segmentation analysis of the wood flooring market. This assessment involves the division of the wood flooring market based on product, application and region. With the analysis of these key segments in the wood flooring market, supported by Y-o-Y growth projections and basis point share analysis, the report further helps readers recognize lucrative market avenues.\nThe TMR report on the market of the wood flooring industry offers an evaluation of the geographical landscape of the industry. Regional analysis helps competitors make strategic decisions regarding future investments and regional expansions. Individual-level assessment of countries and segment-wise analysis of individual regions simplifies the understanding of the report on the wood flooring market for target readers to assess the potential of the business in individual geographies. Backed by global volume and value share, coupled with Y-o-Y growth projections, this section is an imperative part of the study on the wood flooring market.\nThe study on the wood flooring market bifurcates a complete examination of the potential competition with the details of key market players. This section explains the framework of the wood flooring industry with the help of the market share acquired by leading, emerging, and new market players. A unique blueprint of the players in the wood flooring market helps readers in understanding the strategies deputed by prominent industry players, and their performance in the wood flooring market, including key areas of the wood flooring market competition. The competitive structure of the key players in the wood flooring market is also offered in the publication.\nResearch Methodology\nThe TMR report on the market for wood flooring is based on in-depth assessment of the market, backed by comprehensive primary and secondary research. Extensive understanding of the wood flooring market in terms of competitive landscape is further supported by individual-level analysis of various aspects related to the wood flooring industry. Assessment of the historical and current global market of the wood flooring industry, focusing on key market segments, growth drivers, major regions, and other qualitative insights, helps TMR’s analysts derive fundamental market estimates and formulate a forecast for the wood flooring market. Readers can access the wood flooring market report to acquire a forecasted market evaluation for the time period of 2019-2027.\nBuy This Report @ https://www.mrrse.com/checkout/20227?source=atm\nThe report addresses the following doubts related to the Wood Flooring market:}}
{{Several groups in South Florida are planning on taking to the streets this weekend to express their anger over the killing of George Floyd, who died last week in Minneapolis after a police officer knelt on his neck for nearly nine minutes.\nOn Saturday, the national grassroots organization Save the Kids will host a protest at the Torch of Friendship on Biscayne Boulevard from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m.\n"We demand that the murderer of George Floyd is indicted on charges of first degree murder and demand defunding of the Minneapolis police department," the group's Instagram post reads.\nDerek Chauvin, the 44-year-old officer who pressed his knee to Floyd's neck while Floyd was handcuffed on the ground, has been charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.\nFloyd's family has expressed the desire for more severe charges.\nAnother protest organized for Saturday in South Florida became hotly debated on social media as users took to Twitter to express skepticism over the event's organizers.\nThe protest, which is scheduled to take place in Coral Gables on Miracle Mile from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m., was organized by an anonymous handle, @protestsmiami, on both Twitter and Instagram.\nPosts on @protestsmiami's social media accounts have claimed that the protest is entirely unaffiliated with any local organizations, and that police chiefs from various South Florida cities, such as Little Haiti and North Miami, will be present at the event to discuss protesters' grievances.\nNBC 6 was not able to confirm whether all these police chiefs had actually agreed to be present. Chief Edward Hudak of the Coral Gables Police Department merely stated that the department was preparing to have local and federal officials on hand in case any disturbances occurred.\nOn Twitter, "Coral Gables" was trending in Florida Saturday as users debated the event, some going as far as encouraging people to avoid the event entirely.\nIf you live in Miami you are probably aware of the Protest happening in Coral Gables. This event is not Black led and invited the police to their space. This event is not centering the right voices/ideas and I do not recommend any comrades to go to what will be a co-opted event. — Rosé Martí (@rosemarti_) May 30, 2020\nOn Sunday, Black Lives Matter Alliance Broward, Broward DSA and Broward Dream Defenders plan on assembling in Lauderhill from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. The event's Facebook page asked attendees to wear masks and social distance.\n"Black Lives Matter Alliance Broward, Broward DSA and Broward Dream Defenders demand justice for George Floyd and Tony McDade as well as local people who have impacted by police violence, and an end to racist police violence everywhere!" the Facebook page reads.\nAlso on Sunday, THEE Miami Dream Defenders have organized another protest scheduled to take place at 3 p.m.}}
{{(Adds decision to tighten social distancing rules)\nBy Josh Smith\nSEOUL, Dec 6 (Reuters) - South Korea will impose heightened social distancing rules for the capital Seoul and surrounding areas, local media reported on Sunday, as health authorities struggle to contain the largest wave of coronavirus infections in nine months.\nThe decision comes after the government implemented unprecedented measures on Saturday in a country that had seen initial success through aggressive contact tracing and other steps.\nThe Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency (KDCA) reported 631 new cases as of midnight Saturday - the largest daily tally since a peak in February and early March - bringing the country's total to 37,546, with 545 deaths.\nThe new wave of infections has brought the number of active cases in South Korea to a record 7,873, according to the KDCA, raising concerns over the dwindling number of hospital beds.\nMany of the recent cases have been centred in Seoul, which on Saturday launched unprecedented curfews, shuttering most establishments and shops at 9 p.m. (1200 GMT) for two weeks and cutting back public transportation operations by 30% in the evenings.\nUnder Sunday's measures, gatherings of 50 or more people are prohibited and stricter attendance limits will be placed on religious gatherings and school classes, while businesses like gyms and karaoke bars will face new restrictions, Yonhap said.\nThe heightened curbs will last at least three weeks, until the end of the month, news agency News1 reported. (Reporting by Josh Smith; Editing by Daniel Wallis, Chris Reese and William Mallard)}}
{{The COVID-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech protects against the U.K. coronavirus variant just as effectively as it protects against the predominant form of the virus, according to new research led by the two companies.\nThe companies' study has not been peer-reviewed, but it adds to the encouraging data that suggests the currently available COVID-19 vaccines still work against the B.1.1.7. variant.\nAn earlier preliminary study found that Pfizer's vaccine is effective against a key mutation in both the U.K. and South Africa variants.\nThe mutation, called N501Y, is an alteration to the spike protein the virus uses to enter cells. Infectious disease experts say this most likely explains why these variants appear to be more contagious.\nFor the new study, lab researchers developed pseudoviruses that contain all of the mutations identified in the U.K. variant. Pseudoviruses contain only fragments of host-cell DNA and are less dangerous to work with than live pathogens. The researchers then tested blood taken from 16 people who had been inoculated against the virus.\nIn the lab experiment, the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine was able to neutralize the variant as effectively as it does earlier forms of the virus, the researchers said.\nModerna also is conducting similar testing for its COVID-19 vaccine.\nThough it is possible that currently available vaccines may not respond as well to all emerging variants, they are thought to induce a strong enough immune response to still offer protection even with a slight drop in potency, infectious disease experts say.\nIf the coronavirus changes in significant ways that affect its behavior, immunizations may need to be updated.\nThere have been 122 cases of the B.1.1.7. variant confirmed in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The identified cases span 20 states, including Pennsylvania.\nExperts worry that variants like this could worsen the pandemic before enough people are vaccinated to establish herd immunity. On Tuesday, Philadelphia expanded COVID-19 vaccination eligibility to essential workers, seniors over the age of 75 and people with certain high risk conditions.}}
{{National Politics\nPresident Joe Biden’s first full day in office Thursday focused on getting the Covid-19 pandemic under control, rolling out his national strategy that includes several executive actions related to vaccinations and testing in hopes of moving the federal response in a different direction.\n“Our national strategy is comprehensive, it’s based on science, not politics. It’s based on truth, not denial, and it’s detailed,” Biden said, speaking from the White House. He said the 198-page plan is posted on WhiteHouse.gov.\nBiden’s plan starts with a national vaccination campaign in order to meet the President’s goal of administering 100 million shots, which is enough to cover 50 million Americans with vaccines that require two doses, in his first 100 days in office.\n“We’re at Day 1,” Biden said.\nHe said the plan was developed with input from the nation’s top infectious disease expert, Dr. Anthony Fauci, among other advisers and experts.\nThe day after being sworn-in, Biden was set to sign at least 10 executive orders, memorandums and directives focused on tackling the pandemic, which, as of Thursday afternoon, has claimed the lives of more than 408,000 Americans and infected more than 24 million in the US.\nBiden signed executive orders ramping up supplies for vaccination, testing and personal protective equipment and another boosting development of therapeutics to treat Covid-19.\nBiden emphasized the need for Americans to wear face masks in order to stop the spread of the virus, saying masks are “even more important than the vaccines.”\nThe President, who has long stressed the importance of mask-wearing, signed an executive order on his first day in office requiring masks in federal buildings and on federal lands, and asked Americans to wear masks for his first 100 days in office.\nFollowing through on his campaign proposals, Biden signed two executive orders creating a National Pandemic Testing Board to improve US coronavirus testing capacity and a Covid-19 Health Equity Task Force to ensure an “equitable” pandemic response and recovery.\nAnother executive order he signed enhance the nation’s collection, production, sharing and analysis of data about the virus.\nHe directed the Federal Emergency Management Agency to offer full reimbursement to states for the cost of National Guard personnel and emergency supplies such as PPE for schools.\nBiden asked the Department of Education and Department of Health and Human Services to provide guidance for safe reopening and operating of schools, childcare providers, and institutions of higher education.\nHe signed an executive order calling on the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to release clear guidance on Covid-19, decide whether to establish emergency temporary standards, and directs OSHA to enforce worker health and safety requirements.\nBuilding on the order he signed Wednesday making masks mandatory on federal property, Biden also took action to require facial coverings in airports and on certain modes of transportation, including many trains, planes, maritime vessels and intercity buses. Thursday’s executive order also requires international travelers to provide proof of a negative Covid-19 test prior to traveling to the US.\nBiden is also issuing a presidential directive to restore America’s leadership, support the international pandemic response effort, promote resilience for future threats, and advance global health security and the Global Health Security Agenda.\nNewly-installed White House Covid coordinator Jeff Zients told reporters Wednesday that Biden’s pandemic strategy will be “a fundamentally different approach from the Trump administration,” and will be “driven by science, data, and public health” — not politics.\nCNN reported Thursday that Biden and his advisers are inheriting a nonexistent coronavirus vaccine distribution plan to speak of from the Trump administration, with sources telling CNN that they’ll have to essentially “build everything from scratch.”\n“For almost a year now, Americans could not look to the federal government for any strategy, let alone a comprehensive approach to respond to COVID. And we’ve seen the tragic costs of that failure. As President Biden steps into office today that, that’ll change tomorrow,” Zients said Wednesday.\nAfter his swearing-in ceremony Wednesday, Biden’s first action as President was to impose a mask mandate on federal property. Biden also installed a coronavirus response coordinator to oversee the White House’s efforts to distribute vaccines and medical supplies. He also signed an executive order halting US withdrawal from the World Health Organization.}}
{{At least 11 members of the air corps have tested positive for Covid-19, the Irish Examiner can reveal.\nThe Defences Forces won’t confirm how many cases there are or which units have been affected.\nThey insist they have back-up plans in place to ensure services remain operational, such as its emergency aeromedical service based at Custume Barracks in Athlone.\nSources have said at least 11 staff have been affected, many of whom are based at Casement Aerodrome at Baldonnel, Co Dublin.\nThe news comes just days after the Irish Examiner revealed two naval service ships have had to be pulled out of operation temporarily due to crews testing positive for Covid-19.\nA Defence Forces spokesperson said: “Óglaigh na hÉireann can confirm the presence of Covid-19 in the organisation.\n“While we are prioritising the health and wellbeing of our personnel, we have enacted contingency plans allowing framework operations to continue and maintaining aircraft at high readiness for various maritime defence and security operations, cargo, and personnel transport and air ambulance as required.\n“For operational security reasons, we are unable to comment on the specific disposition of individual assets, units, or aircraft.”\nRead More Two vessels tied up after Covid-19 outbreaks confirmed aboard naval ships\nThis outbreak is believed to be the worst to affect the air corps thus far.\nOne of the first known cases was in March when a single member of the air corps tested positive. The man was in a serious but stable condition in an intensive care unit while a number of his colleagues in the same wing were forced to self-isolate.\nHis positive test followed the return from Italy of a number of air corps staff earlier in the month.\nAlthough serious, his condition eventually improved.\nIn October, members of the air corps had to self-isolate after another of their colleagues tested positive for Covid after a spell of emergency training abroad.\nThey belonged to a pod in the 101 Squadron, the air corps’ maritime patrol squadron.\nMost operational units within the Defence Forces are currently operating in pods as a measure to avoid the virus spreading throughout the army, navy, or air corps.\nAs a result, many personnel are restricted from seeing their families for prolonged periods of time.}}
{{Quebec astronaut David Saint-Jacques is returning to his roots, donning scrubs to help with the COVID-19 pandemic at the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC).\nThe Canadian Space Agency said on Friday that Saint-Jacques, who is also a medical doctor, is currently in training at the MUHC.\nThis week, he began a training stint in the hospital's COVID units, facilitated by the Quebec College of Physicians and the hospital.\n"You can't go cowboy" in these situations, he said in an interview. "A lot has changed in 10 years."\nSaint-Jacques earned his medical degree from Laval University in 2005 and completed his residency at McGill University, where he specialized in primary medicine in remote areas.\nHis first tour aboard the International Space Station was from December 2018 to June 2019.\nSaint-Jacques waves goodbye at the end of his last press conference in orbit aboard the International Space Station before returning to Earth in June 2019. (Paul Chiasson/The Canadian Press)\nSaint-Jacques isn't the first high-profile Quebecer to lend a hand on the health-care front.\nAt the height of the pandemic's first wave in the spring, NFL player Laurent Duvernay-Tardif — who got his medical degree at McGill in 2018 — answered Quebec Premier François Legault's call for people to help in the province's long-term care residences.\nSo far, Saint-Jacques said, the training is going well. "I was a little anxious about it," he said. "The learning curve is steep, but it's a really great team."\nHe said he was struck by the incredible variety of people working to fight COVID-19.\n"There is sadness, and we all can't wait for this to end, but we have to lead the fight," he said. "We see the waiting lists, which are getting longer. There are so many other things that you don't do while you are focused on it."\nSaint-Jacques said it's important to remember that COVID-19 doesn't just affect the elderly or patients with serious pre-existing conditions.\n"That struck me the first time I admitted someone into my care, a man my age, who was not particularly sick before," he said. "For him, COVID was a disaster.\n"In the space between the people who have no symptoms and the people who die from them, there are people who will get through it, but who get very sick, who really go through hell, on oxygen, pumped full of drugs, in the hospital, with an impact on their families."\nSaint-Jacques said those situations are what imperil the health-care system.\n"Now is not the time to let our guard down, even though we've all had enough," he said.}}
{{While restaurants in Assam were allowed to reopen on August 2, bars were not (Representational)\nAssam Excise Department on Thursday allowed restaurants in the state to serve liquor while strictly adhering to the social distancing rules and other COVID-19 guidelines.\nA notification issued by the department stated that restaurants are allowed to serve liquor provided they have licences.\nFollowing the direction, the deputy commissioner of Kamrup Metropolitan District issued an order stating that all Indian-Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) 'ON' shops - places that are allowed to sell and serve alcohol - will be allowed to remain open from 10 am to 5 pm with strict compliance to social distancing rules and other protocols related to COVID-19 issued by the government.\nThe liquor shops in the state were earlier reopened for a brief period only to be shut down as further lockdown, night curfews and weekend curfews were reimposed across the state.\nRestaurants were allowed to reopen on August 2 but the bars were directed to remain shut.}}
{{The Browns announced Saturday one of their players has tested positive for COVID-19, so the team's flight to New Jersey has been delayed while contact tracing is being conducted.\nThe Browns (10-4) are scheduled to face the New York Jets (1-13) on Sunday at MetLife Stadium.\nThe Browns didn't disclose the identity of the player who tested positive, but a person familiar with the situation said it's not rookie starting left tackle Jedrick Wills, who landed on the reserve/COVID-19 list Thursday as a close contact.\nThe Browns released the following statement:\n“Earlier today, the Cleveland Browns were informed that a player’s test results have come back positive for COVID-19. Our facility is closed and our flight to New Jersey has been delayed while contact tracing is being conducted. The team is holding meetings remotely as we continue to consult with the NFL and medical experts on the appropriate next steps as the health and safety of our players, coaches, staff and the entire community remains our highest priority.”\nThis story will be updated.\nNate Ulrich can be reached at nulrich@thebeaconjournal.com}}
{{The Metropolitan Police Department in Washington D.C. has released photos of some of the rioters who overwhelmed police and breached the U.S. Capitol Wednesday, disrupting president-elect Joe Biden's Electoral College vote confirmation and forcing Washington into lockdown.\nPolice say four people died and more than 52 arrests were made Wednesday. The deaths included a woman who was shot by the U.S. Capitol Police, and two men and one woman who died in “separate medical emergencies,” according to D.C. Police Chief Robert Contee.\nRelated:California woman killed during Capitol riot was a military veteran and staunch Trump supporter\nD.C. police released a document with photos of individuals who stormed the Capitol and is asking for the public's help in identifying them.\nIn a statement on its website, the Metropolitan Police Department said:\nanyone who can identify these individuals or who has knowledge of any of these incidents should take no action but call police at (202) 727-9099 or text your tip to the Department's TEXT TIP LINE at 50411. The MPD currently offers a reward of up to $1,000 to anyone who provides information that leads to the arrest and indictment of the person or persons responsible for a crime committed in the District of Columbia.\nThe FBI also said it was "seeking information that will assist in identifying individuals who are actively instigating violence in Washington, D.C." The agency was looking for tips and recordings depicting the rioting and violence.\n"If you have witnessed unlawful violent actions, we urge you to submit any information, photos, or videos that could be relevant at fbi.gov/USCapitol," the agency said.\nFlorida connection? Man who took Nancy Pelosi's lectern at U.S. Capitol believed to be from Parrish, Florida\nTimeline:How a Trump mob stormed the US Capitol, forcing Washington into lockdown\nC. A. Bridges is a Digital Producer for the USA TODAY Network. Follow him on Twitter at @cabridges.}}
{{“My biggest concern is the virus among our employee population,” Alabama Department of Corrections Commissioner Jeff Dunn said. “It’s higher now than it has been in the last six or eight months and I think that just reflects the surge in the community.”}}
{{FILE PHOTO: A passenger wearing a face mask walks at the Helsinki-Vantaa airport in Vantaa, as Finnish Government has eased travel restrictions with several EU countries following the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak, in Finland, July 13 2020. Roni Rekomaa/Lehtikuva/via REUTERS\n(Reuters) - The Finnish government said on Friday it would put in place stricter regulations from Jan. 27 for entering the country, due to new variants of the coronavirus spreading within its borders.\n“The fastest way is to limit the reasons to enter the country,” health minister Krista Kiuru told a news conference, adding all travellers will be sent for a coronavirus test on border.\nFinland, which has recently been among the least affected in Europe by the coronavirus, has so far found 86 people carrying the new variants.\nFinland will restrict entry from all Schengen countries - where people are allowed to travel without border control - permitting only essential travel for work for services like healthcare and emergency services.\nFinnish officials said the new limitations should cut air travellers by around 75%, the amount of people traveling by sea to Estonia by around 75% and crossing on its Swedish border by aroud 50%.}}
{{Number of new COVID-19 cases tops 15,000 in Ukraine\nUkraine recorded 15,131 new COVID-19 cases and 235 coronavirus-related deaths in the past 24 hours, Ukrainian Health Minister Maksym Stepanov said on Friday.\n"On December 4, 2020, Ukraine registered 15,131 new COVID-19 cases. In particular, the virus was contracted by 649 children and 681 medical workers. Over the past day, 1,776 patients were hospitalized, 235 died, and 13,383 recovered," Stepanov said on Facebook on Friday morning.\nUkraine reported 14,496 contagions on December 3, 13,141 on December 2, and 12,498 on December 1.\nIn all, 787,891 people in Ukraine have contracted the novel coronavirus as of this date; 13,195 of them have died and 397,809 have recovered.}}
{{FILE – In this Wednesday, Sept. 2, 2020 file photo, blood samples from volunteers participating in the last-stage testing of the COVID-19 vaccine by Moderna and the National Institutes wait to be processed in a lab at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine in Miami. Creating vaccines and properly testing them less than a year after the world discovered a never-before-seen disease is incredible. But the two U.S. frontrunners are made in a way that promises speedier development may become the norm — especially if they prove to work long-term as well as they have in early testing. (AP Photo/Taimy Alvarez, File)\nMYRTLE BEACH, SC (WBTW) – With rising coronavirus cases and more deaths, a lot of people are anxious to get the vaccine. Publix has rolled out a program to provide the shots to customers starting Tuesday.\nPublix appointments can only be booked online. The following people are eligible: those 70 years and older, healthcare workers, residents and staff of long-term care, and state/local government employees critical to COVID-19.\nIn other areas where Publix opened vaccine appointments, they were quickly taken. “We went live at 6 a.m. this morning and they went really quickly,” said Nicole Krauss of Publix Super Markets, Inc. about 180 stores in Georgia.\nAnd by noon, she said all openings were long gone.\n“Our goal was to ensure that our customers had enough time with these appointment slots to ask any questions they may have,” said Krauss.\nAppointments were also limited because people need two shots and there is only so much vaccine. Publix rolled out a similar program last week in Florida.\nPublix is using the Moderna vaccine.}}
{{FILE – In this April 23, 2020, file photo, Raelene Critchlow, 86, receives a visit from her great-grandchild Camille Carter, 6, at Creekside Senior Living in Bountiful, Utah. Window visits help seniors connect to families despite coronavirus restrictions. (AP Photo/Rick Bowmer, File)\nCHICAGO (NewsNation Now) — The United States topped more than 400,000 coronavirus deaths on the eve of President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration. The milestone comes almost one year to the day after the country’s first confirmed case of the virus.\nJohns Hopkins University reported the deaths Tuesday during the final hours of President Donald Trump’s term. It took the United States less than five weeks to rise from 300,000 to 400,000. The first reported cases of coronavirus in the United States was reported on Jan. 21, 2020.\nThe U.S. accounts for nearly 1 of every 5 virus deaths reported worldwide, far more than any other country despite its great wealth and medical resources.\nAcross the United States, more than 123,000 people were hospitalized with the virus Monday, according to The COVID Tracking Project. The CDC warned last week that the new, more infectious variant first seen in Britain will probably become the dominant version in the U.S. by March.\nMore than 12.2 million Americans have received their first shot of the vaccine, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The CDC reports that more than 31.1 million doses have been distributed across the country.\nThis comes with Biden set to take office Wednesday with unemployment numbers high and the virus raging on. Biden unveiled a $1.9 trillion coronavirus plan in hopes to turn the tide on the pandemic, speeding up vaccine rollout and providing financial help.\nCalled the “American Rescue Plan,” the legislative proposal would meet Biden’s goal of administering 100 million vaccines by the 100th day of his administration, while advancing his objective of reopening most schools by the spring.\nGlobally, the death toll from coronavirus topped more than 2 million Friday.\nThe Associated Press contributed to this report.}}
{{DENVER (KDVR) — Three of Colorado’s largest vaccine clinics are now vaccinating people with no appointment necessary.\nGov. Polis announced the change during a news conference with CDPHE’s Dr. Rachel Herlihy Tuesday morning.\nThe following sites are now vaccinating people without appointments:\nBall Arena – 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Friday\nThe Ranch (Loveland) – 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., Monday-Saturday\nPueblo Fairgrounds – 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday-Monday\nAdditionally, the Centura clinics at Dick’s Sporting Goods Park (Commerce City) and Broadmoor World Arena (Colorado Springs) have same-day appointments available.\nPolis said the availability is due to an increase in vaccine shipments to Colorado and encouraged people who considered themselves healthy to get the vaccine since those with more immediate need have already been vaccinated.\n“Quit putting it off and get vaccinated,” Polis said. “To those who have, thank you.”\nAccording to statistics from CDPHE, about 1.5 million Coloradans are fully vaccinated and an additional 2.4 million have received one dose and are partially vaccinated.}}
{{Donald Trump has tweeted his support for college football players pushing for the opportunity to compete this season despite the Covid-19 pandemic.\n“The student-athletes have been working too hard for their season to be cancelled. #WeWantToPlay,” wrote Trump on Monday, using a hashtag started by college football players advocating for the season to go ahead.\nThe student-athletes have been working too hard for their season to be cancelled. #WeWantToPlay https://t.co/lI3CCKZ4ID — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 10, 2020\nThe president has attended several college football games in the last few years, and has generally been given a warmer reception than he has at other sporting events. He is also popular in many of the southern states that make up college football’s heartland.\n“The president would very much like to see college football safely resume their sport ... they work their whole lives for this moment and he’d like to see [the players] live out their dreams,” White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said on Monday.\nCollege football players from across the country came together on Sunday in an attempt to save their season and ensure they will no longer be left out of the sport’s biggest decisions.\nHigh-profile names such as Clemson quarterback Lawrence, Ohio State quarterback Justin Fields, Oklahoma State All-America running back Chuba Hubbard and Alabama running back Najee Harris posted a graphic on social media with #WeWantToPlay and #WeAreUnited.\n“We came to the conclusion, We Want to Play, their message might have been conveyed differently but at the end of the day the message wasn’t too far off from what Big Ten United wanted to promote,” Hunter Reynolds, one of the organizers behind a players’ rights movement, said. “Which is we all want to play sports this fall. Every athlete, I’m pretty sure, wants to play their sports. They just want to do so safely.”\nThe #WeAreUnited hashtag was used a week ago by a group of Pac-12 players in announcing a movement they say has the support of hundreds of peers within their conference. They have threatened mass opt-outs by players if concerns about Covid-19 protocols, racial injustice in college sports and economic rights for athletes are not addressed.\n#BigTenUnited arrived on the scene a couple days later, a movement that claimed the backing off 1,000 Big Ten football players. Their demands were more targeted, strictly related to health and safety in dealing with Covid-19.\nOn Sunday night, a call with Reynolds, Lawrence and others led to a Zoom meeting with some of the Pac-12 players involved in “WeAreUnited.”\nWashington State defensive lineman Dallas Hobbs got to work on a graphic and now the movement is officially nationwide.\n20 mins to save the world.... that’s all the time they wanted to give me😂 pic.twitter.com/bOkao27B83 — HOBBS DESIGNS (@HobbsDesigns_) August 10, 2020\n“Just started bouncing ideas off each others’ heads and kind of discussing where we go from here and we ended up coming up with that statement,” said Reynolds, a senior from South Orange, New Jersey.\nUnder the logos of each Power Five conference ACC, Big Ten, Big 12, Pac-12 and SEC the players pronounced their platform. They want to play this season but with “universal mandated health & safety procedures and protocols to protect college athletes against Covid-19 among all conferences throughout the NCAA.” The players also believe those who do not want to play should be allowed to do so without penalty. They added they want to “use our voices to establish open communication and trust between players and officials: Ultimately create a College Football Players Association.”\nThe statement capped a weekend during which the adults who run college sports seemed to be moving toward shutting it all down because of the pandemic.\nA day after the Mid-American Conference became the first of the major college football leagues to cancel the fall season, Power Five conference commissioners met on Sunday. They discussed mounting concerns about whether a season can be safely conducted with the pandemic still not under control in the United States.\nBig 12 Commissioner Bob Bowlsby said no decisions on the season have been made, but conceded the outlook has not improved. “Are we in a better place today than two weeks, ago? No, we’re not,” he said.\nBowlsby cited “growing evidence and the growing pool of data around myocarditis.”\nMyocarditis is inflammation of the heart and it has been found in some Covid-19 patients. There is concern it could be a long-term complication of contracting the virus even in young, healthy people, a group that has usually avoided severe cardiovascular symptoms.\nThe final call on whether major college football will played this season rests in the hands of the university presidents who oversee the largest conferences.\nWith doom and gloom hanging over college football, Lawrence, who has become the face of the sport in a summer of strife, tried to push back the tide with a series of tweets.\nPeople are at just as much, if not more risk, if we don’t play. Players will all be sent home to their own communities where social distancing is highly unlikely and medical care and expenses will be placed on the families if they were to contract covid19 (1) — Trevor Lawrence (@Trevorlawrencee) August 9, 2020\n“People are at just as much, if not more risk, if we don’t play,” Lawrence posted. “Players will all be sent home to their own communities where social distancing is highly unlikely and medical care and expenses will be placed on the families if they were to contract covid19.”}}
{{A Texas real estate broker facing federal charges for storming the US Capitol has been booted off PayPal after she asked her supporters to send money via the online payment system to help cover her legal fees.\nJennifer 'Jenna' Ryan, 50, of Frisco, is facing charges of knowingly entering a restricted building and disorderly conduct after she flew on a private jet to Washington DC ahead of the siege on January 6.\nDespite flying in style, it appears Ryan does not have cash to splash on court costs, and turned to PayPal on Thursday to help raise funds.\n'I am accepting donations to pay legal fees and losses due to my arrest and charges by the FBI for protesting at the US Capitol. Thank you for your support. Any amount helps,' Ryan tweeted along with a link to her PayPal account.\n'I have to go to trial in Washington DC for this misdemeanor. I believe I was wrongfully arrested and charged and we have to fight for my freedom and [clear] my name.'\n'I am being surrounded by hateful people who are calling me a racist and asking for me to go to prison for 10 or 20 years and saying all sorts of horrible mean things about me. They don't even know me. They want my business destroyed. I need help patriots.'\nBy Thursday evening, Ryan's bid to raise funds were thwarted when PayPayl officials kicked her off the platform.\n'PayPal has a policy to allow fundraising for legal defense purposes,' a PayPal spokesperson told CBS News.\n"PayPal thoroughly reviews accounts, and if we learn that funds are used for anything other than legal defense, the account will be subject to immediate closure. We can confirm that the account in question has been closed.'\nJennifer 'Jenna' Ryan, 50, has been booted off PayPal after she asked her supporters to send money through the online payment system to help cover legal fees for charges relating to the Capitol riots on January 6\nIt appears Ryan does not have cash to splash on court costs and, on Thursday, she turned to PayPal to help raise funds. The online payment system promptly closed her account\nRyan soon acknowledged that she had been booted off PayPal, but appeared to brush it off.\n'Shucky darn I can't do business with PayPal anymore. What am I gonna do with myself? I think I will survive. Seems like some people want to cancel me because I'm trying to get donations from PayPal. Big Woop,' she reportedly wrote in a tweet which she has since been deleted.\nRyan may not have been bothered by being blocked by PayPal because few people had donated to her cause. She had reportedly received less than $1,000 before her account was cancelled.\nThe outspoken blonde has fiercely maintained her innocence in the Capitol riots in multiple media interviews this week, including one where she claimed she only went to DC because a 'very cute guy' invited her.\nShe said she made the decision on a whim after receiving a Facebook message from a handsome stranger looking for people to join him at the rally Trump was holding at the White House.\n'He was adorable,' the single realtor - who said she loves Trump, firmly believes his unfounded claims of voter fraud and has always wanted to attend one of his rallies - told NBC News on Monday. 'So I said: 'Heck yeah, let's go.' I mean, who wouldn't go and get on a private jet?'\nBut unfortunately for Ryan, the pairing wasn't meant to be.\n'There was another adorable girl there, too, and they ended up getting together, darn it,' she said.\nEarlier this week Ryan revealed that she decided to go to DC on a whim after receiving a Facebook message from a handsome stranger looking for people to join him at the rally Trump was holding at the White House. Pictured: Ryan (left) with the new friends she joined on the jet. She did not identify her crush by name but he is presumed to be one of the three men above\nRyan is seen posing next to the private jet which whisked her to Washington DC, where she allegedly participated in the siege of the Capitol\nTwo days after the insurrection Ryan realized she had much bigger problems than the failed romance, as the FBI identified her as a person of interest and shared grabs of a livestream she filmed of herself storming the Capitol.\nRyan didn't identify her crush by name, but he is believed to be one of two men she and another woman were photographed with next to the private jet before their flight to the capital.\nThree of the people in the photo have been identified but the two others remain a mystery.\nOne of the men, seen right next to Ryan, is her friend and fellow realtor Brian Miller. On the other side of Miller is Katie Schwab, another realtor who was reportedly terminated from her job at Century 21 over her involvement in the insurrection.\nRyan is the only member of the group facing charges.\nRyan posted this photo inside the cabin of the plane on Facebook and said the group spent the flight getting to know each other while drinking and bonding over their mutual love for Trump\nRyan also posted a photo of a broken window on Twitter, writing: 'Window at The capital. And if the news doesn't stop lying about us we're going to come after their studios next'\nShe turned herself in on Friday morning, but has maintained that she did nothing wrong and has no regrets.\n'I have no guilt in my heart,' Ryan told NBC News.\n'My intention was not to have a riot. I did not want to have a riot. I was documenting what was going on in the environment I was in.'\n'I'm glad I was there, because I witnessed history,' she added later. 'I'll never get the chance to do that again. No one will probably ever be able to go near [the Capitol] again.'\nRyan is among 125 people who have been arrested so far on charges related to the violent insurrection led by Trump supporters at the Capitol. Charges range from curfew violations to serious federal felonies related to theft and weapons possession.\nIn total five people were killed during the siege, including one US Capitol Police officer who was struck in the head with a fire extinguisher.\nThe FBI and other law enforcement agencies continue to search for the identities of several other individuals who were photographed rioting in the Capitol.}}
{{SPRINGFIELD – The state’s COVID-19 death toll surpassed 10,000 Thursday as the number of new confirmed cases smashed a one-day record by more than 2,000.\nThe 9,935 new cases were accompanied by 97 COVID-19-related deaths reported Thursday, the most since 116 deaths were reported on June 4. The 86,015 test results reported made for a one-day positivity rate of 11.6 percent and drove the rolling seven-day average case positivity rate to 9.1 percent.\nNeither of those numbers had been that high since mid-May.\nHospitalizations for COVID-19 continued to surge as well, with 3,891 beds in use by those reported to have the disease. That’s the highest amount since May 21.\nSupport Local Journalism Your membership makes our reporting possible. {{featured_button_text}}\nOf those patients, 772 were in intensive care unit beds, a decrease of four from the day prior, while 343 were on ventilators, an increase of 16 from the day prior.\nThat left about 32 percent of beds and 31 percent of ICU beds available throughout the state, along with 73 percent of ventilators. Health officials, however, have said that regions 1-6, which include all that do not directly touch or include Cook County, could see bed or staff shortages sooner because those regions are already meeting or passing the highs they saw in the first wave.}}
{{The NFL has had relatively low numbers of positive COVID-19 testing since players reported to training camp.\nThe entire league has had 56 total players test positive since camp began, according to the NFL Players Association.\nThat represents roughly two percent of players on NFL rosters.\nNow Playing:\nSeveral players who have been placed on the COVID-19 reserve list, including Detroit Lions quarterback Matthew Stafford for an apparent false positive, have since tested negative and been placed on active rosters.\nDuring the offseason, per the players' union, 107 total players tested positive.\nUnlike the NBA, the NFL is not using a bubble approach.\nMajor League Baseball, which isn't using a bubble, has been dealing with a major outbreak involving the Miami Marlins that led to games being canceled.}}
{{KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) — Kansas City Mayor Quinton Lucas is a big fan of the Chiefs, but he couldn't help but worry as he watched news coverage of fans celebrating close together after the team's 22-17 NFL playoff game win over Cleveland.\nNow, with the Chiefs hosting Buffalo in the AFC Championship Game on Sunday, Lucas is urging fans to keep COVID-19 preventative measures in mind as they gather to watch.\nLucas noticed that some celebrating fans were not wearing masks and not following social distancing guidelines, the Kansas City Star reported. He said the city will touch base with entertainment districts to make sure crowds next weekend don't leave “a lot of people sick around the Super Bowl.”\nThe AFC winner earns a spot in the Super Bowl on Feb. 7 against the NFC winner. Tampa Bay plays at Green Bay in the NFC game on Sunday.\nLucas said it's safer to watch and celebrate with family rather than high-fiving strangers, and safer to watch outside if the weather allows.\n“We all have to celebrate responsibly,” Lucas said, adding that the city has “a lot more work to do as we fight COVID.”\nMissouri has reported 440,197 confirmed cases and 6,263 deaths since the coronavirus pandemic began early last year. The state health department's COVID-19 dashboard on Tuesday offered some reason for hope: The number of new cases dropped 40% over the past seven days compared to the previous seven-day period, and deaths dropped 50%.\nBut hospitals across Missouri are still dangerously full. The state dashboard showed that just 22% of in-patient beds were available, and 21% of intensive care unit beds were available.}}
{{Montana Housing at the Department of Commerce strives to work with landlords and tenants to make sure we can get through these challenging times together, with renters remaining in their homes and landlords receiving monthly payments.\nRelated to coronavirus, an eviction moratorium was put in effect by Congress and the President through the federal CARES Act, signed on March 27, and by Gov. Steve Bullock's various directives, first issued on March 30. The federal CARES Act included a moratorium on all evictions at federally covered properties, including all Housing Tax Credit properties, for nonpayment of rent for a period of 120 days through July 25, 2020. The eviction moratorium under Gov. Bullock's directives expired for most tenants on May 24, 2020.\nHowever, some protections are still in effect. These are the protections that still apply to Montana renters, even after the expiration of the eviction moratoriums:\nFor federally covered properties, the federal CARES Act requires a landlord who seeks to evict a tenant for nonpayment after July 25, to first provide tenants with a written 30-day notice to vacate. Read a summary of the CARES Act here. For all landlords in Montana, Gov. Bullock's directive provides a temporary halt on evictions and other landlord actions resulting from a renter's nonpayment of rent, utilities, or other monetary obligations. To qualify for protection, a renter must meet all three of these conditions:\nRenter must have suffered a significant financial hardship as a result of the virus, and;\nRenter must remain sheltered at home, and;\nRenter must have at least one of these conditions is true for the renter or someone in the renter's household: they are over 65, have a serious health condition, including high blood pressure, chronic lung disease, diabetes, obesity, or asthma or have an immune system that is compromised, such as by chemotherapy.\nUnder the directive, a residential landlord in response to a qualified renter's nonpayment must not:\nTerminate a tenancy or refuse to extend the terms of a tenancy on at least a month-to-month basis\nCharge or accrue late fees, interest, or other charges, penalties, or amounts due from a tenant because of nonpayment of rent\nIncrease the amount of rent payable under the terms of a rental agreement, except previously agreed increases or reasonable increases reflecting the size of the unit, number of tenants or guests or services provided by the landlord\nRequest the suspension or termination of any utilities provided by the landlord to the tenant, because of the tenant's nonpayment of utilities, rents or other amounts due under the rental agreement\nReport a tenant to a credit bureau for nonpayment of a financial obligation\nSeek or collect treble damages based on the failure of a tenant or authorized guest to vacate the premises\nTerminate a tenancy or refuse to renew or extend the terms of a residential dwelling tenancy on at least a month-to-month basis.\nBefore moving forward with an eviction against a renter who is a member of a vulnerable population, the landlord must provide the renter with adequate notice of the opportunity to seek the protection of the Governor's Directive. See page 3 of Gov. Bullock's May 19 Directive.\nMontana Housing encourages landlords and tenants to work together to avoid eviction. If an eviction is unavoidable, please consult your legal counsel to ensure compliance with all requirements of the federal CARES Act and Gov. Bullock's directives before evicting any tenants.\nIf you need help paying rent, mortgage or hazard insurance on your rental property, you may qualify for Emergency Housing Assistance or the Business Stabilization Program.}}
{{Nashville, TN – The Tennessee Department of Health (TDH) reports that there have been 589,550 confirmed cases of COVID-19 Coronavirus as of Monday, January 18th, 2021. That is an increase of 1,856 cases from Sunday’s 587,694. There have been 7,050 (+30) confirmed deaths in Tennessee because of the virus.\nThere have been E I G H T Y T H R E E new cases of the COVID-19 Coronavirus reported in Montgomery County. The total is 14,450. Eight of the new cases reported today were in the age group of 5-18 year olds. There have been 149 (+1) deaths in Montgomery County due to the virus.\nT W E N T Y S E V E N new cases of the COVID-19 Coronavirus have been reported in Robertson County. The total is 7,645. There have been eighty five deaths in Robertson County due to the virus. There have been T W E N T Y S E V E N new cases of COVID-19 Coronavirus reported in Cheatham County. The total is 3,362. There have been thirty deaths in Cheatham County due to the virus.\nThere have been S E V E N T E E N new cases of the COVID-19 Coronavirus reported in Dickson County. The total in Dickson County is 5,363. There have been seventy eight deaths in Dickson County because of the virus.\nNo new cases of COVID-19 Coronavirus have been reported in Houston County. The total in Houston County is 939. There have been twenty two deaths in Houston County due to the virus. There have been two new cases of COVID-19 Coronavirus reported in Benton County. The total is 1,321. There have been thirty five deaths in Benton County due to the virus.\nThere have been two new cases of the COVID-19 Coronavirus reported in Humphreys County. The total is 1,328. There have been seventeen deaths in Humphreys County due to the virus.\nS E V E N T E E N new cases of the COVID-19 Coronavirus have been reported in Carroll County. The total in Carroll County is 3,078. There have been fifty nine deaths in Carroll County due to the virus.\nThere have been FIVE new cases of the COVID-19 Coronavirus reported in Henry County. The total is 2,608. There have been fifty eight deaths in Henry County due to the virus. THREE new cases of COVID-19 Coronavirus have been reported in Stewart County. The total of cases in Stewart County is 1,055. There have been twenty deaths in Stewart County due to the virus.\nT W E N T Y F I V E new cases of the COVID-19 Coronavirus have been reported in Christian County Kentucky. The total is 5,225. There have been fifty seven deaths in Christian County Kentucky due to the virus.\nNashville-Davidson County now has 70,950 confirmed cases of COVID-19 Coronavirus. That is an increase of 244 cases from Sunday’s 70,706. There have been 665 (+4) deaths in Davidson County due to the virus.\nAccording to John Hopkins University, there are now a total of 24,018,793 confirmed cases of the COVID-19 Coronavirus in the United States. That is an increase of 147,723 cases in 48 hours from Sunday’s 23,871,070. There have now been 398,307 deaths in the United States connected to COVID-19 Coronavirus. This is an increase of 1,299 deaths from Sunday’s 397,008.\nTennessee Confirmed Cases\nDownload (PDF, 506KB)\nCase Management Protocol\nThe Tennessee Department of Health will post updated COVID-19 Coronavirus cases including the county of residence by 2:00pm each day at www.tn.gov/health/cedep/ncov.html.\nThe TDH State Public Health Laboratory is running COVID-19 Coronavirus testing seven days a week to assist public health authorities and health care workers in identifying cases and treating individuals.\nTDH directly oversees 89 county health departments and serves as a partner organization to the six major metropolitan jurisdictions including Shelby County, Madison County, Davidson County, Knox County, Hamilton County, and Sullivan County.\nRecommended Precautions\nTennesseans are encouraged to take routine precautions used in guarding against respiratory viruses:\nWash your hands often with soap and water. Use alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap and water are not available.\nCover your mouth and nose with a tissue when coughing or sneezing\nDon’t touch your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands\nStay home if you are sick\nStay away from people who are sick\nCOVID-19 Symptoms\nMost patients with confirmed COVID-19 Coronavirus infection have a mild respiratory illness with fever, cough, and shortness of breath. A smaller number of patients have severe symptoms requiring hospitalization.\nCOVID-19 Information Line\nTDH has launched a Tennessee Coronavirus Public Information Line in partnership with the Tennessee Poison Center. The number is 877.857.2945 and is available daily from 10:00am to 10:00pm CT.\nPeople with concerns about their health should contact their health care providers. TDH has additional information available at www.tn.gov/health/cedep/ncov.html\nThe U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has updated information and guidance available online at www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/index.html\nSections\nTopics}}
{{LEE COUNTY, Fla. — Lee Health released information about how many coronavirus patients they are caring for and other updates.\nAs of January 18, Lee Health is looking after 181 COVID-19 patients. Since Friday, the hospital system admitted 74 new COVID-19 patients and discharged 59 people who recovered from COVID-19.\nLee Health reported a 22.2% positivity rate for COVID-19 tests processed through their labs on Sunday, Jan. 17.\nThere are 9 COVID-19 patients on ventilators and 21 others are in the intensive care unit.\nA total of 4,496 COVID-19 patients have been discharged from Lee Health since the beginning of the pandemic.\nLee Health is reporting bed capacity at 88% with 14% of those beds being used for COVID-19 patients.}}
{{USWNT star Morgan has recovered from Covid-19, head coach Andonovski confirms\nThe striker and her family tested positive after the holidays, forcing her to miss the team's January camp and matches against Colombia\nU.S. national team head coach Vlatko Andonovski has confirmed that Alex Morgan has recovered from Covid-19 and is back on the training field.\nTwo weeks ago, Morgan announced that she and her family had tested positive for Covid-19 over the holidays. Following the diagnosis, Morgan was left off the roster for the USWNT's January camp and two friendlies against .\n"We’re very happy to hear that Alex is doing great and everything in terms of Covid is behind her," Andonovski said on Thursday. "She’s been training well. She passed all the medical tests and screenings that she’s supposed to in order to get back on the field and start training."\nMore teams\nMorgan recently returned to the U.S. after a short stint in England with Tottenham. After battling injuries to start her time in north London, Morgan scored two goals in four Women's appearances for Spurs.\nShe will now return to the Orlando Pride ahead of preseason and appears likely to be called in next month when the USWNT hosts Brazil, Japan and Canada for the SheBelieves Cup.\nThe USWNT defeated Colombia 4-0 on Monday night on the strength of a hat-trick from Sam Mewis and another goal from her sister Kristie.\nThe two teams will face off again at Exploria Stadium in Orlando on Friday night and Andonovski has said there will likely be some major changes to his lineup.\n"We'll have 18 players on the gameday roster and rotation will be significant," he said. "We're going to see players that didn't play or didn't start and that's what these games are all about.\nArticle continues below\n"We want to see what players can do under pressure, we want to see how certain players are connecting with different players. We want to see how different sub groups are doing.\n"We will use hopefully all six subs."\nAndonovski also confirmed that Sophia Smith and Mallory Pugh will both miss out against Colombia on Friday. Smith was injured in warm-ups on Monday night, while Pugh was injured on the third day of camp and has been working on rehabbing her injury since then.}}
{{7,995 new coronavirus infections have been recorded in just one day in the Valencian Community.\nFigures released this evening(January 19) by the regional health ministry make it worst-day yet during the pandemic as well as having the highest new infection figure in Spain.\nThe previous high of 7,497 was recorded on January 15.\nThe news comes as the region has announced new restrictions starting this Thursday.\nThat includes the complete closure of bars and restaurants, and a 6.00 pm shutting of non-essential shops and businesses.\nA record daily death toll was reached today of 98 people, 29 of them in residential homes.\nHospitalisations have leapt up to a record 3,989 in the Valencian Community compared to last Friday’s figure of 3,062.\n2,138 people are in Valencia Province hospitals; 1,525 in Alicante Province; and 326 in Castellon Province facilities.\nOccupancy of ICUs in the Valencian Community stands at over 50%, which is the highest rate of any Spanish region.\nField hospitals erected last spring in the three provinces to deal with COVID-19 cases have all been pressed into action.\n32 outbreaks have been reported in the Valencian Community, of which 24 are in Valencia Province.}}
{{Inauguration Day parade scaled down over security and COVID-19 concerns This year's Inauguration Day parade will look much different than years past because of security and health concerns. The new president and vice president will take a much shorter walk to the White House, while most of this year's parade will play out virtually. Jericka Duncan reports.}}
{{Los Angeles County this weekend reported 1,789 new cases of COVID-19 and 10 more deaths, bringing the county's totals to 208,528 cases and 4,977 fatalities.\nSunday's reported case numbers included all of the current lab reports from the state's electronic lab report system, but did not include backlog numbers from a recent glitch in the system. State officials anticipate sending the backlog of lab reports over the upcoming days.\nIn a continuing bit of good news, hospitalizations continued to decline, with 1,568 confirmed COVID-19 patients hospitalized and 31% in intensive care -- down from 1,610 on Saturday, and down significantly from the 2,200 level of about a month ago. The hospitalization numbers were averaging about 2,000 a day last week.\nCoronavirus Hospital Use Projections Across the Country\nThis interactive chart uses model data provided by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation to predict how the coronavirus will affect health care resources in different states. In states such as Florida and California, hospital bed use is projected to continue to grow into September and October. Most states have enough general hospital and ICU beds to meet demand, according to additional data from The Associated Press.\nThe technical glitch has not affected the reported number of hospitalizations.\nYounger residents continue to make up the majority of positive new cases. Of the new cases reported Sunday, 69% are under the age of 50.\n"There are many people that are grieving the loss of a family member or friend who died as a result of COVID-19. We think about you every day and wish you healing and peace during this difficult time,'' said Barbara Ferrer, the county's director of public health. "As we begin to see the curve flattening again, I want to urge everyone to remain cautious and attentive to the reality of COVID-19; it is not going away any time soon.\n"If we return to life as we knew it before the pandemic hit, we will see cases, hospitalizations and deaths increase once again. The protocols and protective measures provided by the health officer orders create opportunities for us continue on a recovery journey -- but only if they are followed. Please avoid parties and crowded situations, wear face coverings at all times when out of your home, maintain physical distance from people you don't live with, and wash your hands frequently.''\nThe Los Angeles County Department of Public Health urges any person with a positive lab result to call 1-833-540-0473 to connect with a public health specialist who can provide information about services and support.\nTesting results were available for 1,932,963 individuals as of Sunday, with 10% of all people testing positive.}}
{{Kindly Share This Story:\nBy Sola Ogundipe\nAs Nigeria grapples with rising infections caused by the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, a team of international public health, researchers have revealed that the lockdown and restrictions imposed in the country between March and May 2020 may have averted not less than 5.8 million infections.\nIn a statement made available to Vanguard, the team of researchers drawn from Parexel International, Harvard University and Holly Hill Hospital in the United States; Sefako Makgatho Health Sciences University in South Africa, and the Benue State University as well as the Universities of Ibadan, Lagos and Calabar, in Nigeria, said their findings support the use of restricted mobility as a measure for infection control in Nigeria.\nThey pointed out that noticeable spikes in people’s movement, occurred on Saturdays and Sundays, attributable to social events even during the lockdown and restrictions.\nAlso read:\nThe research findings, published by the highly reputable public health journal JAMA Network Open, are based on information from confirmed COVID-19 cases provided by Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, from February 27 to July 21, 2020, and Nigeria specific mobility data from Google in the same period.\nThey said their work was motivated by the need to better understand how the lockdown affected peoples’ movement and community spread of COVID-19, and the information from the result could inform future public health responses to subsequent waves of COVID-19.\nThe report stated: “Our study goals were to measure the association of government-mandated closures and restrictions with aggregate mobility, to evaluate associations between aggregate mobility and number of individuals with laboratory-confirmed SARS-COV-2 infections and to estimate the number of SARS COV-2 infections that may have been averted.\n“Most countries including Nigeria responded accordingly, and part of the Nigerian government response included socioeconomic and public health interventions to reduce the impact of the pandemic.\n“Socioeconomic interventions included providing cash transfers, lines of credit, and food assistance to poor and high-risk households, while public health interventions included government-mandated closures and restrictions on schools, social gatherings and all forms of transportation (locally referred to as lockdown)\nFollowing the closures and restrictions initiated on March 30, 2020, and partially eased on May 4, 2020, the researchers used sophisticated statistical techniques to analyse NCDC data on daily infection counts anonymised Google mobility data from Nigeria (covering about 40 million individuals who activated location history on their smartphone google accounts), and publicly available information on the lockdown (e.g. dates for initiating and partially easing the lockdown).\nThe cross-sectional study found that government-mandated closures and restrictions in Nigeria owing to COVID-19 was associated with significantly reduced aggregate mobility everywhere (except in residential areas) and may have averted up to 5.8 million coronavirus infections.\nAdditionally, they found that the community spread of COVID-19 in Nigeria may have been faster in residential areas, transit stations (e.g. motor parks) and workplaces (including likely venues of social events).\n“Our findings support the use of restricted mobility as a measure of infection control in Nigeria should there be additional COVID-19 waves in the future. Restrictions on movement are unsustainable in the long term and that “future closure and restrictions, if warranted, need to be more effective,” the researchers noted.\nThey suggested that areas of improvement include tougher restrictions on movement and more robust contact tracing in residential areas, transit hubs, and workplaces, greater testing capacity and more political support for testing; greater access to COVID-19 data for policy and process evaluation to identify opportunities for efficiency gains, and more personal responsibility above and beyond the public health campaign dubbed the 3Ws (washing hands or using hand sanitiser regularly, wearing a cloth mask over the nose and mouth, and staying six feet apart (social distancing).\nVanguard News Nigeria\nKindly Share This Story:}}
{{Iran confirmed Tuesday its first case of a new Covid-19 variant first detected in Britain, as daily deaths dropped below 100 for the first time in over six months. Sadly, the first instance of the mutated British Covid-19 was detected in one of our compatriots who had arrived from England, Health Minister Saeed Namaki said\nSource: Punch Newspaper}}
{{ST. PAUL — The Minnesota Department of Health will hold a conference call at 2 p.m. Monday, Aug. 10, to brief members of the media on the latest public health information regarding COVID-19.\nSpeakers will include MDH Commissioner Jan Malcolm; Lindsey Krueger, director of MDH Office of Health Facility Complaints; Minnesota Deputy Ombudsman for Long-Term Care Aisha Elmquist; and a family member of a long-term care resident.\nWatch a livestream of the event below. Refresh your browser closer to the start time if the video player does not display.\nAs a public service, we’ve opened this article to everyone regardless of subscription status. If this coverage is important to you, please consider supporting local journalism by clicking on the subscribe button in the upper right-hand corner of the homepage.}}
{{Send this page to someone via email\nFernie is the latest city in the B.C. Interior to report a spike in COVID-19 cases.\nOfficials say the positivity rate in Fernie has jumped to 20 per cent in recent weeks but they are not sure what is leading the surge.\nDr. Ron Clark, the top doctor at Elk Valley Hospital in Fernie, told Global News he is concerned they will see a community cluster similar to one at Big White Ski Resort or in nearby Revelstoke.\nClark is urging everyone in the community to follow the rules.\n“We’re now in a situation where if we order five tests for COVID, one of them is going to be positive,” he said. “Over 20 per cent of the tests we’re doing now are returning as positive and it’s across quite a wide swath of our population so this is obviously worrisome.”\nStory continues below advertisement\n0:24 Revelstoke seeing increased COVID-19 activity again Revelstoke seeing increased COVID-19 activity again – Jan 5, 2021\nClark said he thinks everyone should go back to the strict behaviour of when the pandemic began — social distancing, wearing masks, washing their hands and staying home if they are sick.\n[ Sign up for our Health IQ newsletter for the latest coronavirus updates ]\n“We’re getting over 20 per cent positive rates on our testing now — that’s horrible, that’s as bad as anywhere in the world right now and clearly shows that this is absolutely widespread in our community and at the end of this we could potentially have many, many, many, many positive cases, hundreds even, maybe more.”\nClark said he is concerned with this positivity rate, the government will mandate closures again, which will hurt the community.\n“This isn’t one or two people,” he added. “This is a lot of people.”\nStory continues below advertisement\nAccording to Statistics Canada, the population of Fernie in 2016 was 4,850.\nAll long-term care residents in Fernie have now received the vaccine, Clark confirmed.\nThe community cluster at Big White Ski Resort continues to grow, health officials announced on Tuesday afternoon.\nInterior Health said another 28 confirmed cases of COVID-19 have been identified, pushing the cluster total to 203.\nThe health agency said of the 28 new cases, 22 individuals either reside or work at Big White. It also said that of the 203 known cases linked to this cluster, 126 have resided and/or worked at Big White.\n1:59 Closer look at post-holiday hospital COVID-19 numbers in B.C. Closer look at post-holiday hospital COVID-19 numbers in B.C.\nThe cluster was first announced on Dec. 15, when 60 cases were announced.\nStory continues below advertisement\n—with files from Doyle Potenteau}}
{{Dec 4 (Reuters) - Cricket South Africa have said the first One-Day International between South Africa and England that was scheduled for Newlands on Friday has been moved to Sunday after a player from the home team tested positive for COVID-19.\nThe latest round of tests conducted on Thursday resulted in an unnamed South African player returning a positive result, the third from within the camp during the six-match limited overs series. (Reporting by Nick Said; Editing by Hugh Lawson)}}
{{Cerritos College first closed in-person instruction in March and will remain mostly online for the Spring 2021 semester. Photo credit: Edgar Mendoza\nAs Fall classes move into their final weeks, the Cerritos College has reported a total of eight cases of COVID-19 between Mar. 27 and Nov. 17. Six of the cases were employees, with one student and one child from the Child Development Center on campus.\nThe school contacted all those who were in close contact with the people who tested positive in accordance to LA County public health guidelines. It is still uncertain if initial transmission actually occurred on campus.\nPresident and Superintendent Dr. Jose Fierro writes updates for the College’s COVID-19 page. There he announced that the eight people who tested positive, whose names can’t be revealed due to security reasons, have been ordered to self quarantine at home.\n“Cerritos College will continue to diligently follow recommendations of public health officials and infectious disease experts to further reduce community transmission of the virus,” Fierro said.\nEven with tightly limited classes on campus, with screenings, mask and social distancing guidelines, cases were still discovered on campus as recent as November, including one child from the Child Development Center as reported by Talon Marks.\nCerritos College Faculty Federation President and counselor Dr. Lynn Wang addressed her concerns to the Board of Trustees at their Nov. 18 meeting, asking for help in protecting staff on campus.\n“Now more than ever, we need help from the Board of Trustees,” Wang said, “I’m asking you to not cancel classes, reduce the requirements to receive part time medical reimbursements to those who are only teaching one class… provide appropriate PPE beyond face masks and keep faculty involved in decision making on campus.”\nThe last reported employee who tested positive for COVID-19 was on Nov. 17, the day prior to the Board of Trustees meeting.\nAs of Tuesday, the Los Angeles Times has reported that cases and hospitalizations have reached record highs with 14,120 cases per day with more than 8,200 hospitalized in California.\nThis spike in cases comes right as two potential vaccines, created by pharmaceutical giants, Pfizer and Moderna, are expected to get emergency approval in mid-December.\nOnline and remote learning will continue through the Spring 2021 semester as the college awaits further updates from LA County.\nCerritos College has preemptively rolled out their ‘Return to Campus’ plan, which uses public health recommendations to create guidelines and protocol for students, staff and faculty on campus.\n“Everyone must answer and complete daily health question survey prior to their visit,” said Assistant Superintendent and Vice President of Business Services Felipe Lopez.\n“Upon a successful temperature check you will be given a color-coded wrist band. That wrist band [will] get you clearance to enter your classroom lab or study hall.”}}
{{“A lot of these data are telling us that we need to be acting pretty early in this process,” said John Wherry, an immunologist at the University of Pennsylvania who recently published a study of these telltale immune signatures. As more findings come out, researchers may be able to begin testing the idea that “we can change the trajectory of disease,” he said.}}
{{The city’s interim health authority says he stands by his decision to offer COVID-19 vaccines to state legislators as many others across the state continue searching for doses.\n“Number 1: We have a unique event which is happening in our jurisdiction, in the City of Austin, in Travis County,” Dr. Mark Escott said "That is the legislative session, which brings individuals from around the state of Texas to one place. [We’re] talking about thousands of people who are going to be in contact for six months. That represents a risk for a superspreading event.”\nEscott said the other concern is continuity of government and recognizing that essential government services must continue during the pandemic.\n“My hope is that the state will provide a specific allocation for that purpose. But as far as the city and county is concerned, we are going to focus some of our resources, a small amount of resources, on that continuity-of-government plan,” he said.\nThat includes inoculating elected city and county officials, county and state judges and key staff who qualify as part of the 1B population of adults older than 65 and those with underlying conditions.\nGot a tip? Email Jerry Quijano at jerry@kut.org. Follow him on Twitter @jerryquijano.\nIf you found the reporting above valuable, please consider making a donation to support it. Your gift pays for everything you find on KUT.org. Thanks for donating today.}}
{{A sneak peek for the next Keeping Up With The Kardashians episode was shared on Thursday morning.\nThe clip filmed months ago showed Kim Kardashian coping with her husband Kanye West contracting the coronavirus.\nAlso in the teaser, Khloe is seen flirting with Tristan Thompson, and Kendall and Kylie Jenner make up after their physical fight.\nNew drama: A sneak peek for the next Keeping Up With The Kardashians episode was shared on Thursday morning\n'Kanye tested positive for COVID-19, so we can't really help out,' Kim could be heard saying during the sneak peek.\nShe was also spotted in the bathroom looking harried as she said: 'My kids will not leave me alone,' only for one of the children's voices to ring out in the background.\nThe aspiring lawyer shares four children with Kanye - daughters North, seven, and Chicago, two, and sons Saint, four, and Psalm, one.\nLast month Kanye told Forbes that he came down with coronavirus in February and described his symptoms: 'Chills, shaking in the bed, taking hot showers, looking at videos telling me what I’m supposed to do to get over it.'\nTrying to handle it: The clip filmed months ago showed Kim Kardashian coping with her husband Kanye West contracting the coronavirus\nOh, dear: She was also spotted in the bathroom looking harried as she said: 'My kids will not leave me alone,' only for one of the children's voices to ring out in the background\nWhat a year: In the months since the family's life has been full of drama including Kanye's failed campaign for the United States presidency\nIn the months since the family's life has been full of drama including Kanye's failed campaign for the United States presidency.\nKanye had a string of Twitter outbursts denouncing his wife and in-laws, and he and Kim eventually took the children to the Caribbean in what was reported as a make-or-break trip to save their marriage.\nMeanwhile in the new sneak peek Khloe Kardashian dished in a confessional: 'I'm just getting lonely and bored and I need someone to keep me company.'\nShe dressed a coccyx cushion up in sunglasses and introduced it as 'my new best friend' on FaceTime to her ex Tristan Thompson.\nStaying home: Meanwhile in the new sneak peek Khloe Kardashian dished in a confessional: 'I'm just getting lonely and bored and I need someone to keep me company'\nGoofing around: She dressed a coccyx cushion up in sunglasses and introduced it as 'my new best friend' on FaceTime to her ex Tristan Thompson\nTristan joked that it was 'like Castaway,' the movie in which Tom Hanks draws a face on a volleyball and names it Wilson while stranded alone on an island.\nKhloe, who shares her two-year-old daughter True with Tristan, left him last year after he kissed Kylie Jenner's best friend Jordyn Woods at a party.\nHowever they eventually went into self-isolation together with their daughter and have now rekindled their romance.\nHeartthrob: Tristan joked that it was 'like Castaway,' the movie in which Tom Hanks draws a face on a volleyball and names it Wilson while stranded alone on an island\nLove rat: Khloe, who shares her two-year-old daughter True with Tristan, left him last year after he kissed Kylie Jenner's best friend Jordyn Woods at a party, but they are back together\nBy the end of the new sneak peek viewers could see Kylie and Kendall Jenner beginning to make up after their physical fight earlier in the season.\nKylie ultimately FaceTimed Kendall and affectionately said hello, getting a smile in response that signaled their feud was coming to an end.\nIt emerged in September that Keeping Up With The Kardashians will come to an end after over a decade on air when it broadcasts its 20th season next year.\nMaking it work: By the end of the new sneak peek viewers could see Kylie and Kendall Jenner beginning to make up after their physical fight earlier in the season}}
{{Article content\nKINGSTON — With COVID-19 cases rising in the Kingston, Frontenac and Lennox and Addington region, public health reported 13 new cases on Thursday.\nAs the province approaches the end of the second week of a four-week lockdown, and seeing total COVID-19 cases reach 204,145 cases provincially, the total active cases in the Kingston region are at 56, with two people in the hospital intensive care unit and only six resolved cases.\nWe apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser. COVID-19 cases increasing two weeks into provincial lockdown Back to video\nThe Kingston region has reported an overall total of just over 600 cases, with 53 health-care workers included in those numbers and no deaths reported.}}
{{WASHINGTON (WOWK) – Three men have been charged in Federal Court in Washington D.C. connected with the riots at the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, Jan. 6.\nDerrick Evans, a recently elected member of the West Virginia House of Delegate, 35, was charged with one count of knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority and one count of violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol Grounds.\nOn Wednesday, Jan. 6, Evans allegedly streamed live to his Facebook page a video of himself joining and encouraging a crowd unlawfully entering the U.S. Capitol.\nIn the video, Evans is allegedly seen crossing the threshold of the doorway into the U.S. Capitol and shouting, “We’re in, we’re in! Derrick Evans is in the Capitol!”\nEvans was taken into custody Friday, Jan. 8.\nJacob Anthony Chansley, also known as Jake Angeli, of Arizona, was charged with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority, and with violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\nChansley allegedly entered the Capitol building dressed in horns, a bearskin headdress, red, white and blue face paint, shirtless, and tan pants. He also allegedly carried a spear, approximately 6 feet in length, with an American flag tied just below the blade.\nChansley was taken into custody today.\nAdam Johnson, 36, of Florida, was charged with one count of knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; one count of theft of government property; and one count of violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\nJohnson allegedly illegally entered the United States Capitol and removed the Speaker of the House’s lectern from where it had been stored on the House side of the Capitol building.\nJohnson was arrested Friday, Jan. 8 and is currently in custody.\nThese cases are being prosecuted by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia and investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office and the United States Capitol Police.\nAt this time, The FBI is looking for people who may have incited or promoted violence of any kind. Anyone with digital material or tips can call 1-800-CALL-FBI (800-225-5324) or submit images or videos on the FBI’s officials website.\nThe ATF and FBI also continue to urge the public to report suspected use of explosive devices, or violent, destructive acts associated with the recent unrest. Anyone with information can call 1-(888)-ATF-TIPS (1-888-283-8477), email or submit information anonymously via ReportIt.com.}}
{{SALISBURY – Cars wrapped around the block and beyond to get the county’s latest distribution of COVID-19 vaccines on Wednesday morning.\nThe vaccines were available to people 65 and over. People showed up early and waited hours to get their first dose.\nJackie and Chris Crane got in line at 5:45 a.m. and received vaccinations at about 10 a.m.\nChris said they wanted to show up early because they did not know how many vaccines the county had to distribute. Chris said the couple has been staying home since March. He lost his sister to COVID-19.\nJackie said there is only so much the county can do to distribute the vaccines. It had 800 doses of the Moderna vaccine to administer on Wednesday. The clinic started at 9:30 a.m. and had allocated all 800 doses just after noon.\nKaren and Jerry File showed up early, too. They brought food, expecting to wait hours in line. Jerry already received at the W.G. Hefner VA Medical Center already. Karen said it was “an experience.”\n“We don’t have nothing else to do,” Karen said, adding they still need to protect themselves even though they have both received the first dose\nThe vaccine schedule recommends getting two doses of the Moderna vaccine about a month apart for full inoculation.\nMary Devlin also arrived before 6 a.m. and waited more than four hours in line, but it was not as bad as she expected, going in prepared to wait seven hours for the dose. Devlin said she is a high-risk patient and it was worth the wait. For the most part, she’s been isolating at home.\nThe doses were administered with the help of volunteers, including Rowan-Salisbury Schools nurse Salena Poston, who serves Koontz and Faith elementary schools. Poston said she wanted to help slow down the pandemic and get the community on the right track. She hopes vaccination signals the eventual end of the pandemic.\n“Amen,” Poston said.\nShe said it is a privilege to administer the vaccines and plans to volunteer for more events.\nAfter people were given the injections, they pulled forward for an observation period. Observing someone after receiving a vaccination is standard practice to ensure someone can be treated if they have an adverse reaction.\nAmy Smith, public health education specialist with Rowan County Health Department, said the county can reach more people by holding mass clinics even though the lines are not the most convenient delivery for people receiving the vaccines.\nWhen vaccines are delivered, Smith said, varies week-to-week. Sometimes, the department does not know the day. The department has asked the state to send surplus vaccines to Rowan County.\nSmith said the department has shifted almost all of its regular programs to COVID-19. It has a list of volunteers including pharmacists and nurse practitioners it can use as it gets more vaccines.}}
{{FILE - This Jan. 12, 2021, file photo provided by the LA County Dept. of Medical Examiner-Coroner shows National Guard members assisting with processing COVID-19 deaths and placing them into temporary storage at LA County Medical Examiner-Coroner Office in Los Angeles in Los Angeles. More than 500 people are dying each day in California because of the coronavirus. The death toll has prompted state officials to send more refrigerated trailers to local governments to act as makeshift morgues. State officials said Friday they have helped distribute 98 refrigerated trailers to help county coroners store dead bodies. California reported 669 COVID-19 deaths, the second-highest daily death count, on Saturday, Jan. 16, and the nation's most populous county announced it had detected its first case of a more transmissible strain of the coronavirus. Public health authorities in Los Angeles County confirmed its first case of the variant of COVID-19 first detected in the United Kingdom. It was identified in a man who recently spent time in the county. (LA County Dept. of Medical Examiner-Coroner via AP, File) AP\nCalifornia reported a one-day record of 764 COVID-19 deaths on Friday but the rate of new infections is falling.\nThe deaths reported by the California Department of Public Health top the previous mark of 708 set on Jan. 8. In the last two days California has recorded 1,335 deaths and the state's overhaul total during the pandemic is nearing 36,000.\nHospitalizations and newly confirmed cases have been falling, however, and health officials are growing more optimistic that the worst of the latest surge is over.\nThe 23,024 new cases reported Friday are less than half the mid-December peak of nearly 54,000. In the last week the state averaged nearly 29,000 new cases per day, more than 6,000 fewer than the prior week.\nThe positivity rate for people being tested has dropped by 15% in the last week, which means fewer people will end up in hospitals. Hospitalizations have fallen below 20,000 statewide, a drop of more than 10% in two weeks.}}
{{News Trump supporters storm the capitol building during electoral college vote January 07, 2021 02:51 PM\nThousands of supporters of President Trump gathered in Washington, D.C., to reject the results of the Nov. 3 election. The group violently stormed the Capitol and pushed past security barriers.}}
{{Ireland announced a new three-week delay on Tuesday to the full reopening of bars and nightclubs, and further restricted travel after a doubling of COVID-19 infections left the country in what the government described as a "precarious situation." Ireland has reported an average of 46 cases per day over the past seven days, up from an average of 19 the previous week.\nBut it still has the 11th lowest rate of new infections of 32 European countries monitored by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, with nine infections per 100,000 people reported over the past 14 days. "We're in a precarious situation in our battle with the virus," Deputy Prime Minister Leo Varadkar told a news conference. "We have lost some ground but it is possible to reclaim it."\nBars operating as restaurants have been allowed to open since the end of June, but those serving just alcohol must remain closed for at least another three weeks to Aug. 31, Prime Minister Micheál Martin told reporters. "I wish that I was here to share better news but I'm not," said Martin.\nHe said he could not guarantee bars would reopen this year, adding: "We've got to achieve a reasonable equilibrium." The government has tasked the finance and spending ministers to look at additional funding for sectors likely to be impacted for a significant period of time, such as bars, the arts and entertainment sectors and aviation, Martin said.\nThe Licensed Vintners Association, a bar lobby group, said the decision to delay bar openings would be met with "fury and despair across the entire sector." The government removed Malta, Cyprus, Gibraltar, Monaco and San Marino from its 15-country travel Green List, meaning people arriving from all but 10 countries must now self-isolate for two weeks. It also left in place a 50-person limit for indoor gatherings and a 200-person limit for outdoor events.}}
{{The clinic, which is by appointment only and operated by Miami Valley Hospital, is open between 2 and 4 p.m. today, as well as 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. from Thursday through Saturday, Premier Health announced.\nAdditional clinics may be scheduled if Premier Health receives more vaccine supplies, the health care network stated in a release.}}
{{Supporters of U.S. President Donald Trump occupy the U.S. Capitol Building in Washington (Reuters Photo)\nThe US charged 55 people with crimes stemming from the siege of the U.S. Capitol and President Donald Trump’s actions ahead of the riot may be investigated by federal prosecutors.\nAsked whether the U.S. Attorney’s office would scrutinize the president’s role in inciting the storming of the Capitol, Michael Sherwin, the acting U.S. Attorney in Washington, said at a press conference that “all actors” are being looked at.\n“Anyone that had a role, and the evidence fits the elements of a crime, they’re going to be charged,” Sherwin said.\nTrump addressed a crowd Wednesday and urged his supporters to go the Capitol, saying they would “never take back our country with weakness.”\nThe violent mob then stormed the Capitol, charging past police barriers, smashing windows and sending lawmakers fleeing for safety. The riot forced members of Congress to temporarily abandon their formal certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s victory in the November election. The lawmakers returned and completed the certification once the building was secured.\nFive people died during or after the melee, including a U.S. Capitol Police officer.\n“The violence we saw yesterday at our nation’s capital was appalling, reprehensible and antithetical to the American way,” White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany said at a briefing Thursday. “We condemn it, the president and this administration, in the strongest possible terms.”\nOne man who was arrested near the Capitol with a semiautomatic rifle and 11 Molotov cocktails. Most of the others face charges like unlawful entry, though some were charged with more serious crimes like assault. More charges are expected in the coming weeks.\n“That’s a good start, but in no regard is this the end,” Sherwin said.\nHe added that “all charges” are on the table, including insurrection and rioting. “We’re not going to keep anything out of our arsenal.”\nAmong those charged was Mark Jefferson Leffingwell, who is accused of attacking an officer at the scene, according to a statement of facts filed in Washington federal court.\nLeffingwell “attempted to push past me and other officers,” Capitol Police Officer Daniel Amendola said in the statement. “When he was deterred from advancing further into the building, Leffingwell punched me repeatedly with a closed fist. I was struck in the helmet that I was wearing and in the chest.”\nAccording to the statement, Leffingwell later “spontaneously apologized” for striking the officer.\nExplained | The 25th Amendment that could be used to remove Donald Trump\nChristopher Michael Alberts was charged with possession of a 9-millimeter handgun and ammunition. According to court documents, an officer spotted a bulge on his right hip and notified two other officers.\nAlberts tried to run but got caught and officers recovered the gun, which had one round in the chamber and a full twelve-round capacity magazine, as well as a full spare magazine, a gas mask, a pocket knife, a ready-to-eat military meal and a first-aid kit, according to the court filing.\nHe told police he had the gun for personal protection and that he didn’t intend to use it to hurt anyone.\nPhotos and videos of rioters brawling with police and ransacking lawmakers’ officers were widely circulated on social media Wednesday afternoon. Legal experts say a wide variety of crimes — everything from vandalism to sedition — occurred during the riot and that prosecutors could charge offenders even if they walked away from the incident without being detained.\n“Yesterday, our nation watched in disbelief as a mob breached the Capitol Building and required federal and local law enforcement to help restore order,” Acting Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen said on Thursday. “The Department of Justice is committed to ensuring that those responsible for this attack on our Government and the rule of law face the full consequences of their actions under the law.”\nParticipants could be charged with the “willful injury of federal property,” as well as assaulting law enforcement officers and trespassing, legal experts said. Some could also face more serious charges, including sedition and insurrection, which would require proving an intent to disrupt or even overthrow the government.\nShortly after lawmakers certified the election results early Thursday, Trump said in a statement there would be an “orderly transition” of power to Biden on Jan. 20, noting that he continued to “disagree with the outcome of the election.”}}
{{TOPEKA, Kan. (AP) — Kansas lawmakers have been moving quickly on legislation that would extend the state’s COVID-19 emergency declaration before it expires on Jan. 26.\n“I’ve not seen, and I don’t think we’ve seen before, a bill that moved with such expediency,” said Sen. David Haley, D-Kansas City. “I daresay it is abnormal and it lends a certain question as to how fairly it can be deliberated and considered. This is a very crucial issue in terms of the public health.”\nThe temporary bills moving in the state Senate and House deal with COVID-19-related provisions that impact the coronavirus response, the Topeka Capital-Journal reported. Both have had public hearings and passed out of committee in the first week of the session.}}
{{OTTAWA, ON, Jan. 6, 2021 /CNW/ - The COVID-19 pandemic has created a global crisis that is having a significant impact on the air industry and all travellers.\nOTTAWA, ON, Jan. 6, 2021 /CNW/ - The COVID-19 pandemic has created a global crisis that is having a significant impact on the air industry and all travellers. The Government of Canada has multiple measures in place to protect the health and safety of Canadians, and to help prevent air travel from being a source of further introduction and spread of COVID-19 and new variants of the virus into Canada.\nToday, the Minister of Transport, the Honourable Marc Garneau, issued an Interim Order formalizing new COVID-19 testing requirements for all air travellers coming to Canada, and providing additional guidance to airline operators and the travelling public regarding the new pre-departure testing requirement that was announced on December 31. This Interim Order supports COVID-19 health requirements made by Canada's Minister of Health under the Quarantine Act.\nEffective midnight on January 7, 2021 ( 00:00 EST or 05:00 UCT), regardless of citizenship, all travellers five years of age or older must provide proof of a negative laboratory test result for COVID-19 to the airline prior to boarding a flight to Canada. The test must be performed using one of two types of COVID-19 tests-either a molecular polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or Loop-mediated Isothermal Amplification (LAMP)-and must be conducted within 72 hours of the traveller's scheduled departure to Canada.\nAll travellers coming to Canada must present this information at the time of boarding. Failure to do so will mean an automatic denial of boarding by the airline operating the flight to Canada.\nOnce travellers arrive in Canada, Canada Border Services officers will question and observe them for any indication that they may be ill. These travellers will be referred to Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) officials for further assessment, screening and questioning. Officers will apply great scrutiny to travellers' quarantine plans while ensuring that they are admissible to Canada. PHAC works closely with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and provincial law enforcement agencies to verify the compliance of returning travellers.\nAt the outset, there are time-limited flexibilities for travellers departing from some countries in recognition of the need for testing systems to adjust. Travellers departing from Saint Pierre et Miquelon are exempt from the requirement to show proof of a negative COVID-19 test until January 1, and travellers departing from Haiti, until January 21, 2021, but they are strongly encouraged to get a COVID-19 test once they arrive in Canada. Travellers departing from the Caribbean or South America can use tests conducted within 96 hours of departure (instead of 72 hours) until January 14, 2021.\nTravellers with planned flights to Canada are strongly encouraged to take note of this information, in order to be compliant with the requirements, and to avoid being refused boarding by the airline.\nAnyone who receives a negative test result and is authorized to enter Canada must still complete the full, mandatory 14-day quarantine, unless exempted under the Quarantine Act. Travellers are reminded that ongoing vigilance is still required. In addition to completing their full quarantine period, returning travellers must monitor for signs and symptoms of COVID-19 and submit information electronically through ArriveCAN. If symptoms develop, even if mild, or a positive test for COVID-19 is received once in Canada, travellers are advised to contact local public health authorities.\nAll existing restrictions to travel to Canada from the United States and other countries by foreign nationals remain in place. The Government of Canada continues to enforce and strengthen those measures as needed, and as the global situation evolves.\nQuotes\n"The COVID-19 pandemic is far from over. We need to continue to be vigilant, and we need to continue to take action to reduce the risks of spreading the virus by air travel. This new interim order will help protect Canadians and air travellers. We continue to assess public health risks, as we to work to limit the spread of COVID-19 in Canada."\nMinister of TransportThe Honourable Marc Garneau\n"Pre-departure testing is an added layer of protection to the strong measures we already have in place, such as mandatory 14-day quarantine. We still urge Canadians to avoid non-essential travel. Stay in Canada and follow public health guidelines to protect yourself, your loved ones, and your community. By doing this, we can all work together to save lives."\nMinister of HealthThe Honourable Patty Hajdu\n"These new measures do not replace any of the previous measures we have put in place to protect Canadians. All travellers must still quarantine for 14 days after they arrive unless explicitly exempt. We continue to strongly advise against travel of any kind, and if anyone doesn't follow the quarantine requirements, they could face severe penalties. The health and safety of Canadians is our top priority and should be the top priority of every Canadian."\nMinister of Public Safety and Emergency PreparednessThe Honourable Bill Blair\n"The decision to implement the pre-boarding negative testing measures was not made lightly. While we recognize its potential to cause inconvenience and frustration to Canadians abroad travelling back to Canada, we are doing what is necessary to help protect the health of all Canadians. The COVID-19 situation continues to be unpredictable and changes rapidly. We must also adapt rapidly."\nMinister of Foreign Affairs The Honourable François- Philippe Champagne\nAssociated Links\nSOURCE Transport Canada}}
{{“\nGlobal Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Market Dynamics\nThis QY Research report on Global Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio market aspires to serve as a requisite guide and ready-to-refer handbook to assist readers in identifying major growth influencers, prevalent opportunities as well as tried and tested business techniques that collectively lead to optimistic growth output, despite challenges and unprecedented events. Request a PDF Sample Copy of this report @ https://www.orbisresearch.com/contacts/request-sample/5166766?utm_source=G0vind The report has included significant details about various facets covering manufacturer activities to offset the challenges prevalent during COVID-19. This report by QY Research further sheds light on a slew of factors presented as under: Drivers and Influencers: This particular segment of the report specifically addresses and discusses elements that directly leverage high potential growth in the global Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio market Limitations and Restraints: In this section, readers are presented with decisive understanding on various growth deterrents as well as barriers prevalent across regions, with country-specific derivation, conclude research professionals at QY Research. Opportunities: A clear reference of numerous growth opportunities as well as plausible growth enablers that collectively induce a rewarding growth trail. Top Manufacturers: Cubic Corporation\nIBM Corporation\nXerox Corporation\nSAP\nSpace-Time Insight\nPredikto Inc\nTSS-Transport Simulation Systems\nCaliper Corporation\nTiger Analyticsand\nT-Systems\nCyient-Insights Place a Direct Purchase order @ https://www.orbisresearch.com/contact/purchase-single-user/5166766?utm_source=G0vind Type & Application based Analysis: Global Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Market\nFurther in the subsequent sections of the report, this elaborate research presentation by QY Research on global Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio market also portrays minute details in terms of workability and diverse applicability of the various products, mimicking end-user segment needs. This dedicated section of the report presents in-depth analysis of the market that identifies the market into a broad category of product types developed and commercialized in terms of user needs and convenience. Types: On-Premise\nCloud-based Applications: Roadways\nRailways\nAirways\nSeaways Gauging Region-wise Growth: Global Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Market\nâ€¢ Furthermore in the report by QY Research, with significant advances in regional domain, the report exhibits decisive information and thorough understanding on a range of regional domains in the aforementioned Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio market, illustrating inputs on crucial growth hubs comprising marketing strategies that collectively lead to high end growth and steady revenue generation in the global Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio market.\nâ€¢ Additionally, QY Research report also portrays a clear outlook of country-specific events and developments that have also been minutely examined in the report to induce clear understanding amongst report readers and aspiring new entrants besides optimally influencing revenue generation business discretion amongst lead players in the global Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio market. Browse the complete report @ https://www.orbisresearch.com/reports/index/global-and-united-states-transportation-predictive-analytics-and-simulatio-market-size-status-and-forecast-2020-2026?utm_source=G0vind\nReport Offerings in a Gist:\no Considering utmost reader convenience and favorable business discretion, this thoughtful documentation on Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio market attempts to arrange the various marketing strategies and techniques in a sectional representation, encompassing various industry-wise fragments and sectorial representation\no The report is systematically arranged in a top-bottom investigative pattern to highlight factors such as development impetus, untapped opportunities as well as clientele, thus echoing reader expectations from the report.\nTable of Content:\nChapter One: Report Overview\n1.1 Study Scope\n1.2 Market Analysis by Type\n1.2.1 Global Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Market Size Growth Rate by Type: 2020 VS 2026\n1.2.2 Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio APP\n1.2.3 Others\n1.3 Market by Application\n1.3.1 Global Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Market Share by Application: 2020 VS 2026\n1.3.2 Male\n1.3.3 Female\n1.4 Study Objectives\n1.5 Years Considered\nChapter Two: Global Growth Trends\n2.1 Global Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Market Perspective (2015-2026)\n2.2 Global Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Growth Trends by Regions\n2.2.1 Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Market Size by Regions: 2015 VS 2020 VS 2026\n2.2.2 Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Historic Market Share by Regions (2015-2020)\n2.2.3 Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Forecasted Market Size by Regions (2021-2026)\n2.3 Industry Trends and Growth Strategy\n2.3.1 Market Trends\n2.3.2 Market Drivers\n2.3.3 Market Challenges\n2.3.4 Market Restraints\nChapter Three: Competition Landscape by Key Players\n3.1 Global Top Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Players by Market Size\n3.1.1 Global Top Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Players by Revenue (2015-2020)\n3.1.2 Global Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Revenue Market Share by Players (2015-2020)\n3.2 Global Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Market Share by Company Type (Tier 1, Tier Chapter Two: and Tier 3)\n3.3 Players Covered: Ranking by Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Revenue\n3.4 Global Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Market Concentration Ratio\n3.4.1 Global Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Market Concentration Ratio (CRChapter Five: and HHI)\n3.4.2 Global Top Chapter Ten: and Top 5 Companies by Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Revenue in 2019\n3.5 Key Players Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Area Served\n3.6 Key Players Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Product Solution and Service\n3.7 Date of Enter into Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Market\n3.8 Mergers & Acquisitions, Expansion Plans\nChapter Four: Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Breakdown Data by Type (2015-2026)\n4.1 Global Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Historic Market Size by Type (2015-2020)\n4.2 Global Transportation Predictive Analytics And Simulatio Forecasted Market Size by Type (2021-2026)\nContinuedâ€¦..\nAbout Us :\nOrbis Research (orbisresearch.com) is a single point aid for all your market research requirements. We have vast database of reports from the leading publishers and authors across the globe. We specialize in delivering customized reports as per the requirements of our clients. We have complete information about our publishers and hence are sure about the accuracy of the industries and verticals of their specialization. This helps our clients to map their needs and we produce the perfect required market research study for our clients.\nContact Us :}}
{{ALBANY, N.Y. (NEWS10) — Albany County Sheriff Craig Apple is reporting a severe outbreak of COVID-19 at the correctional facility and rehabilitative service center.\n“I’m up to 22 staff that are out, that are positive,” Apple told NEWS10, “I’m up to 51 inmates that are positive, and we have 261 currently quarantined in the facility.”\nThat’s a problem, according to Sheriff Apple. The cases are spread out all over the jail, and they’re running out of space. The hope is that some will finish quarantine soon and general population can begin to merge again. But a number of inmates also serve as kitchen and other duty staff.\n“They’ve done a great job. They did a great job for 10 and a half months keeping it out of there,” Apple said, “but we knew all along, similar to a nursing home and congregate setting, once it’s in it’s going to be an issue.”\nIt’s an issue with new arrivals, too. Cases are popping up in the quarantine tier of the jail where new inmates start out.\nCorrections officers are included in phase 1B of vaccine distribution in New York State, but those appointments are hard to come by. Apple says some officers got turned away from vaccinations because they stated they had exposure to COVID while working at the jail. But Apple says they failed to mention that proper PPE was worn in those cases, so transmission was unlikely.\n“We’re going to try and get them signed up, and hopefully the log jam with the vaccines will open up soon,” Apple said.\nApple says officers and civilian workers are disinfecting all day, and he has been working with the district attorney and courts to get low-level inmates released. He says they have released 12 so far, adding that those released are tested first to make sure they are not bringing COVID-19 out on the street. Apple says movement in the facility is restricted, and medical staff is observing those with symptoms.}}
{{Canterbury have been cleared to resume NRL training after a coronavirus test for club legend Terry Lamb returned negative on Friday.\nJeremy Marshall-King celebrates Source: Getty\nThe Bulldogs breached the league's biosecurity protocols on Thursday after Lamb was photographed shaking hands with five-eighth Kieran Foran.\nThe NRL side was banned from gathering on Friday morning as Lamb, who isn't a part of their 50-person bubble, underwent a COVID-19 examination.\nHe was officially given a clean bill of health on Friday evening, paving the way for the team to resume preparations for Monday's clash with St George Illawarra.\nLamb apologised to the club and the NRL in a statement.\n"I was over excited about getting to Belmore again and wanting to wish Kieran all the best for his 200th game and in doing so I breached the protocols by shaking the hands of several players to wish them all the best," he said.\n"Although I was not standing in the restricted zone, I shouldn't have contacted players in the bubble, but in my over excitement I overstepped the mark and I apologise for that."\nIt is understood league central is still considering whether to sanction the Bulldogs for breaching the health guidelines.\nNo one from outside club bubbles, including media and other club stuff, are allowed to enter clean zones set up for registered players and staff.\n"Yesterday's breach was a case of Terry making a mistake in trying to wish players all the best and breaking the protocols set out around the bubble," Bulldogs chief executive Andrew Hill said.}}
{{PINELLAS COUNTY, Fla. (WFLA) — A Florida man seen carrying a lectern through the U.S. Capitol during a riot Wednesday has been arrested, according to the Pinellas County Sheriff’s Office inmate search.\nThe man smiling and waving at the camera was identified as 36-year-old Adam Johnson of Parrish in Manatee County near Tampa. WFLA learned Johnson is married to a physician and is a father of five.\nThe arrest report says Johnson was booked in the Pinellas County Jail around 9 p.m. Friday. He remains there on a US Marshal warrant.\nThe Getty photograph from Wednesday shows Johnson in a red, white, and blue Trump beanie carrying what is believed to be the lectern of the U.S. Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi.\nJohnson is a registered voter in Manatee County with no party affiliation. The supervisor of elections in Manatee County says Johnson voted in two general elections — 2004 and 2020.\nNo one answered the door when WFLA stopped by his home Friday. In the early afternoon, two men put on face masks before knocking and entering Johnson’s house.\nAllan Mestel is acquaintances with Johnson and notified the FBI after recognizing Johnson in the photo.\n“I felt a little disassociated for a minute. It was almost like, it was surreal. I mean it was surreal. I wasn’t surprised, but I was shocked. Mestel adding. “Couldn’t believe it, the fact that I recognize somebody from our hometown, was, I was floored.”\nWFLA spoke with a criminal law expert about the charges someone who charged the Capitol could be facing.\n“These are burglars, they are insurrectionists, they have committed thefts and armed offenses, threatened congress members, they are looking at the type of charges that could get them decades if not the remainder of their life in prison,” said Jeffrey Swartz.\nOn Thursday, the FBI appealed for information from the public to help them identify more protesters who engaged in the rioting.}}
{{The U.S. added over one million COVID-19 cases from Tuesday through Saturday, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.\nIt took nearly 100 days before the U.S. had one million COVID-19 cases after initial cases started appearing on Jan. 20, CNN reported Sunday. As of Sunday morning, there were 281,234 COVID-19 deaths and 14,592,629 virus cases, according to Johns Hopkins University. (RELATED: Biden Calls On Nation To Wear A Mask For His First 100 days In Office-Asks Fauci To Be Chief Medical Advisor)\nExperts say the outlook will probably become worse with hospitals reaching capacity as a result of Thanksgiving travel and get-togethers, CNN reported.\n“Every single day, thousands more people are getting this virus, and we know that means that in a few days, in a week, hundreds of people are going to be coming to the hospital and hundreds of people are going to die,” Dr. Shirlee Xie, associate director of hospital medicine for Hennepin Healthcare in Minneapolis, told CNN. Her voice broke with emotion as she spoke, according to CNN.\nOur daily update is published. States reported 2.2 million tests, 211k cases, and 2,445 deaths. There are 101,190 people currently hospitalized with COVID-19 in the US. pic.twitter.com/SuyBBb001H — The COVID Tracking Project (@COVID19Tracking) December 6, 2020\n“I think that sometimes when you hear statistics like that, you become numb to what those numbers mean,” Xie said. “But for us, the people that are taking care of these patients, every single number is somebody that we have to look at and say, ‘I’m sorry, there’s nothing more I can do for you.'”\nNovember saw a surge of hospitalizations and deaths, and over 200,000 coronavirus cases were reported within a 24 hour span on Dec.2, CNN reported. November also saw a surge in daily total COVID-19 cases and, for the first time, the 100,000 cases in a single day.\nContent created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org.}}
{{SUNRISE, FLA. (WSVN) - As more seniors over the age of 65 try to schedule appointments to get the COVID-19 vaccine, the demand continues to be met with problems.\nOn Tuesday, Markham Park in Sunrise joined Vista View Park and Tradewinds Park as a COVID-19 vaccine distribution site in Broward County.\nMemorial Healthcare System and Jackson Healthcare System are offering appointments for seniors who want to get vaccinated.\nJackson Health has an online appointment system where anyone 65 years of age or older can sign up and make an appointment.\nMemorial Healthcare System has also extended COVID-19 vaccinations to seniors 65 and older. Those who have been a previous patient at a Memorial facility can schedule an appointment through the MyChart portal.\nSeniors 65 and older who have not been a Memorial patient previously and want to get the Pfizer vaccine can call 954-276-4340 Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.\nNeddie Lynn and her husband were among some of the first seniors at Markham Park to get their dose of the COVID-19 vaccine.\n“I feel very comfortable doing it,” said Lynn. “We have an appointment today. Yes, we do. It was a struggle, but we were able to use the internet and make it through the internet.”\nVaccination sites across Broward County saw long lines once again as some seniors showed up hours before their scheduled appointment times to make sure they would get the vaccine.\nThe Florida Department of Health of Broward website was inundated with people over the age of 65 hoping to get the vaccine early on in the rollout process.\n“The process was extremely difficult,” said Sam Landol.\n“I think they need to fix their technology; it’s what needs to be done,” said Lynn.\nSome individuals who were able to make an appointment on the website still were worried they wouldn’t get the vaccine.\n“They confirmed me on the screen but [I] never received the email, so I’m hoping that they have a way of being able to locate that here,” said Landol.\nThe Kings Point retirement community in Tamarac started offering the vaccine to its residents on Tuesday morning.\nWhile Broward’s Department of Health temporarily stops taking appointments, seniors can still get the vaccine through Jackson Health and Memorial Heathcare.\n“We feel, within two to three weeks, that we can gear this thing up to somewhere around the 60,000 to 75,000 patients a week,” Jackson Health CEO Carlos Migoya said. “If we’re able to do that, we’d be able to vaccinate approximately 60% of the over-65 in Miami-Dade County, which happens to be a total of 465,000 people, sometime by the end of January, early week of February.”\nHowever, some people are reporting Jackson Health’s website will now allow a time or date for an appointment to be selected.\nFor more information on vaccination sites in South Florida, click here.\nCopyright 2020 Sunbeam Television Corp. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.}}
{{France registered a further 23,292 new confirmed COVID-19 cases and 649 more deaths from the virus in the last 24 hours, according to data from the country's health ministry on Friday.\nFrance's overall COVID-19 death toll stands at 72,647 - the seventh biggest COVID-19 death toll in the world.\nAlso Read: France's hopes lift as US freezes tariffs over tech tax\n(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)}}
{{WASHINGTON — House Speaker Nancy Pelosi called for the chief of the Capitol Police to step down on Thursday after President Donald Trump’s supporters were able to breach the Capitol the day before.\nPelosi joined a growing chorus of lawmakers from both parties who have criticized the law enforcement preparation and response to Wednesday’s riot, which forced members of Congress to evacuate to a secure location for hours. Both the House and Senate announced earlier Thursday that they will open an investigation into the Capitol Police and other agencies’ mishandling of the attempted coup, which saw waves of insurrectionists push past too small numbers of law enforcement officers and take over the Capitol complex. More than 50 Capitol Police officers were injured in the fray, according to an agency spokesperson, and one woman was shot and killed.\nPelosi said that even by Thursday afternoon she still had not heard from Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund about the agency’s failures and that he must resign.\n“There was a failure of leadership at the top… Mr. Sund, he hasn’t even called us,” she told reporters.\nMembers of Congress have criticized the Capitol Police and other law enforcement agencies for not preparing for the riots, which followed a rally announced by Trump in December to coincide with the day Congress would certify his election loss. The president’s most extreme supporters have been posting publicly for weeks about their intentions to storm the Capitol, bring guns into Washington, and generally cause chaos and violence.\n“It goes beyond the Capitol Police," Pelosi said Thursday. "It goes to the FBI. What was the shortcoming in their intelligence that they provided? It goes to the Department of Defense. How long did it take for them to respond or anticipate the need of the National Guard?”\nPelosi also announced that House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving, who is the chief law enforcement officer for the House and whose job it is to protect its members, plans to submit his resignation. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer also told Politico Thursday that if Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger has not resigned by the time Democrats take control of the Senate on Jan. 20, he will fire him.\nCapitol Police officers appeared to be woefully understaffed and were overwhelmed by crowds of Trump’s supporters. Videos show the mob knocking over gates guarded by just a handful of officers to get on to the Capitol grounds, where the crowds continued to push police back, and finally made their way inside. There’s also video of at least one Capitol Police officer taking a selfie with the rioters inside the Capitol.}}
{{(Newser) – A lost sense of smell is one of the odder symptoms of COVID-19. How often does it really happen? A new study published in the Journal of Internal Medicine puts some numbers to it. The study is based on a review of 2,581 patients seen at 18 hospitals in Europe, according to a press release. Those with severe to critical cases reported the symptom infrequently: just 6.9% of the time. Ditto moderate cases, at 4.5%. But the lion's share of those with mild cases experienced it—85.9%. And it stuck around. The symptom lasted 21.6 days on average, though 24.1% of patients "did not subjectively recover olfaction 60 days after the onset of the dysfunction," per the study.\nstory continues below\nIn addition to the self-reported data, the study considered objective clinical evaluations among a subset of 233 patients, which also found olfactory dysfunction was more prevalent in mild cases. The study authors hypothesize that increased prevalence is due to differences in immune responses. Their takeaway: "The high prevalence ... supports the need for primary care, ear, nose and throat (ENT) and neurology physicians to be able to counsel patients regarding the likelihood of recovery, and to identify those at risk of persistent OD." NBC News has a clear explainer of why experts think smell is affected to begin with: It relates to the cells that help direct neurons to the brain when we smell something; a receptor known as ACE2 covers those cells, and ACE2 is what COVID-19 goes after. And "there is no guarantee that those nerve connections will ever find their way back to their normal pathways." (Read more COVID-19 stories.)}}
{{Jeremih was released from the hospital on Friday after receiving treatment for COVID-19, according to ABC7 Chicago.\n“First and foremost I would like to thank God and the incredible team of doctors and nurses at Northwestern Hospital for saving my life. I will be forever grateful,” Jeremih said in a statement to ABC7 Chicago. “I would also like to thank my family and friends for all their prayers and well wishes. I’m overwhelmed with gratitude.”\nThe Chicago R&B artist also extended a “special thanks” to Chance the Rapper, 50 Cent and Diddy “for their love and support.”\n“I’m getting stronger everyday, and look forward to spending time with my sons. I would also like to thank all my fans, and people all over the world who have prayed for me,” Jeremih’s statement said.\nAlso Read: Kristen Stewart Was The Only Attendee at Chanel's Covid Fashion Show\nThe 33-year-old “Don’t Tell ‘Em” singer had been in the ICU and on a ventilator last month due to COVID-19. He was transferred out of the ICU two weeks ago but remained in the hospital to continue his recovery.\nAt the time, the artist’s family warned others to take the pandemic seriously.\n“His family would like to remind the world that COVID-19 is real and not to be taken lightly,” the family said in a statement to CNN. “It’s important for people infected to quarantine and let their families and friends know ASAP. There’s no shame in contracting COVID-19, and people that have it need to be responsible and considerate of others.”}}
{{EMBED >More News Videos A massive explosion shook Lebanon's capital Beirut on Tuesday, wounding a number of people and causing widespread damage.\nEMBED >More News Videos Video shot from a distance shows the aftermath of an explosion in Beirut on Aug. 4.\nBEIRUT -- A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. At least 25 people were killed and 2,500 injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.Hours later, ambulances still carried away the wounded as army helicopters helped battle fires raging at the port.The sudden devastation overwhelmed a country already struggling with both the coronavirus pandemic and an economic crisis: Beirut hospitals quickly filled beyond capacity, pleading for blood supplies and generators to keep their lights on.The cause of the blast, which sparked fires, overturned cars and blew out windows and doors, was not immediately known.Abbas Ibrahim, chief of Lebanese General Security, said it might have been caused by highly explosive material that was confiscated from a ship some time ago and stored at the port. Local television channel LBC said the material was sodium nitrate.Witnesses reported seeing a strange orange-colored cloud over the site after the explosion. Orange clouds of toxic nitrogen dioxide gas often accompany an explosion involving nitrates.An Israeli government official said Israel "had nothing to do" with the blast. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter with the media. Israeli officials usually do not comment on "foreign reports."The blast was stunning even for a city that has seen civil war, suicide bombings and bombardment by Israel. It could be heard and felt as far away as Cyprus, more than 200 kilometers (180 miles) across the Mediterranean."It was a real horror show. I haven't seen anything like that since the days of the (civil) war," said Marwan Ramadan, who was about 500 meters (yards) from the port and was knocked off his feet by the force of the explosion.Health Minister Hassan Hamad said the preliminary toll was 25 dead and more than 2,500 wounded. Emergency teams streamed in from across Lebanon to help, and injured had to be taken to hospitals outside the capital.Some of those injured lay on the ground at the port, Associated Press staff at the scene said. A civil defense official said there were still bodies inside the port, many under debris.Beirut's governor, Marwan Abboud, broke into tears as he toured the site, saying, "Beirut is a devastated city."Initially, video taken by residents showed a fire raging at the port, sending up a giant column of smoke, illuminated by flashes of what appear to be fireworks. Local TV stations reported that a fireworks warehouse was involved.The fire then appeared to catch at a nearby building, triggering a more massive explosion, sending up a mushroom cloud and a shock wave.Charbel Haj, who works at the port, said it started as small explosions like firecrackers. Then, he said, he was thrown off his feet by the huge blast. His clothes were torn.Miles from the port, building facades were shredded, balconies were knocked down and windows shattered. Streets were covered with glass and bricks and lined with wrecked cars. Motorcyclists picked their way through traffic, carrying the injured.One woman covered in blood from the waist up walked down a trashed street while talking furiously on her phone. On another street, a woman with a bloodied face looked distraught, staggering through traffic with two friends at her side."This country is cursed," a young man passing by muttered.The blast came at a time when Lebanon's economy is facing collapse from the financial crisis and the coronavirus restrictions. Many have lost jobs, while the worth of their savings has evaporated as the currency has plunged in value against the dollar. The result has thrown many into poverty.It also occurred amid rising tensions between Israel and the militant Hezbollah group along Lebanon's southern border.The explosion was reminiscent of massive blasts during Lebanon's civil war and took place only three days before a U.N.-backed tribunal was set to give its verdict in the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in a truck bombing more than 15 years ago. That explosion, with a ton of explosives, was felt miles away, just like Tuesday's explosion.Several of Beirut's hospitals were damaged in the blast. Roum Hospital put out a call for people to bring it spare generators to keep its electricity going as it evacuated patients because of heavy damage.Outside the St. George University Hospital in Beirut's Achrafieh neighborhood, people with various injuries arrived in ambulances, in cars and on foot. The explosion had caused major damage inside the building and knocked out the electricity at the hospital. Dozens of injured were being treated on the spot on the street outside, on stretchers and wheelchairs."This is a catastrophe we have on our hands," said one doctor, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to make press statements.}}
{{A new Informative Report on the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security Market was recently published by Marketresearch.biz and added to its extensive database for making better strategic business decisions. It uses several proven analysis techniques such as primary and secondary research methods to collect data from multiple sources. It includes an in-depth analysis of the global segments and sub-segments of the market that contributes to understanding the current status of the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security market. In expanding, some key graphical display techniques, such as charts, graphs, charts, and pictures, are used to help users understand. In addition, it gives aggregated data on different industry outlooks such as global market shares, drivers, restraints, recent innovative trends, and challenges ahead of the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security market.\nRequest for Sample Copy of Report to get more information about the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security market: Download Sample report\nThe Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security market has a blended presence of major players and new entrants, who have made the market even more competitive. Therefore, many business monsters have been forced to adopt several strategic moves to keep a competitive benefit. These moves include purchase, consolidation, product launch, collaboration, change, and other systems. The report includes key players in various regions and the ways these companies are trying to increase their global footprint. The research also covers the regional improvements and chart trends that can impact the global market in the forecast year 2021-2030.\nImpact of Covid-19:\nAt the beginning of 2020, COVID-19 disease started to circulate around the globe, millions of people globally were infected with COVID-19 disease, and larger countries around the world have implemented measure bans and work stoppage orders. Except for the medical supplies and life support products industries, most industries have been greatly impacted, and the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security have also been greatly affected.\nThis intelligence and 2030 forecasts the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security report further exhibit a pattern of analyzing previous data sources gathered from reliable sources and sets a presented growth trajectory for the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security market. The report also concentrates on comprehensive market revenue streams along with increase patterns, analytics directed on market trends, and the overall volume of the market. Moreover, the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security report describes the market division based on various parameters and attributes that are based on geographical distribution, product types, applications, etc. The market segmentation clarifies further regional distribution for the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security market, business trends, potential revenue sources, and upcoming market opportunities.\nKey Characters and Trends in the Market:\nThe study presents the market overview involving definition, synopsis, classifications, and applications. It further includes the in-depth evaluation of numerous factors that can possibly drive or stop the growth of the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security Market. Additionally, it involves the opportunities and risks for the global market during the predicted timeline. The report also comprises the latest innovation, technological improvements, and key events in the market on a regional and global level together with the likely trends affecting the expansion of the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security Market.\nThe following Major Key Players:\nMcAfee, Inc., Kaspersky Lab ZAO, Symantec Corporation, AVG Technologies, Check Point Software Technologies Ltd., CA Technologies, IBM Corp., Cisco Systems Inc, Panda Security, Sophos Ltd.\nBy Segmentation:\nGlobal telecom endpoint security market segmentation by service: Managed Services, Consulting, Training and Support. Global telecom endpoint security market segmentation by deployment type: Cloud, On-Premises. Global telecom endpoint security market segmentation by application: Government & Defence, Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance (BFSI), IT and Telecom, Healthcare, Retail, Transportation, Energy and Utilities, Manufacturing, Education\nThe Key points of the report:\n1. The report bestows a primary summary of the industry including its meaning, objectives, and manufacturing technology.\n2. The report investigates the global and important enterprise players in detail. In this part, the report exhibits the company outline, product specs, capacity, production value, and 2021-2030 market shares for each organization.\n3. Through the demographic analysis, the report describes the global and Total market of the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security industry including capacity, production value, cost/profit, supply/demand, and import/export.\n4. The Report then estimates 2021-2030 market expansion trends of the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security industry. Analysis of upstream raw elements, downstream demand and modern market dynamics is also carried out.\n5. The report makes some important proposals for a new project of the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security Industry before evaluating its feasibility.\nKey questions answered in this research study:\n1. What is the global production, consumption value of the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security Market?\n2. Who are the global key manufacturers of the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security Market?\n3. What is the market share value of each application?\n4. Economic impact on the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security Market and development trend of the market.\n5. What will be the market size and the growth rate be in 2030?\n6. What are the key factors driving the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security Market?\n7. What are the key market trends affecting the growth of the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security Market?\n8. What are the challenges to market germination?\n9. What are the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security Market opportunities and threats faced by the vendors in the market?\nTOC (Table of Content)\n1. Market Overview.\n1.1 Market Analysis, Objective, Business Strategies, and Impact of Covid-19.\n2. The Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security Sample Reports.\n2.1 Statistics and Market estimates.\n3. Major Key Players.\n4. Segmentations.\n5. Key Characters and Trends.\n6. Key points of the report.\n6.1 global key manufacturers of the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security Market.\n6.2 Forecast assessed based on Market.\n7. Key questions answered in this research study.\n7.1 Economic impact on the Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security Market.\n7.2 The Post Covid-19 Update on Global Telecom Endpoint Security Market opportunities and threats.\nRead more by clicking on the below link…..\nGet the full TOC and get insights into the report\nContact:\nMr. Benni Johnson (inquiry@marketresearch.biz)\nMarketResearch.Biz (Powered By Prudour Pvt. Ltd.)\n420 Lexington Avenue, Suite 300\nNew York City, NY 10170,\nUnited States\nTel: +1 (347) 796-4335\nWebsite: https://marketresearch.biz\nDo you have any special requirement, get a customized report: Customized report\nFor more marketing blogs: https://mrfactors.com}}
{{In this coronavirus pandemic season, Nelson Chamisa is as good as the politics he plays, meaning he either shapes up or seals his own fate to political doom just like US President Donald Trump did.\nZimbabweans are once again faced with the reality of the pain, sorrow and tears that come with Covid-19, in just over a few days, known people or friends, have either died, or have tested positive to the virus.\nWe are trying to imagine a Zimbabwe whose politicians are compassionate to our suffering. Imagine just for this once, a country in which the Coronavirus is not a tool to score political points.\nWe are imagining a country in which politicians give citizens reprieve or rest from the incessant political bickering, which has been an emotionally exhausting and draining process.\nThe strain and anxiety from the pandemic is in itself enough, meaning that we have to be spared in this season from any further emotional bludgeoning by power hungry politicians.\nWoefully disheartening is in the insanity that some would seemingly harbour a secret wish for the pandemic to further escalate, as a self-fulling prophecy, which proves that they are the naturally anointed leaders who could have saved tormented Zimbabweans, from this evil pandemic causing chaos everywhere.\nWe have suffered enough, the pain and trauma are real, necessitating empathetic, compassionate leaders, whose responses to the pandemic are sensitive, full of love and care. Responses that unite us as humanity, give hope, above all saves lives.\nWe have reached full capacity to take anymore pain.\nOne just has to rewind this tape a bit to understand how playing politics with people’s lives can result in painfully lethal consequences.\nI argue here that, this kind of retrogressive politics has resulted in the high fatality rates suffered in the United Kingdom (UK) now at over 75,000, with a high record of 58,784 new cases just last Monday alone – according reports this is a result of the fast-spreading new strain of the Coronvirus.\nMeanwhile, in the US there are more than 20.7million confirmed cases and 353,000 fatalities.\nConsequently, as I have argued before, the machismo leaders in these countries, were more concerned with power retention, rationale science leading to procrastination and a resulting senseless loss of lives, black women or minorities suffering the most.\nA lot of the measures Johnson is taking now could have been taken months ago.\nBefore I even get far with Chamisa’s response, I tried to find what his shadow minister for health (name?) has been offering as an alternative in response to the pandemic, to both government, citizens and even their party supporters, I found nothing.\nMore intriguing as I argue further, is that, is it a mere coincidence that Mbare an apparent MDC-Alliance stronghold, recorded the highest number of Covidiots, over the festive season, who in their hundreds attended against all wisdom a New Year’s eve super spreader crossover bash.\nThis is exactly what is problematic with patriarchal models of power, rooted in neo-liberal thinking, they are more about power and playing to the gallery of market forces and in our instance donors too, devoid of empathy or reason.\nI don’t write in a vacuum, but with a bigger picture in mind.\nTake for instance, countries that did well in responding to Covid-19, which include Belgium, never mind how deeply polarised the politics is – that is the whole point I attempt to make.\nThe first reaction to the imminent danger posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, when the country became a hot spot in Europe, this was after failing to form a government for months, a result of the never ending bickering among the political parties, the pandemic jolted them into action.\nIn the split of a second, the first female Prime Minister of Belgium was elected, backed by all the opposition political parties, with a clear mandate to handle the pandemic.\nToday, former Prime Minister, Sophie Wilmès is counted among the global leaders, who rose to the challenge of the pandemic, building resilience and mitigating its negative impact.\nIn Chamisa’s instance masses are only as important as they are vehicles for accessing power and retaining it. Not educating or giving supporters proper information on Covid-19 and its dangers, has nothing to do with President Mnangagwa going on leave, it has nothing to do with Harvest House being taken.\nIt absolutely has nothing to do with the MDC-T camp and its own internal contradictions.\nIt has everything to do with what you really care for.\nUp to yesterday Trump remained fixated on the Presidential election, oblivious to the incredible pain and suffering around him.\nA response to the Covid-19 pandemic should now be less political, meaning it is time for us as a nation to unite and fight, save ourselves. Politics of doom and gloom are not going to benefit any particular political party.\nA ruling party is at times as good as the party opposing it. So Killer Zivhu will have kodak moments holding a ventilator just to rub it into our sorry faces.\nChamisa misses the point that this is no longer about him and his unsatiable quest for the State-House, but, about Zimbabweans and how as a nation, we put aside our differences, unite and fight for survival.\nSurviving future generations will judge were each person stood on this day.\nBy failing to put the nation first in response to the pandemic, Chamisa is just digging himself in, like Trump into a political hell hole, from which he will have difficulty to climb out.\n——–\nGrace Kwinjeh is a journalist based in the Americas. She can be contacted on Twitter @gracekwinjeh or Facebook Grace Kwinjeh}}
{{The auto industry is fending off disruption from COVID-19 again.\nFord confirmed Friday that customer delivery of its all-new Bronco will be delayed.\n"The all-new Bronco two-door and four-door customer deliveries will begin in the summer rather than the spring due to COVID-related challenges our suppliers are experiencing," Jiyan Cadiz, Bronco communications manager, told the Free Press, part of the USA TODAY Network.\n"Reservation holders will be notified their orders will now be starting in mid-January instead of Monday, Dec. 7," he said. "Reservation holders now have until March 19 to finalize their dealer selection, place their order and agree to the selling price."\nCar recall: Kia recalling nearly 295,000 vehicles due to engine fire risk, including select Sorento, Soul SUVs\nIs the car owner's manual history?: 2021 Ford F-150 ditches traditional paper copy\nThat means, specifically, reservations may go to the dealer they've chosen and start officially choosing specifications of the Bronco they want and putting deposits down. Right now, reservations have been placed with $100 deposits only.\nCadiz said the Sasquatch package with a manual transmission will now move to a 2022 model year rather than a 2021 model year. It was already planned for later in the year but now it's pushed back.\nThere is no specific timing on delivery of the manual transmission at this time.\nA 2021 Ford Bronco four-door follows a Bronco two-door around the course during the 2020 Bronco Day event at the soon-to-be-opening Holly Oaks Off-road Park in Holly, Mich. Holly, Michigan on August 11, 2020. The media were driven around in a variety of 2021 Ford Broncos during the event.\nDisappointing delay\nFord and its Bronco fans have been counting the minutes until delivery.\n"Look, from the day that Ford said, 'We’re bringing the Bronco back,' the world went nuts. They delivered a vehicle that looks terrific and the world went nuts again. They've got all these orders, very high expectations and now, delay," said John McElroy, host of "Autoline After Hours" and veteran industry observer.\nFord declined to comment on whether the supply chain problems would impact other launches or production in general. Ford also declined to say what part of the supply chain was disrupted as it related to Bronco.\nStory continues\n"This is total deflation. It's going to be disappointing for everybody. They’re going to get the revenue anyway (at Ford), but it sure would be nice to start booking it right now," McElroy said. "And if it's affecting this launch, what about the Mach-E or F-Series?"\nSupply chain worries\nJeoff Burris, the founder of Plymouth, Michigan-based Advanced Purchasing Dynamics, a supply chain consultant to auto suppliers primarily in North America, said the industry is bracing for new problems caused by the coronavirus.\n"It's not a surprise. I’ve been hearing stories for the last few months about continued supplier disruption due to COVID issues and auto manufacturers having to deploy resources into supplier facilities," he said. "They’ll supply purchasing, quality and engineering people to suppliers to help manage the situation."\nBut clearly, the current issues are overwhelming and devastating for a company with a new CEO who is eager to meet customer demand and Wall Street expectations.\n"It's a big deal," Burris said. "It’s letting air out of a positive marketing balloon. Ford is on a roll from a brand standpoint with the Mustang Mach-E and the Bronco. The cost of having an assembly line off line and not being productive is huge, in the millions."\nWill GM, Toyota have delays, too?\nMichelle Krebs, an executive analyst at Autotrader, said Ford is not alone in feeling pain.\n"We have seen problems with the supply chain due to the pandemic that have slowed and even forced the halt of production, so this comes as no surprise," she said. "It is not catastrophic. It is understandable."\nShe pointed to General Motors shutting down Corvette production and said Toyota has had problems with its truck plants.\n"It's happening across the board," Krebs said. "Ford has done better than most getting back up to speed. It's frankly shocking the supply chain has held up as well as it has."\nThe auto industry shut down from March to May at the start of the COVID-19 crisis.\nBronco Nation reaction\nJeff King, vice president and general manager of Bozard Ford Lincoln in St. Augustine, Florida, had just returned from birthday golf to discover the Bronco news.\n"I'm not freaked out over it," King told the Free Press. "I wish it didn't happen but we're going to be OK. And it'll be great when it gets here."\nFord notified dealers via email just after 4 p.m. on Friday, he said.\nJeff King, vice president and general manager at Bozard Ford Lincoln in St. Augustine, Florida, pictured here at his dealership in July 2019, said business is steady. He's taking measures to keep customers and workers safe.\nAcross the country in California, Mark Brooks said he was grateful for the heads-up.\nTransparency from the company is always good, he said. Bronco communication from Ford in the past has had "hiccups" and enthusiasts appreciate knowing that their constructive criticism for more information more quickly is heard. He noted exchanges on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and Bronco Nation board sites late Friday.\nMark Brooks, a credit union manager from Sacramento, Calif., is pictured outside his home on Dec. 4, 2020 with his 2016 Mustang. He has reserved a 2021 Velocity Blue Ford Bronco and just learned delivery will be delayed a few months due to COVID-19. He said, "I'm sure it's going to be worth the wait."\n"I got my reservation back in July," said Brooks, 50, a credit union manager from Sacramento. "I've been on pins and needles since."\nA lot of changes have unfolded in recent months, he said. "We waited this long. I'm bummed. But it's not the end of the world."\nFor now, he'll plan to drive his 2016 Ford Mustang through the summer of 2021 and plans to order the new Bronco in Velocity Blue.\n"I'm sure it's going to be worth the wait," Brooks said.\nContact Phoebe Wall Howard: 313-222-6512 or phoward@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter @phoebesaid. Read more on Ford and sign up for our autos newsletter.\nThis article originally appeared on Detroit Free Press: Ford Bronco 2021 delayed by supplier problems caused by COVID-19}}
{{The staff member is doing well and other staff have tested negative\nThe staff at Kaslo Building Supplies in 2017. Photo submittedThe staff at Kaslo Building Supplies in 2017. Photo submitted\nA staff member at Kaslo’s ACE Building Supplies tested positive for COVID-19 last week and is doing well, according to a Facebook post from the company on Sept. 7.\n“Everyone at Ace is feeling well,” the post states. “Other staff tests have been negative. We have four people in isolation and the store has had two major cleanings along with our usual daily wipe downs.”\nThe company has been in touch with WorkSafeBC and Interior Health and both have agreed it can carry on with its current COVID-19 Safety Plan.\n“When entering ACE, you MUST sanitize your hands, social distance and we recommend a mask. We will continue with our thorough cleaning,” the company said.\n“Our staff are told to stay home if they do not feel well. Thank you to our staff and the community for the support.”\nAs of Sept. 3 there had been just 17 cases of COVID-19 reported in the Kootenay Boundary sub-region of Interior Health since January, according to the B.C. Centre for Disease Control, and this is the first confirmed case in the Kaslo area.\nInterior Health announced 21 new cases of COVID-19 between Aug. 27 and Sept. 3. The region has had a total of 450 cases since the pandemic began.\nNelson Star}}
{{Texas health officials on Friday reported 13,921 COVID-19 patients statewide, the 12th consecutive daily record.\nGov. Greg Abbott's office announced Saturday that the Texas Division of Emergency Management has established two new COVID-19 therapeutic infusion centers in North Texas.\nThe new infusion centers are located in Fort Worth and Irving and will begin accepting patients Monday.\nAbbott's office said the centers have been provided with Regeneron's monoclonal antibodies and bamlanivimab to treat outpatient cases of COVID-19.\nThe patients must meet certain criteria and have a referral from a hospital or doctor, according to the governor's office.\nCenters are already been established in El Paso, Laredo, Harlingen, and Austin.\n"Increasing access to COVID-19 therapeutic treatments is a proven strategy to reduce hospitalizations and save lives," Abbott said in a written statement.\nMore than 3,000 Tarrant County residents have tested positive for coronavirus\nEight more residents have died and 3,110 additional people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Tarrant County, according to health officials.\nThis brings the county's total confirmed case count to 150,990 since tracking began in March.\nThe county has not updated its total coronavirus related-hospitalization count on its public dashboard. The dashboard shows there are currently 1,524 patients in the hospital due to COVID-19. This is the same number reported Thursday.\nThe record-high was confirmed earlier this week when 1,528 people were reported Wednesday.\nOn Friday, Tarrant County Public Health added 127 additional COVID-19 deaths to the county's total that occurred between October and December.\nCounty officials said the backlog happened because health leaders are now using new death certificate information from the Texas Department of State Health Services to find additional deaths of Tarrant County residents.\nFor a daily roundup of the latest news from around North Texas and beyond, sign up for the WFAA email newsletter.\nMore space in Austin for hospitalized virus patients\nOfficials in Austin and Travis County are working to open space in the Austin Convention Center to care for COVID-19 patients as hospitalizations in Texas set record highs.\nTexas health officials on Friday reported 13,921 COVID patients statewide, the 12th consecutive daily record.\nThe Alternate Care Site in Austin announced Saturday was established during a summer surge of the coronavirus but has not yet taken patients.\nIt will hold patients who do not need high-level or intensive care as those patients will remain in hospitals.\nAs of Friday, there have been more than 1.9 million virus cases and 29,310 deaths since the pandemic began.}}
{{News in your town\nDubuque Community schools report 30 new COVID-19 cases at week's end\nQuarantine, isolation, social distancing: What do they mean?\nWhere is COVID-19? Maps of confirmed cases in Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin (as of Friday)\n133 new COVID-19 cases in Dubuque County; 1 additional death in Iowa County, Wis.\n123 new COVID-19 cases, 1 more death in Dubuque Co. in 24 hours; 1 more death in Delaware Co.\nWhere is COVID-19? Maps of confirmed cases in Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin (as of Saturday)\n132 new COVID-19 cases, 1 more long-term care outbreak in Dubuque Co. in 24 hours; 41 more cases in Jones Co.\nWhere is COVID-19? Maps of confirmed cases in Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin (as of Thursday)\nSW Wisconsin school district to move to virtual learning for week after Thanksgiving\nGuttenberg City Hall closing to public due to increased COVID-19 cases in area\n108 new COVID-19 cases in Dubuque County; 2 deaths, 71 more cases in Grant County\nGuttenberg City Hall closing to public due to increased COVID-19 cases in area}}
{{South Dakota has administered 35,611 vaccine doses on 33,644 people, and 1,967 people have completed their two-dose series of the Pfizer vaccine.\nThe South Dakota Department of Health (DOH) reported the data Friday, with an update that 2,891 people in Pennington County have been vaccinated, including 470 who have completed their two-dose series.\nSupport Local Journalism Your membership makes our reporting possible. {{featured_button_text}}\nThe DOH reports Minnehaha and Lincoln counties have vaccinated more people than in Pennington county so far, with 10,569 people in Minnehaha and 3,998 in Lincoln county.\nMonument Health spokeswoman Stephany Chalberg said the hospital system isn’t experiencing the vaccine hesitancy or refusal that some health care workers are feeling in other states. Chalberg said the vaccine is voluntary.\nThe hospital system is still asking people in Phase 1C to reach out to their provider if they haven’t received information on how to schedule their vaccine.\nAs of Monday, Monument Health had administered 2,214 doses for people in Phase 1A and 360 doses for people in Phase 1C.\nYou must be logged in to react.\nClick any reaction to login. Love 2 Funny 0 Wow 0 Sad 0 Angry 0\nBe the first to know Get local news delivered to your inbox! Sign up! * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.}}
{{'Justice for George Floyd' - Mbappe & McKennie express solidarity as violent protests rage across United States\nThe U.S. international wore an armband during Saturday's game against Werder Bremen acknowledging the turmoil back in his home country\nWeston McKennie and Kylian Mbappe have expressed their solidarity over protests raging across the United States after a black man was killed by a police officer in Minnesota.\nOn Monday night, George Floyd was killed after a Minneapolis police officer kneeled on his neck for more than eight minutes, sparking protests across the city that have continued throughout the week.\nThe officer has been charged with murder and manslaughter but, by Friday night, protests had spread to at least 30 cities across the country.\nMore teams\nMany of the demonstrations have turned violent, with officers and protesters clashing, and property damage widespread.\nDuring Saturday's match against , midfielder Weston McKennie showed his support for the movement by wearing a "Justice for George" armband during the game.\nProtests in McKennie's hometown of Dallas, Texas erupted on Friday night, with rioters smashing windows and looting some stores in scenes that were repeated in cities across the country.\nIt wasn't just Americans who took notice of the protests, though, with star Mbappe also making his voice heard by tweeting "#JusticeForGeorge".\nMore demonstrations are expected nationwide on Saturday, with 2,500 members of the National Guard mobilised in Minnesota in an attempt to put down some of the more violent elements of the protests.\nWeston McKennie wore a 'Justice for George' armband during Schalke's game with Werder Bremen today, following the tragic death of George Floyd earlier this week 🙏\n📸 @s04_us pic.twitter.com/rzHClMAdTK — Goal (@goal) May 30, 2020\nFollowing the match, McKennie took to Twitter to explain his actions, saying it felt good to use his platform to bring attention to the issues back home.\nTo be able to use my platform to bring attention to a problem that has been going on to long feels good!!! We have to stand up for what we believe in and I believe that it is time that we are heard! #justiceforgeorgefloyd #saynotoracism pic.twitter.com/TRB1AGm0Qx — Weston McKennie (@WMckennie) May 30, 2020\nOn the pitch, McKennie was unable to prevent his side from continuing their slump as Schalke fell 1-0 at home to Werder Bremen after a first-half goal from Leonardo Bittencourt​.\nSchalke have now lost six of seven matches and have gone 11 games without a win after falling to Bremen, who are in deep relegation trouble sitting in 17th in the .\nAfter a strong start to the season, Schalke have slipped to 10th in the Bundesliga table.\nMcKennie could potentially be in his final season with Schalke, having expressed a desire to move to the Premier League earlier this month.\n“For me, the next goal is . It has always been my dream to play in the Premier League,” the 19-time capped U.S. international said in an exclusive interview with Goal and DAZN.\n“I want to join a club that fights for a place in Europe – the or the . For now, I'm happy at Schalke because I get to play.”}}
{{LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – The Arkansas Department of Health released the Tuesday COVID-19 numbers which is seeing a small, but steady reduction of cases currently in the State.\nIn the update, 18,600 doses were received by the state this week. The state has 293,600 doses with 147,609 given at 50.3%\nLong Term Care doses received this week will be distributed by CVS / Walgreens in long term care facilities are at 31,300, They currently have 80,700 with 6,626 doses given at 8.2%. This is controlled by a federal program, not the state.\nNew virus variants that spread more easily could lead to a rapid rise in COVID-19 case, which is expected. Variants happen in viruses all the time. The variant coming in from the UK is more transmissible, and the current vaccine will still help\nThe Arkansas Department of Health stated that there were 1,331 new cases of the coronavirus in the last day, bringing the total number of cases of COVID-19 in the state to 273,594 since the pandemic began.\nThe state reported that as of Tuesday there were 20,940 active cases of the virus, a drop of 1,854\nThere were 43 deaths reported Tuesday. In total, 4,386 people have lost their lives due to complications of the virus.\nThere are currently 1,265 hospitalized across the state due to COVID-19, which is up by 2 from Monday. Health officials also reported 209 patients on ventilators.\nSecretary of Education Johnny Key announced a rollout of a new resource to schools and communities in Arkansas which is partnered with the Department of Human Services.\nIt’s a Statewide community resources portal that will help with food, clothing needs, mental help, and more. Organizations can apply to be included in this resource. Currently, there are over 50 places in our state on the website which can be found at https://adedata.arkansas.gov/scr.\nThe Governor added that attending Super Bowl parties could cause an increase in the spread of COVID-19.\nHutchinson also said that he will be attending the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden in Washington D.C. on Wednesday.}}
{{Nashville will soon begin vaccinating residents age 75 and older by appointment through the city government and local hospitals, transitioning to the first phase of immunizing the general public against coronavirus pandemic.\nThe announcement came on the same day Nashville surpassed 500 deaths from the virus. Dr. Alex Jahangir, chairman of the city's coronavirus task force, said 500 flags will be planted on the front lawn of its historic courthouse on Friday as a memorial.\n“Each life we’ve lost in this pandemic is a tragedy,” Jahangir said.\nThe vaccination of older residents will begin in two ways. First, the city’s major hospitals groups – including Vanderbilt University Medical Center, TriStar, Ascension-Saint Thomas and Nashville General Hospital – will begin contacting established patients over the age 75 and older to schedule vaccinations. Vanderbilt, the city’s largest hospital, said in a mass email to patients Wednesday it can perform about 1,000 vaccinations per day.\nSecond, the Nashville Metro Public Health Department will vaccinate residents in the same age bracket by appointment on weekends. The agency intends to begin with 600 appointments this Saturday and Sunday, with a total of 4,800 doses provided over the next four weekends.\nVaccinations will be offered by appointment only to “avoid long lines and confusion” seen in some other states and counties, said Dr. Gill Wright, interim medical director of Metro Health. The number of appointments is currently limited by the city’s supply of vaccine, which it gets from the federal and state government.\n"There have been some hiccups along the way, but we are seeing a more steady stream that appears to be coming," Wright said Thursday "...You can expect a few problems along the way, but I think it's being improved and expect to get increasing doses of vaccine."\nResidents who are eligible for vaccination can get an appointment or join a wait list by calling 615-862-7777 or visiting asafenashville.org or COVID19.nashville.gov. Young residents should save this phone number and websites to sign up for appointments when vaccine becomes available to their age bracket.\nVACCINATION PHASES: How to find out when you're eligible for the COVID-19 vaccine\nMetro Health declined to disclose the location of its vaccination site out of concern elderly residents might wait outside without appointments, creating an infection risk among a vulnerable population.\nAbout 30,000 vaccinations done in Nashville\nExpanding vaccinations to the elderly is a major transition for Nashville, which is one of the last areas in Tennessee to reach this step. Many less-populated counties began vaccinating elderly residents a week or two ago and have now begun to vaccinate teachers, but this transition in Nashville was delayed because the city is a health care hub with more health care workers in need of vaccine than any other region of the state.\nWright said Thursday that nearly 30,000 vaccine doses have been administrated in the city, including about 26,000 doses for hospital workers and about 3,000 doses for first responders and other front-line workers. Vaccinations of these high-priority groups is not yet complete, Wright said, but the process is far enough along the city is prepared to expand availability to the oldest members of the public.\nThe vaccination of elderly residents is separate and in addition to vaccination of occupants of nursing homes and long-term care facilities, which is being handled by the state government through partnerships with pharmacies.\nNashville’s next distribution phase will offer vaccine to teachers, childcare workers and residents age 65 and older. City officials did not provide an estimate for when this next transition is expected to occur. The state government has estimated this phase could begin as early as February, but timetables vary across each Tennessee county.\n“The (vaccination) process may start slowly, but we are working with all of our health systems to get the vaccine into as many arms as soon as possible,” Wright said.\nBrett Kelman is the health care reporter for The Tennessean. He can be reached at 615-259-8287 or at brett.kelman@tennessean.com. Follow him on Twitter at @brettkelman.}}
{{SHAFAQNA-Mehr News Agency:The video shows the moment when a church have been destroyed after Beirut’s explosion.}}
{{Italy has signed an agreement with Russia to launch the production of the Sputnik V vaccine, with first batches expected to come out of an Italian plant as early as June. This would make it the first EU nation to produce the jab.\nThe deal was signed between the Russia Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which bankrolls the production and distribution of Sputnik V, and Italy’s Adienne Srl company, the Italian-Russian Chamber of Commerce (CCIR), which facilitated the negotiations, said in a statement on Monday.\nAdienne Srl is located in the northern Italian province of Monza and Brianza and is part of a major Swiss group, Adienne Pharma & Biotech. The company was the first to propose signing the strategic cooperation deal with the RDIF, and the talks continued for several months after that, CCIR said.\n"This step will help solve the problem of the shortage of vaccine doses in Italy," the statement added. Italy was one of the world's hardest-hit countries at the start of the pandemic a year ago, and has seen more than 3 million confirmed cases and almost 100,000 deaths related to Covid-19.\nThe first EU-made vials of Sputnik V could be available in June 2021, with plans to make 10 million doses by the end of the year, according to the statement. The production process of the vaccine will be controlled by the Italian side.\n"The agreement is the first of its kind with a European partner" for RDIF, proving that Italian companies "can overlook political differences" with Russia, Vincenzo Trani, CCIR president, has said.\nAlso on rt.com Italy ‘eagerly waiting’ for EU to register Sputnik V vaccine, head of group promoting Russian-Italian ties tells RT\nIn his Sunday interview with Italian broadcaster RAI3, the RDIF head Kirill Dmitriev confirmed that the fund was working with Adienne Pharma & Biotech group, while also continuing talks with the Italian government to further expand cooperation.\n"There are many regions who are enthusiastic about producing Sputnik V domestically," he said. Sputnik V boasts an efficacy of 91.6 percent, according to the Phase III trial data published by The Lancet medical journal.\nBy the end of the month, RDIF will announce 20 more joint projects in ten countries, according to Dmitriev. He said discussions have been under way on bringing Sputnik V to Germany and France.\nOne of the Italian regions interested in Sputnik V is Lazio, which is the most populous in the country and includes the capital Rome. The local authorities have already voiced plans to purchase the Russian vaccine as soon as it's approved by the EU regulator, and have addressed the Italian government on the production of the jab.\nBeing able to make the vaccine at home is a "strategic factor" for Italy, Alessio d'Amato, Lazio's health chief, told RT.\n"It's necessary to be self-sufficient to avoid problems. And in recent months, we've seen difficulties of procurement and on-time delivery" of the doses, he said, referring to the shortages of the EU-approved Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca jabs, which marred the start of the vaccination campaign in the EU.\nAlso on rt.com ‘I’m not a killer’: Slovakia’s PM says he won’t give up on ‘quality’ Sputnik V vaccine only because it’s made in Russia\nSputnik V has so far been greenlighted for use in 45 countries, with the likes of India, Brazil, China, South Korea and others already producing the vaccine outside Russia.\nHowever, despite the effectiveness of the vaccine being confirmed by the prestigious Lancet and other institutions, the EU appears to be in no hurry to approve it. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) only started a rolling review of Sputnik V earlier this week, with critics explaining the sluggishness in terms of political reasons.\n"We've always said that the important thing is that the vaccine is effective, efficient and safe – in this case it doesn't matter for us from which part of the world it comes," d'Amato pointed out, expressing hope that EMA's review of Sputnik V will bring "a positive result."\nThink your friends would be interested? Share this story!}}
{{MADISON, Wis. (WMTV) - The percent of positive new tests plummeted to the lowest number recorded in almost a month, health officials reported Tuesday.\nThe percent of positive tests dropped to 4 percent on Tuesday, the lowest recorded since July 7, according to numbers from the Wisconsin Department of Health Services.\nThe drop comes as the DHS reports it processed just over 17,400 tests, the highest number of tests processed in over two weeks.\nDHS (DHS)\nDHS reported 12 new deaths due to COVID-19 on Tuesday, bringing the total death toll to 961 in Wisconsin. That is about 1.7 percent of all patients who tested positive to the virus.\nThe average number of new coronavirus cases also dipped, coming in at a two-week low of 840. DHS reported 728 new confirmed cases on Tuesday, which is higher than on Monday but lower than on any day since July 28.\nThe current daily testing capacity currently rests at just over 24,000 at 83 labs across the state.\nCopyright 2020 WMTV. All rights reserved.}}
{{Almost the entire family of former president Joyce Banda has been hit hard by Covid-19 barely 6months after she claimed that there were no coronavirus cases in the country, saying DPP government was just releasing fake figures.\nThe former president made the remarks during a Tonse Alliance rally on Tuesday June 09, 2020 in Nkhatabay.\nBanda claimed that there were no cases of COVID-19 yet in the country such that the government was only taking advantage of the outbreak for its political interest.\nShe said: “We are hearing news that there is Coronavirus outbreak in the world, we thank God for favoring our country as we don’t have it here, they are faking it.”\nShe then urged government to return all the funds which have been aided by various organizations to assist in the fight against the deadly COVID-19 pandemic as the funds are not being used for the intended purpose.\n“We are therefore demanding all the funds which have been pumped into Malawi in the name of COVID-19 to the rightful owners and be used for development projects,” she said.\nThose affected include beloved Son to Banda, Roy Kachale Banda, who is also Malawi’s Minister of Industry.\nThat’s not all. JB’s beloved sister Cecilia Kumpukwe and husband together with their children are also down with Covid-19.\nMeanwhile JB has tested today and results are yet out.}}
{{New lockdowns have been ordered in America's most populous state in the face of what its governor has called the "final surge" of COVID-19.\nGavin Newsom announced new modified stay-at-home orders for 40 million residents of California after a dramatic rise in coronavirus case numbers.\nThe orders kick-in when a region's hospitals has fewer than 15% of its ICU beds available.\nIt extends an order already in place in Los Angeles where the mayor Eric Garcetti has warned the city is approaching a "devastating tipping point" after a record-breaking surge of cases this week.\nImage: Hundreds of cars lined up for testing at LA's Dodger Stadium last week\nLeaders have urged the public to abide by new restrictions in the hope of suppressing new infections before the anticipated arrival of widespread vaccination.\nAdvertisement\nIn March, early lockdowns in California were credited with the state avoiding the fate of places like New York.\nThe new rules are less restrictive and full of exemptions and there is evidence that a weariness with lockdowns is affecting compliance.\nAt the weekly farmers' market in Santa Monica, the number of shoppers is limited but there is still the feel of bustle in the warmth of a southern California winter morning.\nThe new rules have received a cool reception from farmers.\nImage: A health reminder on a Los Angeles bus as infections in the city surge\n"I don't think it is justified," Greg Nauta said. "Step back, in a space shuttle and look down on the Earth and see what's happening. They're destroying the economy."\nThe sentiment of shoppers could not have been different. "Just wear the freaking mask," one said.\nBut 30 miles to the south, in Long Beach, hundreds of people marched in protest at the impact of new lockdowns on businesses, in particular a new ban on outdoor dining.\nAmong the marchers, with an American flag over her shoulder, restaurant owner Jennifer Mlouk said: "We've all spent thousands and thousands of dollars to be compliant and then to be shut down in this way.\n"It's not just about the owners, my husband and I have 30 employees we've had to let go for the second time in eight months."\nBut there is equal frustration among public health officials at the risks of people not complying.\nAnne Rimoin, a renowned virus hunter and professor of epidemiology at the University of California Los Angeles, said: "History, when they talk about the pandemic, they're going to write about this moment when we lost so many lives when we didn't need to, when this virus just spiralled out of control, and that's what's happening."\nThe Centres for Disease Control has warned that the next few months will be the grimmest public health crisis the US has ever faced.\nBut the public could be forgiven for struggling with some mixed messages.\nMore than 500 people who had booked COVID tests at a pop-up centre in Los Angeles were later told it would be closed so a movie could be filmed nearby.\nThe closure was later reversed but it caused unnecessary confusion on the very day the city recorded its highest number of new cases.}}
{{Covid-19 is no reason to deny oneself a jug of beer or glass of wine in the great outdoors, a Bavarian court has ruled, overturning a statewide ban on open-air consumption of alcohol introduced to limit the spread of the virus.\nA man from the Bavarian town of Regensburg mounted the legal challenge against state authorities, with the court ruling that they'd overstepped their bounds when announcing a blanket ban on outdoor alcohol consumption in public places.\nThe law, which gave German states additional powers to introduce restrictions during the pandemic, only allowed for a ban on consuming alcohol in some public places, not all of them, the court said in its decision.\nBavaria, famously the home of Oktoberfest, restricted outdoor boozing in December after concerns were raised that Christmas mulled-wine stands – a common festive feature across Germany – could become hotbeds for infection due to their customers neglecting social distancing rules.\nAlso on rt.com New Covid-19 variant detected in Germany during outbreak at clinic in Bavaria\nThe man wanted other state Covid-19 restrictions, like a 15-kilometer daily travel limit and the requirement for families to meet with no more than one other person at a time, to be removed as well, but was not successful on those fronts.\nGermany, which has so far recorded over two million infections and more than 47,600 deaths due to the coronavirus, is currently under lockdown, with most shops and schools closed.\nAlso on rt.com Germany extends Covid-19 lockdown, makes masks compulsory amid fears of new virus strains\nOn Tuesday, Chancellor Angela Merkel and state premiers reportedly agreed to extend the measures until mid-February.\nThink your friends would be interested? Share this story!}}
{{In many areas, tourism took a major hit due to COVID-19, but tourism along the North Carolina coast didn't follow those trends.\nDespite pandemic setbacks and maybe even because of them, parts of North Carolina's beach tourism industry have flourished.\nWhat You Need To Know Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, many people came down to the North Carolina coast for vacation.\nVacation rentals hit a record high this summer, making up for short term rental closures earlier this year.\nOther businesses felt the good results of a busy summer carry over into the off season.\nAnne Holloway has worked at Bluewater vacation rentals for 13 years. Although their shortterm rentals were shut down from March through May, the rest of the summer more than made up for it.\n“We really didn't have time to know what to expect because as soon as they opened the beaches back up everything just exploded. We had a hard time even finding things for people to stay in cause everything was so full. It was just insane,” says Holloway.\nBluewater Rentals had a record breaking year due to the influx of visitors. Holloway believes it's because more people are working and studying from home.\nShe says renting condos or beach houses is a good way to take a break from being at home while still staying safe and following social distancing protocols.\n“[We're] just letting people know that it is safe to come here. And being in a house especially this size with five bedrooms and more space to spread out... but still be able to connect with each other and be at the beach,” says Holloway.\nThe success of vacation rentals spilled into other areas of tourism as well.\nThe Ruddy Duck Tavern in Morehead City welcomed many new faces this summer—Owner Fabian Botta refers to them as new “weekend locals” rather than tourists.\n“I think the theory that I have is that people are getting away from the cities. And they can be here, they can be on the water, they can be apart from each other,” says Botta.\nBut no matter how many people visit the beach, restaurants in the area still have to follow state guidelines and limit seating to 50% capacity.\n“We're able to fill it, no question about that,” says Botta.\nSo how does 2020 compare with previous years? Botta says it's about the same, maybe even a little busier.\n“It's a lot harder to do business, I'll tell you that. A lot of people are coming down to the beach, a lot of people are getting away from the cities. So we're able to see a little bit more business, a lot more traffic in the area right off season where we didn't see it before,” says Botta.\nAs off season approaches, things are expected to slow down. However, businesses are thankful for the support they have received through these difficult times.\n“We count our blessings that what I said that we're able to be here and that we're able to stay open,” says Botta.\nWill this trend continue? Time will tell. But with more of our lives moving online, working vacations with a view of the ocean could become the norm.}}
{{Slideshow ( 2 images )\nMADRID (Reuters) - Spanish Health Minister Salvador Illa will resign next week to campaign in regional elections in Catalonia, an official from his party said on Thursday, while national authorities reported a record 44,357 new daily coronavirus cases.\n“By Thursday of next week at 12 midnight, he will have given up his portfolio,” Miquel Iceta, the secretary of the Catalan Socialist Party, said in a news conference.\nIlla, who has overseen Spain’s response to the coronavirus pandemic, had said he would step down when campaigning got underway for the election, which is set to take place on Feb. 14.\nSpain has been routinely reporting record daily coronavirus infections since the end of December, but a top health official said the recent surge appeared to be stabilising.\n“The increases we are seeing are getting smaller every day, which implies that we have reached an inflection point,” Fernando Simon, the country’s health emergency chief, said in a separate news conference to present the data.\nDespite that optimism, the nationwide incidence of the virus as measured over the past 14 days climbed to a new high of 796 cases per 100,000 people on Thursday from 736 cases the previous day.\nSimon warned that pressure on hospitals would likely continue into at least the next week.\nThe latest figures brought the cumulative total of coronavirus cases in Spain to 2,456,675, while the death toll increased by 404 to 55,041.}}
{{MADISON, Wis. (AP) — Wisconsin’s chief health officer quit Thursday as COVID-19 continues to run rampant across the state. State Health Officer and DHS Interim Division of Public Health Administrator Stephanie Smiley announced her resignation effective Nov. 11 in a letter to local health departments. She wrote that her work has been difficult and she has accepted a position outside state service so she can focus on her own health. The DHS reported an additional 5,922 confirmed cases Thursday, just 17 cases shy of the daily case record of 5,935 set Wednesday. The state has now seen 249,924 cases since the pandemic began in March. The disease was a factor in another 38 deaths Thursday.}}
{{Today’s Headlines\nThe most important news stories of the day, curated by Post editors and delivered every morning.\nBy signing up you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy}}
{{Kids may find wearing masks uncomfortable, but if they're heading back to school, it's important to help them get used to them, says one expert.\n"We have to figure out a mechanism to teach kids how to do this, because it is going to be imperative for us to be able to add this on as another component on top of things like … ventilation, keeping kids distanced," said Jason Kindrachuck, assistant professor in emerging viruses at the University of Manitoba.\nKindrachuck said that while research suggests the virus doesn't seem to affect children's health as severely as it can with adults, we don't yet know what that means for how children could spread the virus to other people.\n"We don't have a vaccine," he told The Current's guest host Duncan McCue. "This is our means right now of being able to curb the virus from spreading."\nCanada's chief public health officer Dr. Theresa Tam spoke with reporters on Parliament Hill Friday about the upcoming school year. 2:27\nLast week, Canada's chief public health officer Dr. Theresa Tam suggested physical distancing and mask-wearing measures could be in place for the next two to three years, and recommended masks for schoolchildren over the age of 10.\nGlobally, countries that contained COVID-19 cases quickly were able to reopen schools in late spring. Denmark was among the first to reopen in April, with other countries in Europe and Asia following suit in May and June.\nOutbreaks related to schools reopening in those countries were rare, partially because community transmission rates were already low. By contrast, rates are still high in the U.S., where a Georgia school has reported an outbreak one week after resuming classes.\nWith the new school year weeks away, schools in Europe and Asia are now forgoing many of the stricter measures from last term — though masks are required in many Asian countries (where they were already widely worn), and will be optional in much of Europe.\nIn Canada, federal guidelines suggest provinces consider the use of masks in schools, but say non-medical masks should not be worn by anyone who is "unable to remove the mask without assistance, due to age, ability or developmental status."\nAcross Canada, the following guidelines and requirements have been announced for the new school year:\nOntario: Masks required for children in Grades 4 to 12.\nAlberta: Masks required for children in Grades 4 to 12 when in hallways, common areas, or working closely with others.\nNova Scotia: Mandatory for high schools students in hallways, common areas and on school buses, but not in class.\nQuebec: Students from Grade 5 and up will have to wear masks in hallways, common areas and on school buses, but not in class.\nNorthwest Territories: Students may be asked to wear masks in situations where physical distancing is not possible.\nSaskatchewan: The province has not made masks compulsory, but some school boards are strongly recommending them.\nMasks have not been made compulsory for students in B.C., Saskatchewan, Yukon, Nunavut, Prince Edward Island, or Newfoundland and Labrador, while the issue is under consideration in Manitoba and New Brunswick.\nMasks 'hard to breathe' in, says student\nAubrey Kogucki will have to wear a mask when he heads into Grade 6 in Toronto in September.\nHe told The Current that he finds wearing masks hot, "hard to breathe [and] also, kind of, like, weird."\nA sign outside a school in Sudbury, Ont. (Erik White/CBC)\nKindrachuck said he wears one every day at work and can "completely sympathize, they are not comfortable."\n"I agree they are not designed for comfort, they are a reminder for us that times are not normal," he said.\nWith a 22-month-old at home, Kindrachuck said he appreciates "how stubborn [children] can be."\n"There is no easy solution for how to do this universally with kids," he said.\n"Masks are not going to be the absolute magic bullet in stopping transmission, but they do have an importance in the role that they play for reducing transmission."\nClinical psychologist Saunia Ahmad examines the refusal by some to wear masks during the COVID-19 pandemic, despite public health advice. 5:50\nStart wearing masks now: doctor\nDr. Nisha Thampi agreed that it can take time for kids to get used to wearing a mask, but these final weeks of summer could be used to help make it "more comfortable to wear a mask indoors."\n"We've got a few weeks before the start of school to trial various types of masks and practise wearing it," said Thampi, medical director of infection prevention and control at the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario, and an assistant professor at the University of Ottawa.\n"Some families are getting their kids to wear a mask when they're watching watching TV or when they're doing their work," she said.\nGrade 6 student Aubrey expressed concern over wearing masks during lunch, and Thampi agreed "it is complicated and, really, impossible to eat lunch without removing our masks."\n"So in those situations, it is important to maintain physical distancing," she said.\nGlasses fog up? Not sure how often to wash the mask? CBC's Tina Lovgreen demonstrates how to wear a mask safely. 1:51\nSchools should have clear rules in place, she added, and look at additional measures such as plexiglass dividers at lunch tables or desks.\n"Look at various strategies such that kids and staff are not in close contact when we know their masks are down, and they will be potentially spreading droplets."\nThis article is part of No Easy Answers, The Current's series about education and returning to school in the time of COVID-19.\nWritten by Padraig Moran. Produced by Isabelle Gallant, Peter Mitton and Cameron Perrier.}}
{{Related News\nA runaway coronavirus positive case in Aba, Abia State, has surrendered himself and members of his family to the Infectious Diseases Hospital (IDH), Aba, for management of his sickness.\nThe Commissioner for Information in the state, Okeiyi Kalu, made the disclosure in a statement made available to journalists in Aba on Saturday.\nThe positive case was declared wanted on Thursday by the Abia Government, after he disappeared from a holding facility in Aba, having heard that he tested positive for coronavirus.\nMr Kalu said the patient reported at the IDH by 8.05 a.m. on Saturday with his wife and other family members.\nHe said the state rapid response team ambulance had taken them to the State Specialist Hospital and Diagnostic Center, Amachara, Umuahia, for isolation and management.\nAccording to him, having taken the patient and the family into custody at the specialist hospital, the family members would be tested for the virus.\nThe commissioner said the tracing of other contacts of the runaway patient had already begun.\nHe said that three patients currently being treated at the isolation center, including a 19-year-old man from Afugiri, Umuahia, and a 30-year-old man from Ofeme, Umuahia, would be discharged on Saturday.\nMr Kalu further disclosed that the third person to be discharged was a Lagos-based indigene of Olokoro, Umuahia, who returned to plan the burial of his relative, a COVID-19 patient who died in Kano.\nThe commissioner said that the trio were fit for discharge after testing negative twice consecutively. (NAN)}}
{{Seven more COVID-19 related deaths have been reported in Sri Lanka, the Department of Government Information confirmed a short while ago.\nThis bring the number of fatalities in Sri Lanka from the COVID-19 outbreak to 137.\nThe following deaths have been reported:\n91 year old male, a resident of Bandaragama. 53 year old male, a Prisoner. 56 year old female, a resident of Dematagoda. 81 year old female, a resident of Bandaragama. 84 year old female, a resident of Colombo 13. 66 year old male, a Prisoner. 62 year old female, a resident of Wellampitiya.\nLive COVID-19 situation report of Sri Lanka}}
{{Carol Smiljan/NurPhoto via Getty Images 60% of American adults said they are willing to get vaccinated if a ‘vaccine to prevent COVID-19 were available today,’ a Pew Research Centre survey from November found.\nA Pew Research Centre survey conducted in November found 60% of American adult respondents said they are willing to get vaccinated if a “vaccine to prevent COVID-19 were available today.”\nAmerican adult respondents who said that they have confidence that the “research and development process will yield a safe and effective” coronavirus vaccine rose from 65% to 75% between September and November, according to Pew.\nEven so, 39% of respondents said they would not get a coronavirus vaccine, and willingness to get a vaccine varies widely among different racial and ethnic groups.\nAs a supply of vaccines is expected to arrive soon, leaders around the world, including three former US presidents, have publicly emphasised the safety of vaccines.\nVisit Business Insider’s homepage for more stories.\nThe American public is more willing to be vaccinated to prevent coronavirus than a few months before, according to a new survey.\nA Pew Research Centre survey conducted in November and published last week found 60% of American adults said they would definitely or probably get vaccinated if a “vaccine to prevent COVID-19 were available today.” This response is a little short of a 10% increase from answers published by Pew in September when 51% of respondents said they would get a vaccine.\nAt the same time, public confidence in the vaccine has appeared to have grown as well, according to data from Pew. American adult respondents who said that they have confidence that the “research and development process will yield a safe and effective” coronavirus vaccine rose from 65% to 75% between September and November, according to Pew.\nEven so, 39% of respondents said they would definitely or probably not get a coronavirus vaccine, according to Pew. Experts warned that persistent hesitations about a coronavirus vaccine could prolong the fight against disease spread, Business Insider’s Kelly McLaughlin and Yelena Dzhanova previously reported. Amid confusing factors like widespread misinformation that has spread through online communities since the beginning of the pandemic, experts emphasised that authorities should prioritise providing clear information for the public to trust the safety of the vaccines.\nInformation could play a significant role in Americans receiving the vaccine, as 18% of respondents in the Pew survey said “it’s possible they would decide to get vaccinated once people start getting a vaccine and more information becomes available.” The other 21% of respondents who said they don’t intend to be vaccinated “are ‘pretty certain’ more information will not change their mind.”\nThe survey also showed a significant gap between how different racial and ethnic groups feel about getting vaccinated against the coronavirus. According to Pew, 42% of Black Americans said they intended to get a vaccine, contrasting with the 61% and 63% of white and Hispanic survey respondents who said they would likely or definitely receive the vaccine. English-speaking Asian Americans were by far the most likely group to be vaccinated with 83% of respondents answering they would do so, according to Pew.\nThe Black community has been cautious about partaking in vaccine trials. This expressed scepticism is rooted in a level of mistrust in the American healthcare system, where history shows many Black Americans have been exploited for medical research,Business Insider’s Taylor Ardrey previously reported.\nIn November, Moderna and Pfizer both filed for emergency-use authorization of their vaccines to the Food and Drug Administration. Moderna and Pfizer reported a 94.5% and 95% efficacy in its late-stage clinical trial, respectively.\nAs a supply of approed vaccines is expected to arrive soon, leaders around the world are working to build public trust in the vaccine. World Health Organisation Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, former President Barack Obama, former President George Bush, and former President Bill Clinton have all volunteered to get their coronavirus vaccine in public, to encourage public confidence in the vaccine.\nBusiness Insider Emails & Alerts Site highlights each day to your inbox. Email Address Join\nFollow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram.}}
{{The Navy has announced about a dozen personnel assigned to a Pearl Harbor destroyer, now in San Diego, have tested positive for COVID-19 and were removed from the ship.\nCmdr. Sean Robertson said that crew members aboard the USS Chafee who were in close contact with the infected sailors are also off the ship and in quarantine while monitoring symptoms, the Honolulu Star-Advertiser reported. None of the sailors have been hospitalized.\n“To reassure sailors and their families, all Chafee sailors will be tested today,” Robertson said, adding that there are about 350 people on the destroyer. “The ship remains able to meet its mission.”\nThe announcement came a few months after about a quarter of the crew of the Pearl Harbor destroyer USS Michael Murphy tested positive for COVID-19 in November.\nThat vessel was doing local operations but was in port when the virus was detected. At the time, the Navy said there were no hospitalizations, but all close contacts and nonessential crew members underwent a two-week self-isolation period.\nSeveral COVID-19 cases were also reported on the Pearl Harbor destroyer USS Wayne E. Meyer, officials said.\nThe U.S. Indo-Pacific Command reported in November that the number of confirmed cases within the military community in Hawaii was “a little below 7%” of the state's total since the pandemic began in March.\nConfirmed COVID-19 cases in the military are reported within the daily state totals, but a military breakdown is not made public. The Pentagon claimed doing so could communicate to foes where they were hardest hit.}}
{{MONTREAL -- Montreal public health officials announced that there are 184 more COVID-19 cases on the island and 50 more people have died.\nThe number of deaths more than doubled from the 24 reported Friday, and the total number of those who have died is 2,740.\nThe total number of confirmed cases of the virus in Montreal is 25,227.\nOf the deaths reported Saturday, 46 were over 70 years old with the other 4 between 50 and 69 years old.\nFour boroughs have now recorded over 2,000 cases of the virus with Montreal North hardest hit at 2,340 cases followed by Ahuntisic-Cartierville (2,212), Mercier-Hochelaga-Maisonneuve (2,103), and Cote-des-Neiges-Notre-Dame-de-Grace (2,013).\nMont-Royal has the highest mortality rate per 100,000 people at 305.8 (62 deaths), more than twice as much as the 132.6 average for all of Montreal. Mercier-Hochelaga-Maisonneuve accounts for the most deaths at 323 with an rate of 237.5 per 100,000 people.}}
{{Huge explosion rocks Beirut, injuring thousands across Lebanese capital\nA red cloud hangs over Beirut in the wake of an explosion at the port. The source of the explosion was a major fire at a warehouse for firecrackers near the port in Beirut, the state-run National News Agency reported.\n(CNN) -- A massive explosion ripped through central Beirut on Tuesday, killing dozens of people, injuring thousands and blowing out windows in buildings across the city.\nThe blast near Beirut's port sent up a huge mushroom cloud-shaped shockwave, flipping cars and damaging distant buildings. It was felt as far as Cyprus, hundreds of miles away, and registered as a 3.3 magnitude earthquake in the Lebanese capital.\nAt least 73 people were killed in the blast, Health Minister Hamad Hassan said, according to national broadcaster TeleLiban. He told reporters earlier that at least 2,750 people have been wounded.\nThere were conflicting reports on what caused the explosion, which was initially blamed on a major fire at a warehouse for firecrackers near the port, according to Lebanese state news agency NNA. The director of the general security directorate later said the blast was caused by "high explosive materials confiscated years ago," but did not provide further details.\nAn investigation into the explosion was announced by Lebanese Prime Minister Hassan Diab. The probe will include "revelations that will be announced about this dangerous warehouse which has been present since 2014," he said, without providing any additional details.\nThe lethal blast "will not pass without accountability," he said in a televised statement, adding that "those responsible will pay for what happened."\nA red cloud hung over the city in the wake of the explosion, which took place just after 6 p.m. local time (11 a.m. ET), as firefighting teams rushed to the scene to try to put out the initial fire. Footage from the scene captured the injured staggering through streets in the capital; and ambulances, cars and military vehicles packed with the wounded. One eyewitness said the scenes looked "like an apocalypse."\nAt least 10 firefighters are missing, according to the city's governor Marwan Abboud, who said the scene reminded him of "Hiroshima and Nagasaki." "In my life I haven't seen destruction on this scale," Abboud said. "This is a national catastrophe."\nAustralian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said at least one Australian was killed in the blast and the Australian Embassy building has been "significantly compromised."\nThe blast comes at a tense time in Lebanon. On Friday, a UN-backed panel is expected to issue a verdict on the 2005 assassination of former prime minister Rafik Hariri, a move many fear will stoke sectarian tensions. The country is also in the midst of an economic meltdown, with ballooning unemployment, a tanking currency and poverty rates soaring above 50%.\nHospitals inundated\nBeirut's hospitals Tuesday reflected the chaos in the city as doctors conducted triage on dozens of wounded people. Some had broken limbs, others had been showered with shards of glass. Some patients were unconscious.\nEmergency wards are inundated with the injured, while the Lebanese Red Cross implored the public on Twitter for blood donations to help the wounded. One of Beirut's major hospitals, Hotel Dieu, received around 400 injured patients, an employee told CNN.\nThe Secretary-General of the Kataeb political Party, Nazar Najarian, died after being injured in the explosion, NNA reported. He was in his office when the explosion happened.\nThe US Embassy in Beirut urged those in the area of the explosion to "stay indoors and wear masks if available" due to reports of toxic gases released from the blast.\nThe explosion damaged buildings across the city, including the official residence of Lebanon's president, the headquarters of former Prime Minister Saad Hariri, and CNN's bureau in downtown Beirut. Homes as far as 10 kilometers away were damaged, according to witnesses, and even people on the distant island of Cyprus felt the blast, according to the European-Mediterranean Seismological Centre (EMSC).\nOne Beirut resident who was several kilometers away from the site of the blast said her windows had been shattered by the explosion. "What I felt was that it was an earthquake," Rania Masri told CNN.\n"The apartment shook horizontally and all of a sudden it felt like an explosion and the windows and doors burst open. The glass just broke. So many homes were damaged or destroyed."\n"You can see injured people all over the streets in Beirut, glass all over the place, cars are damaged, it is like an apocalypse," said Bachar Ghattas, another resident.\n"It is very, very frightening what is happening right now, and people are freaking out. The emergency services are overwhelmed," Ghattas told CNN. "Beirut port is totally destroyed."\nWorld mourns\nPrime Minister Diab described the explosion as a "catastrophe" in his televised statement. He concluded by making "an emergency call to all those countries who love this country to stand by us and to help us heal our deep wounds." World leaders have expressed their condolences amid the unfolding tragedy.\nIsrael offered humanitarian medical assistance to Lebanon -- a significant gesture as Lebanon is one of a small number of countries that Israel regards as an enemy state. There have been no diplomatic relations since a ceasefire signed between the two countries in 1949.\nUS Secretary of State Mike Pompeo extended condolences and said, "We are closely monitoring and stand ready to assist the people of Lebanon as they recover from this tragedy."\nThe UK, Turkey, Qatar and Spain were also among the countries that offered their support to Lebanon.\nJordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi called his Lebanese counterpart Charbel Wahbeh to say that"Jordanians stand in support with Lebanon and its Lebanese brothers and are ready to offer any help they need," he said in a tweet.\nFrench President Emmanuel Macron said "rescue and aid" were on the way to Lebanon, while expressing solidarity with the "Lebanese people after the explosion that caused so many casualties and so much damage tonight in Beirut."\nIran's Foreign Minister Javad Zarif tweeted that his country was ready to help Lebanon "in any way necessary."\n"My thoughts are with the people of #Lebanon and with the families of the victims of the tragic #BeirutBlast," President of the European Council Charles Michel said in a tweet. "The EU stands ready to provide assistance and support."\nThe United States Ambassador in Lebanon, Dorothy Shea, expressed "heartfelt sympathies" to the victims and their families after "having witnessed the horrific explosions at the Port," she said in a statement shared on Twitter.\n"We mourn each loss from this terrible tragedy alongside the Lebanese people," the US Ambassador added.\nLebanese militant and political group Hezbollah said the explosion will require the unity of all Lebanese to overcome the catastrophe.\n"We are putting all our capabilities in serving our honorable people and dear citizens as needed," Hezbollah said in a statement.\nThe-CNN-Wire\n™ & © 2020 Cable News Network, Inc., a WarnerMedia Company. All rights reserved.}}
{{Facebook and Twitter have removed posts from President Donald Trump addressing his supporters who stormed the Capitol Building, followsing widespread condemnation of the platforms’ lack of action in the lead up to the violence in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday.\nFacebook has removed a video of Donald Trump discussing the riots in Washington, DC, in what it said is an “emergency measure”.\nThe video was posted hours after the riots began and showed Trump, seemingly standing outside the White House, urging those involved to go home.\nBut he also continued to promote false information about the election, told rioters that he loved them, and called them “very special”.\nFacebook’s vice president for integrity, Guy Rosen, said that it had removed the video because it was likely to lead to more violence.\n“This is an emergency situation and we are taking appropriate emergency measures, including removing President Trump’s video,” he posted on Twitter. “We removed it because on balance we believe it contributes to rather than diminishes the risk of ongoing violence.”\nWhile the decision to remove the video was met with encouragement, the predominant response to Rosen’s tweet was to ask why the account had not been removed entirely.\nTrump’s account otherwise appears as normal, and includes a number of the posts that have been accused of helping to incite the violence that unfolded over Wednesday.\nUsers also noted that accounts that are pushing the “Stop the Steal” conspiracy theory that rioters appeared to be acting on were also easy to discover across Facebook.\nFacebook’s move came as Twitter faced sustained criticism for allowing the video – and other inflammatory posts from Mr Trump’s account over the course of the day – to stay live on the site.\nTwitter did say that it was “exploring other escalated enforcement actions”, but its actions had at the time of publication only included labels and limiting the reach of posts.\nWhile it took the unprecedented step of limiting all interactions with the tweet, users were still able to see it. And despite claims that the post could not be retweeted, Trump’s official POTUS account was able to re-share the video, and users found that it could be re-posted in a quote tweet.\n“This claim of election fraud is disputed, and this Tweet can’t be replied to, Retweeted, or liked due to a risk of violence,” Twitter’s message under the post read.\nA tweet that included a “risk of violence” would usually be removed from the site and would ordinarily come with punishment for the person posting them, such as a temporary ban.\n“You may not threaten violence against an individual or a group of people,” Twitter’s terms state. “We also prohibit the glorification of violence.”\nTrump has, however, repeatedly been allowed to share posts that would lead to a ban for any normal user, under a special dispensation that Twitter says is justified by his status as a newsworthy elected official. It has suggested that exemption could be removed when he leaves office.\nTwitter wrote in a series of posts from its “Safety” account that other threats of violence would be dealt with as usual.\n“In regard to the ongoing situation in Washington, D.C., we are working proactively to protect the health of the public conversation occurring on the service and will take action on any content that violates the Twitter Rules,” it wrote.\n“Threats of and calls to violence are against the Twitter Rules, and we are enforcing our policies accordingly.\n“In addition, we have been significantly restricting engagement with Tweets labeled under our Civic Integrity Policy due to the risk of violence. This means these labeled Tweets will not be able to be replied to, Retweeted, or liked.\n“We are also exploring other escalated enforcement actions and will keep the public updated with any significant developments.”}}
{{The Federal Government has developed a comprehensive National Covid-19 vaccine deployment and vaccination plan and an operational manual to roll out the vaccines when they become available in the country.\nExecutive Secretary, National Primary Healthcare Development Agency, Faisal Shuaib disclosed this at the briefing of the Presidential Taskforce of Covid-19 on Monday.\nShuaib said the Federal Government is determined to stop the spread of the virus in Nigeria by accessing the World Health Organization (WHO) approved vaccines which will be administered free of charge at government designated and some private health facilities.\nHe encourage all Nigerians to get vaccinated when the vaccines become accessible as the benefits of the vaccines far outweigh the potential side effects.\n“The chances of spreading the disease is significantly reduced once community men are vaccinated and protected, owning to the fact that the vaccine triggers an immune response that will protect your body against the viruses if encountered.\n“There is currently seems to be hesitency and this is largely caused by misinforms, leading to mistrust, doubt, suspicions and conspiracies theories. We urged the public to disregard such misrepresentation from unverified sources and listen to the medical experts for confirmed information.\n“It’s important to note that vaccines, including Covid-19 vaccines are manufactured under strict compliances with WHO guidelines. Therefore, Covid-19 vaccines do not contain any harmful substance or microchips and does not alter human genetic information.\n“Furthermore, any vaccine coming to Nigeria will be tested by NAFDAC and certified safe human use before it is administered. We wouldn’t like to assure all Nigerians that this verification exercise will also be applicable to the Covid-19 vaccine and NAFDAC will continue to monitor the efficacy of the vaccine even after its administration to ensure proper documents of any side effect.\n“I want to reiterate that the first set of vaccines expected in the country is the Pfizer vaccines and equipment that are required to store them, that’s the ultra cold chain equipment for the storage of the vaccines are available at the National Strategic Cold Store of the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency.\n“The requirement for the 100,000 doses of Pfizer vaccine that would be coming by the end of January is 500 liters. So we have more than enough capacity for the 100, 000 doses. I make particular reference to those reports that claim we do not have any ultra cold equity”, he explained.}}
{{Bangladesh reported 6,830 new cases of the coronavirus on Friday, the highest count in a day, taking the tally of infections to 624,594. (Reuters)\nThe Bangladesh government on Saturday announced a week-long nationwide lockdown, starting Monday, as Covid-19 cases and deaths are on the rise in the country.\nRoad Transport and Bridges Minister Obaidul Quader made the announcement at a regular briefing from his official residence on Saturday morning.\n“The government is going to enforce a nationwide lockdown from Monday initially for a week as the spread of coronavirus increases,” Quader, also the general secretary of the ruling Awami League, was quoted as saying by PTI.\n“Every office and court will be closed during this lockdown, but industries and mills will continue their operation on rotation,” State Minister for Public Administration Farhad Hossain said in a separate briefing.\nOn being asked why industries and mills will not closed, Hossain said, “If we close the mills then the workers may have to leave their workstations and head for home.” He also added detailed instructions regarding the lockdown will be announced soon.\nBangladesh recorded the highest ever seven-day moving average of daily deaths from the novel coronavirus 46.43 since the pandemic broke out in March last year.\nAccording to the latest figures released by the authorities on Friday, the country reported 50 deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the tally of fatalities to 9,155. Bangladesh reported 6,830 new cases of the coronavirus on Friday, the highest count in a day, taking the tally of infections to 624,594.\nThe highest seven-day moving average of deaths during the pandemic was 44.86 on July 5 last year.\nAlarmingly, the seven-day moving average of fatalities was below 10 on March 11 and continued to rise since then. Besides, Friday’s Covid positivity rate 23.28 per cent is the highest recorded in the last seven months.\nIt was August 6 last year when the country had recorded a higher infection rate 23.43 per cent.\nThe overall infection rate of the country stands at 13.21 per cent.\nREAD | Aung San Suu Kyi charged with violating Myanmar's secrets act\nALSO READ | India condemns violence in Myanmar as toll continues to mount, urges maximum restraint\nWATCH | India can provide food, medicine but won't encourage infiltration: Amit Shah on Myanmar crisis}}
{{Kindly Share This Story:\nHonours memory of late staff, Uche Njoku\nNigeria now has 120 laboratories set up for swift COVID-19 testing nationwide\nDevelopment of Nigerian COVID-19 vaccine underway\nDue to the diligent work of Nigeria’s health workers and experts across the nation, the country has expanded its public health response capabilities and is making a progress in the public health sector since after the nation’s first COVID-19 case last year.\nVice President Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, stated this on Friday at the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Reference Laboratory, Gaduwa, Abuja, where he underwent a facility tour, accompanied by the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire; Minister of State for Health, Dr. Adeleke Olorunnimbe Mamora; and the Director-General, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu.\nWhile noting “that we have a critical situation on our hands currently with the increasing number of cases being recorded”, the Vice President however added that a lot of progress has been made since Nigeria’s first case was reported in February 2020.\n“We have activated nearly 120 laboratories nationwide – 70 of them public laboratories – and have significantly ramped up our testing and case management capacity”, he disclosed.\n“We have expanded the footprint of our sovereign public health response capabilities especially at the subnational level and in areas where previously such capabilities did not exist. “Not so long ago, test samples had to be flown out of the country for examination. This is no longer the case as we now have the capacity to process samples internally.”\nProf. Osinbajo observed that such an achievement should not be taken for granted, “but one that we are determined to consolidate on.”\nHe said, “this very facility is a testament to the strides that we have made during a short period. While we are not yet where we want to be as a nation, we are most certainly not where we were at the onset of the pandemic.”\nThe Vice President then applauded Nigeria’s public and private healthcare specialists and workers in the line of duty for ensuring the safety, cure, and prevention of the majority of Nigerians from the COVID-19 virus, sometimes under extremely challenging circumstances.\nHis words, “thousands of health professionals have been working tirelessly on Nigeria’s COVID-19 public health response. From the people across sample collection sites and laboratories ensuring testing, and our dedicated physicians, nurses, and other health workers in treatment centres providing care to the sick, to our medical scientists that are conducting research on various aspects of this plague. We also have State Public Health Teams working hard to ensure data reporting and analysis, contact tracing, risk communications and so much more.\n“Within this period, you have all worked extremely hard to activate testing in all states of our country, you have increased our knowledge of this disease, grown our capacity to swiftly identify those infected by the plague and render aid to them.”\nContinuing, Prof. Osinbajo noted that, “I know that the work you do can often seem thankless and the long hours you put in unnoticed and unappreciated. “Often it happens in the background and in the shadows, away from public attention and it will not often grab the headlines. But it only seems this way. In truth, this is the sort of work that builds nations and saves lives.\n“When the record of our response to this unprecedented threat to our public health is written, the efforts of our healthcare professionals will occupy a significant place with the thanks of a grateful nation”\nThe Vice-President also gave special commendation to NCDC where he added, “The excellent work I have witnessed today at the NCDC Reference Laboratory, is one of the best examples of how this pandemic has produced at least one silver lining, a showcasing of the remarkable skills and talents of our public health experts, here at NCDC and across the health sector.”\nHe declared that it is “fair to say that the staff of the NCDC and all those engaged in Nigeria’s COVID-19 public health response, represent public service at its very best in Nigeria, and are an example of the type of public sector that we all want.\n“So, to all staff of the NCDC and Public Health Teams across the states, thank you for the excellent work that you do. I want you all to know that your country is extremely proud of you. Incredible as it may sound, you are indeed making history every single day.”\nThe Vice President spoke on the ground-breaking research of several Nigerians towards creating a cure for the COVID-19 virus. He said, “Last week I was in briefing meetings, listening to the landmark research of a team of Professors from LUTH who are investigating the efficacy” of some of the drugs in the therapeutic management of Covid-19 and are researching its prophylactic use.\n“A few days later I was listening to Professor Christian Happi and his team who have produced a ground-breaking COVID-19 rapid test, but more remarkably, are developing a Nigerian anti-COVID-19 vaccine.”\nThe Vice-President further urged Nigerians to continue to comply with COVID-19 non-pharmaceutical measures, urging all Nigerians to comply with the advice of “our scientists and healthcare professionals and to continue to take every measure to keep themselves and their loved ones safe.”\nThe Vice-President then assured that as a nation and people, “we will come through this period of our history as we have come through all previous seasons of adversity – by working together, protecting each other, believing in each other, and committing to seeing better days ahead for our nation.”\nDuring the tour of the facility in Gaduwa, the Federal Capital Territory, the Vice President was taken around the laboratories and also interacted with a select group of staff. He paid tribute to the memory of the late NCDC staff, Uche Njoku, who died in the course of service.\nVanguard News Nigeria\nKindly Share This Story:}}
{{The veteran raised the money by walking 14 miles within seven days.\nThe money will be used to purchase personal protective equipment (PPE) and essentials for frontline workers of Commonwealth countries of Africa.\nSome of the funds will also be used to support some vulnerable veterans, particularly, in Ghana.\nContributors to the fund included soldiers in the British Army.\nEx-Private Hammond began the walk on May 19 and ended on May 25.\nStarting from his home at Osu, he walked for two miles daily, and went through areas such as the Bloombar, Danquah Circle and the Osu Oxford Street.\nREAD ALSO: Completed Asokore Mampong housing project named After Otumfuo Osei Tutu II\nHe took his final steps at the Black Star Square where he was met on arrival by some veterans.\nGhanaian war veteran, 95, raises £18,000 by walking to support COVID-19 fight\nInspired\nEx-Private Hammond fought in and survived the Second World War, and told the Daily Graphic that he felt obliged to also fight against COVID-19.\n“This is a virtual war that needs everyone to be part of to win. I asked myself what I could do and I realised walking to raise funds could be my contribution,” he explained.\nHe said he was also inspired by a similar exercise undertaken by a 100-year-old British WWII veteran, Colonel (retd) Tom Moore, who last March walked laps around his garden to raise funds to support the National Health Service (NHS) in its fight against COVID-19.\nTo mark his 100th birthday, Colonel (retd) Moore, though frail and needing the help of a walking aid, had expressed the hope to raise a thousand pounds in 24 days to support the NHS.\nHowever, his story went viral in the media and he had succeeded in raising over £32.79 million when he celebrated his birthday on April 30.\n“I embarked on this walk because I was inspired by Sir Colonel Moore. Being a veteran who fought in Burma like he did, I knew that I could do for Africa what he did for Britain, and in doing so, contribute a great amount for the frontline workers and vulnerable veterans across some countries in Africa,” Ex-Private Hammond said.\nREAD ALSO: Monkeys 'escape with COVID-19 samples' after attacking lab assistant\n“Many doubted if I could do it due to my age, but Jesus loves me so much and has crowned my efforts with success, and I thank him and all those involved in this initiative.”\nGUBA\nThe walk was an initiative of the GUBA Enterprise and Forces Help Africa.\nThe GUBA Enterprise is a social enterprise organisation dedicated to the advancement of diaspora Africans and Africans back home through various socio-economic programmes and initiatives.\nForces Help Africa is an agency that supports all pre-independence veterans who served the crown or under the British Command within all the Commonwealth countries in Africa before their country gained independence.\nEx-Private Hammond was joined by the United Kingdom High Commissioner to Ghana, Mr Iain Walker; Assistant Defence Advisor at the High Commission, Sgt Joel Downham, among other dignitaries.\nSource: Graphic.com.gh}}
{{Sign up for our special edition newsletter to get a daily update on the coronavirus pandemic.\nThree more cases of the highly contagious UK strain of the coronavirus have been identified in New York, Gov. Cuomo announced Saturday.\nTwo of the cases were related to a Saratoga Springs jewelry store, where the first case was found in the state earlier this month.\nA state lab detected another case in Nassau County, which does not appear to be tied to the three upstate.\nThat case was in a 64-year-old man from Massapequa, Cuomo said.\n“That brings the number of UK cases in this country to just about 55 and we believe that it is more widespread than that number would suggest,” he said.\nThe governor said the state’s COVID-19 positivity rate dipped slightly to 6.5%, down from 7.7%. There were 188 COVID-19 deaths in the state Friday.\nThe states has given out 543,000 dosages of the coronavirus vaccine, he said.\nThe rollout campaign has been criticized for going too slowly.\nAlamy Stock Photo\nCuomo said hospitals had upped the number of jabs, with 259,000 given out so far this week, up from 148,000 last week.}}
{{Segments covered: By Type – Women’s Wear, Men’s Wear, Kids Wear; By Distribution Channel – Retail Stores, Online Stores; By Type of Fiber – Man-Made Fibers, Cotton Fibers, Animal Based Fibers, Vegetable Based Fibers\n/EIN News/ -- LONDON, Jan. 05, 2021 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- New year, new updates! Our reports have been revised for market size, forecasts, and strategies to take on 2021 after the COVID-19 impact: https://www.thebusinessresearchcompany.com/global-market-reports\nMentioned in The Business Research Company’s research report on the apparel market, a survey was conducted in 2020 by McKinsey and company on 290 fashion executives to understand state of fashion industry in 2020. According to the survey, 57%, 58% and 58% of the fashion executives were of the view that the luxury fashion segment, mid-market and value segments respectively will not see any growth in 2020 when compared to 2019, while 31%, 39% and 38% of the fashion executives were of the view that the premium segment, mid value segment and value segment respectively will grow at a similar rate in 2020 as they did in 2019.\nThis is reflected in the decrease in demand but a spur in online purchasing in the clothing market. The slowed down economic activity due to COVID-19 across the globe has resulted in a decline in the apparel market demand. The apparel manufacturing industry is experiencing cuts in spending and poor consumer confidence due to fear over coronavirus spread. This low consumer demand keeps investors away from new investments in the sector. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), global GDP will decline by 3% due to COVID-19 impact. Many shop owners curbed their stock purchases due to low demand and increased inventory. According to the second survey report by the International Textile Manufacturers Federation (ITMF) between 28th March and 6th April, the global textile orders experienced around a 31% decline in orders in 2020. Fashion brands sales decreased by around 70% in India, owing to enforced lockdown and fear over coronavirus spread, which has piled-up apparel inventory.\nHowever, in addition to stockpiling of apparel from physical retail store shelves such as INDITEX, Uniqlo, and H&M, online ordering has also gone up. Due to lockdowns and travel restrictions around the world, people have less desire or need to purchase or wear much beyond casual clothing. As many companies announced the remote working option to their employees due to physical distancing restrictions, the market has witnessed a gradual increase in demand for work-from-home wear. Fashion retailers shifted their sales channel to online platforms, focusing on new trends based on the evolving consumer. For example, according to the Facebook-BCG joint study report, around 90% of consumers purchased clothing online during lockdown. Consumers find this safer to order apparels online rather than going outside to physical stores during the pandemic.\nThe Business Research Company ’s report titled Apparel Global Market Report 2021: COVID-19 Impact and Recovery to 2031 covers major apparel companies, apparel market share by company, apparel manufacturers, apparel market size, and apparel market forecasts. The report also covers the global apparel market and its segments.\nRequest For A Sample Of The Global Apparel Market Report:\nhttps://www.thebusinessresearchcompany.com/sample.aspx?id=2970&type=smp\nThe global apparel market size reached a value of nearly $527.1 billion in 2020, having declined at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of -0.6% since 2015. The decline during historic period is mainly due to lockdown and social distancing norms imposed by various countries and economic slowdown across countries owing to the COVID-19 outbreak and the measures to contain it. The market is then expected to recover and grow at a CAGR of 9.8% from 2020 and reach $842.7 billion in 2025, and $1,138.8 billion in 2030.\nAs many countries lifted lockdown restrictions, demand in the apparel market resumed slowly. Many apparel manufacturing companies are resuming their operations. The industry is focusing more on new opportunities that have opened up due to pandemic such as masks and PPE products. The companies are operating with additional safety measures such as adhering to proper hygiene practices, limiting contact with other personnel or customers, implementing strict sanitation procedures, enforcing social distancing between employees, use of personal protective equipment (PPE), and daily monitoring of employee health, among other measures.\nApparel Global Market Report 2021: COVID-19 Impact and Recovery to 2031 is one of a series of new reports from The Business Research Company that provide market overviews, analyze and forecast market size and growth for the whole market, segments and geographies, trends, drivers, restraints, leading competitors’ revenues, profiles and market shares in over 1,000 industry reports, covering over 2,500 market segments and 60 geographies. The report also gives in-depth analysis of the impact of COVID-19 on the market. The reports draw on 150,000 datasets, extensive secondary research, and exclusive insights from interviews with industry leaders. A highly experienced and expert team of analysts and modelers provides market analysis and forecasts. The reports identify top countries and segments for opportunities and strategies based on market trends and leading competitors’ approaches.\nHere Is A List Of Similar Reports By The Business Research Company:\nClothing And Apparel Market - By Type Of Product (Women’s Wear, Men’s Wear, And Kids Wears), And By Region, Opportunities And Strategies – Global Forecast To 2022\nClothing And Clothing Accessories Stores Global Market Report 2021: COVID-19 Impact and Recovery to 2031\nEthical Fashion Market - Segmented By Product (Organic, Man-Made/Regenerated, Recycled, Natural), By Type (Fair Trade, Animal Cruelty, Eco-Friendly, Charitable Brands), By End-user (Men, Women, Kids) And By Region, Global Opportunities And Strategies To 2030\nFashion E-Commerce Market Global Report 2020-30: COVID-19 Growth and Change\nFast Fashion Market Global Report 2020-30: Covid 19 Growth and Change\nNanotechnology Clothing Market Global Report 2020-30: COVID-19 Growth and Change\nInterested to know more about The Business Research Company?\nThe Business Research Company is a market intelligence firm that excels in company, market, and consumer research. Located globally it has specialist consultants in a wide range of industries including manufacturing, healthcare, financial services, chemicals, and technology.\nThe World’s Most Comprehensive Database\nThe Business Research Company’s flagship product, Global Market Model , is a market intelligence platform covering various macroeconomic indicators and metrics across 60 geographies and 27 industries. The Global Market Model covers multi-layered datasets which help its users assess supply-demand gaps.\nContact Information The Business Research Company Europe: +44 207 1930 708 Asia: +91 8897263534 Americas: +1 315 623 0293 Email: info@tbrc.info Follow us on LinkedIn: https://in.linkedin.com/company/the-business-research-company Follow us on Twitter: https://twitter.com/tbrc_info}}
{{Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine speaks about his plans for the coming year during an interview at the Governor’s Residence in Columbus, Ohio, on Friday, Dec. 13, 2019. Speaking during a year-end interview at the Governor’s Residence, the first-term Republican told The Associated Press that it’s all part of his commitment to help every Ohioan reach their “God-given potential.” (AP Photo/John Minchillo)\nCOLUMBUS (WCMH) — Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine has tested positive for COVID-19.\nAccording to a release from the governor’s office, DeWine tested positive after he took a test for COVID-19 as part of the standard protocol to greet President Donald Trump on the tarmac at Burke Lakefront Airport in Cleveland.\nDeWine currently has no symptoms, the release states.\nDeWine is returning to Columbus, where he and first lady Fran DeWine, who also has no symptoms, will both be tested.\nDeWine’s office says he plans to follow protocol for COVID-19 and quarantine at his home in Cedarville for the next 14 days.\nLt. Gov. Jon Husted also took the COVID-19 test Thursday as part of the protocol to greet the president and tested negative.}}
{{RALEIGH, N.C. (WNCN/WAVY) – According to the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services, 6,018 new cases of COVID-19 were reported across the state Saturday.\nSaturday is the first time more than 6,000 new cases were reported. This is a new record for North Carolina.\nThere have been nearly 17,000 new cases in the past three days, more than were reported in the first two and a half months of the pandemic.\nThe seven-day rolling average is also at a new record of 4,371.\nAnother new record is the number of hospitalizations, now 2,171 across the state.\nHere are the latest coronavirus case counts from local counties:\nBertie 9347 cases – 25 deaths\n9347 cases – 25 deaths Camden 198 cases – 4 deaths\n198 cases – 4 deaths Chowan 669 cases – 18 deaths\n669 cases – 18 deaths Currituck 388 cases – 5 deaths\n388 cases – 5 deaths Dare 705 cases — 4 deaths\n705 cases — 4 deaths Gates 245 cases – 7 deaths\n245 cases – 7 deaths Hertford 1,024 cases – 42 deaths\n1,024 cases – 42 deaths Pasquotank 1,150 cases – 35 deaths\n1,150 cases – 35 deaths Perquimans 364 cases – 4 deaths\nMore people are checking into hospitals every day. The state tracks the number of COVID patients admitted to hospitals each day and the days with the four highest single-day totals have come in the most recent four days (December 1-4). At least 265 new admissions every day, and nearly 300 both Thursday and Friday.\nAnother 49 deaths were reported, making it seven days in a row with at least 20 and four days in a row with at least 40. The death total is up to 5,516.\nThe North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services today released the following statement from NCDHHS Secretary Mandy K. Cohen, M.D.:}}
{{Olivia Wilde'sDon't Worry Darling has temporarily shut down production due to coronavirus concerns.\nET has learned that a team member from the production of the New Line film has tested positive for COVID-19. The diagnosis was confirmed as a result of required and ongoing testing that all production employees receive, and the team member is currently in isolation. Out of an abundance of caution, the film has paused production and will be back up in accordance with safety guidelines.\nDon't Worry Darling, Wilde's second time directing a film after 2019's critically acclaimed Booksmart, is a psychological thriller centering on an unhappy housewife in the 1950s. The A-list cast includes Florence Pugh, Harry Styles, Chris Pine, KiKi Layne, Gemma Chan, Nick Kroll, and Wilde herself has a supporting role.\nLast March, Wilde talked to ET about the incredible response she received for her directorial debut Booksmart.\n"I believe in it so much, but you never know [how people will react]," she said. "You are working on it in your own bubble. It was incredible to let the egg hatch into the world and have someone say they also felt it resonated. I have been working really hard on it and I am excited."\nMeanwhile, Wilde's directing career is definitely blossoming. In August, the mother of two seemingly teased her involvement in an upcoming female-focused superhero movie, after she reposted a Deadline tweet that mentioned that she had closed a deal to direct and develop an upcoming Marvel film. Additionally, Wilde also alluded to her new project by sharing a photo of her 6-year-old son with fiancé Jason Sudeikis, Otis, wearing a Spider-Man suit.\nRELATED CONTENT:\nOlivia Wilde Details Exactly How She Brought Lesbian Sex Scene to Life in 'Booksmart' (Exclusive) This video is unavailable because we were unable to load a message from our sponsors.\nIf you are using ad-blocking software, please disable it and reload the page. Embed Code Restart Olivia Wilde Details Exactly How She Brought Lesbian Sex Scene to Life in 'Booksmart' (Exclusive)\nJason Sudeikis on How Olivia Wilde Helped Inspire His Apple TV+ Series\nOlivia Wilde Says Getting Censored 'Booksmart' Scenes Back on Airlines Was About More Than Sex (Exclusive)\nOlivia Wilde on the Easter Eggs in 'Booksmart,' Including a Tribute to Her Daughter (Exclusive)\nRelated Gallery}}
{{Officer Brian Sicknick died “after defending the Capitol complex and protecting those who serve and work here," Pelosi said.\nWASHINGTON — House Speaker Nancy Pelosi says those responsible for police officer Brian Sicknick’s death from the siege at the Capitol by a mob loyal to President Donald Trump “must be brought to justice.”\nPelosi said Friday she was lowering flags at the Capitol in his honor.\nSicknick died “after defending the Capitol complex and protecting those who serve and work here. The perpetrators of Officer Sicknick’s death must be brought to justice,” she said.\nPro-Trump supporters were urged on by the president Wednesday to the Capitol where Congress was tallying the Electoral College votes to confirm Democrat Joe Biden’s election.\nFive people are now dead from the violent melee. As of Thursday night, 83 people were arrested and 50 Capitol and Washington police officers have been injured amid the pro-Trump riots and demonstrations near and at the U.S. Capitol Wednesday, according to initial information released by MPD and Capitol Police.\n“The violent and deadly act of insurrection targeting the Capitol, our temple of American Democracy, and its workers was a profound tragedy and stain on our nation’s history,” Pelosi said.\nThe Acting Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen released a statement Thursday and said that the Department of Justice is "committed to ensuring that those responsible for this attack on our Government and the rule of law face the full consequences of their actions under the law."}}
{{The UA women's basketball team's game against Washington scheduled for Friday has been postponed due to COVID-19 concerns within the Huskies 'program.\nThe schools say they will work to reschedule the game for a later date this season. Arizona is still expected to face Washington State in Pullman on Sunday. The seventh-ranked Wildcats will take a charter flight to face the Cougars, who are 6-1. The game will tip off at noon and air on both Pac-12 Arizona and 1400-AM.\nThe news of the postponement doesn’t come as a total surprise. UA coach Adia Barnes hinted earlier Wednesday that the Pac-12 could announce multiple postponements or cancellations this week. The Pac-12 allowed teams to send their athletes home during the Christmas holiday, though the Wildcats remained in Tucson.\n“For us, we didn’t make that decision because we didn’t think it was the smartest thing to do in a pandemic,” Barnes said. “If you look around the conference, I think you’ll see this week a lot of people on pause and I think it's fallout from that.”\nThe Cougars won't be playing their game against ASU scheduled for Friday, either. The Sun Devils continue to face COVID-19 issues of their own.\nBe the first to know Get local news delivered to your inbox! Sign up! * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.}}
{{(Fixes garbling in headline)\nOTTAWA, Jan 20 (Reuters) - Canada’s annual inflation rate slowed to 0.7% in December from 1.0% the previous month amid a new round of COVID-19 lockdowns and declining costs of airplane tickets, clothing and footwear, Statistics Canada said on Wednesday.\nHeadline inflation was below analyst expectations for inflation to remain at November’s 1.0% rate. Consumer prices fell 0.2% on the month, as did the cost of food.\n“It’s an unexpected slowdown in inflation,” said Royce Mendes, a senior economist at CIBC Capital Markets. “Looking at the details, I don’t think it much changes the thinking at the Bank of Canada.”\nThe Bank of Canada left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 0.25% on Wednesday and reiterated it did not expect inflation to return sustainably to its 2% target until 2023.\nHowever, the central bank said COVID-19 vaccines had helped brighten the outlook.\n“The arrival of effective vaccines combined with further fiscal and monetary policy support have boosted the medium-term outlook for growth,” the bank said.\nThe Canadian dollar was trading 0.8% higher at 1.2635 to the greenback, or 79.15 U.S. cents, after the rate announcement.\nTwo of the three core measures of inflation fell in December. The common measure, which the Bank says is the best gauge of the economy’s underperformance, fell to 1.3% from 1.5% in November. The median measure was unchanged at 1.8%.\nBoth Ontario and Quebec, Canada’s most populous provinces, imposed tighter health restrictions in December as the novel coronavirus spread.\nCanada reported 4,679 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, and has seen more than 18,000 total deaths since the start of the pandemic.\n“It should be expected there would be slack in the economy given the persistent shutdowns related to COVID,” said Andrew Kelvin, chief Canada strategist at TD Securities. “It’s nonetheless... a touch more concerning to see the move in the core measures than it is in the headline measures.” (Reporting by Julie Gordon and Steve Scherer in Ottawa, additional reporting by Fergal Smith and Jeff Lewis Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Bernadette Baum)}}
{{Something went wrong - please try again later.\nThank you for signing up to The Press and Journal newsletter.\nSign up for our daily newsletter featuring the top stories from The Press and Journal.\nA third coronavirus vaccine has been approved for use in the UK, but doses will not be available until the spring.\nThe jab from US biotech firm Moderna has been given the green light by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), joining the vaccines from Pfizer/BioNTech and Oxford/AstraZeneca.\nBut unlike the previous jabs, the Moderna vaccine will not be available for use straight away, with the first doses not expected to arrive until the spring.\nThe Government also purchased an additional 10 million doses of the vaccine on top of its previous order of seven million, taking the total to 17 million.\nSupplies will begin to be delivered to the UK from spring once Moderna expands its production capability, the Department of Health and Social Care said.\nThe MHRA accepted the recommendation of the Commission on Human Medicines and authorised the Moderna vaccine following months of rigorous clinical trials and extensive analysis of the vaccine’s safety, quality and effectiveness.\nThe jab is 94% effective in preventing disease, including in the elderly.\nPrime Minister Boris Johnson tweeted that the approval was “excellent news”, adding: “Our national vaccine effort is accelerating to vaccinate priority groups with our existing two vaccines, and the Moderna doses will add to that when they become available in spring.”\nExcellent news the @MHRAgovuk has approved the use of the @moderna_tx vaccine. Our national vaccine effort is accelerating to vaccinate priority groups with our existing two vaccines, and the Moderna doses will add to that when they become available in spring. https://t.co/yt43dxGuGS — Boris Johnson (@BorisJohnson) January 8, 2021\nHealth Secretary Matt Hancock said: “This is fantastic news and another weapon in our arsenal to tame this awful disease.\n“Through our vaccine delivery plan, we have already vaccinated nearly 1.5 million people across the UK.\n“The Moderna vaccine will boost our vaccination programme even further once doses become available from the spring.\n“While we immunise those most at risk from Covid, I urge everyone to continue following the rules to keep cases low to protect our loved ones.”\nThe authorisation comes just days after the end of the Brexit transition period, and two days after the European Medicines Agency (EMA) recommended granting a conditional marketing authorisation for the jab for adults.\n(PA Graphics)\nAs part of the transition period, until the end of December 2020, Covid-19 vaccine candidates authorised via the EMA would have automatically been valid in the UK.\nThe Department of Health and Social Care said the Moderna vaccine will be available for free and the Government is working with the devolved administrations to ensure it is deployed fairly across the UK.\nLike the other two vaccines, the Moderna vaccine will be deployed through hospital hubs for NHS and care staff and older patients to get vaccinated, through local community services with local teams and GPs, and through vaccination centres across the country.\nDeputy chief medical officer for England Professor Jonathan Van-Tam said: “The highly effective Moderna vaccine is another impressive success for science and is another testament to the hard work of researchers and selfless clinical trial volunteers.\n“This vaccine will save lives once doses become available, but it is crucial we all continue to follow the rules to protect each other until enough people have been protected.”\nNearly 1.5 million people in the UK have already been vaccinated with the Pfizer/BioNTech and Oxford University/AstraZeneca vaccines.\nThe Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) will submit updated advice on which groups to prioritise for vaccination before doses become available.\nStephane Bancel, chief executive officer of Moderna, said: “We appreciate the confidence shown by the UK MHRA in Covid-19 vaccine Moderna with this decision – which marks an important step forward in the global fight against Covid-19.\n“I want to thank the MHRA and the Commission on Human Medicines’ reviewers for their tireless efforts.\n“The authorisation of a product developed by Moderna is a significant milestone on the company’s 10-year journey, and I would like to thank all our colleagues that have helped us get to this point.”\nVaccines are already being rolled out to those considered to be most vulnerable, according to a priority list guided by the JCVI.\nThe nine categories in phase one of the vaccination programme cover some 30 million people in the UK.\nMr Johnson has said the aim is to vaccinate 15 million people in the UK by mid-February, and officials hope to have inoculated all those in phase one by the spring.\nThe UK has now ordered 367 million doses of vaccines to protect against Covid-19.\nThis includes the Moderna doses – enough to vaccinate 8.5 million people – which are expected to be released in phases.\nLike the Pfizer/BioNTech, the Moderna jab is an RNA jab which injects part of the virus’s genetic code in order to provoke an immune response.\nIt can be stored at temperatures of around minus 20C, compared to Pfizer/BioNTech’s minus 70C.\nJonathan Ball, professor of molecular virology, University of Nottingham, said: “It’s great news that another vaccine has been approved to help in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.\n“It is unclear when it will become available for distribution, but like the other mRNA vaccine, which is made by Pfizer, the reported effectiveness of the Moderna vaccine is very impressive.\n“In an ideal world we would be able to prioritise the use of the mRNA vaccines to protect those most vulnerable from severe Covid disease, and the fact that the Moderna vaccine can be stored at minus 20 degrees, rather than minus 70 for the Pfizer vaccine, will help overcome some of the logistical challenges faced by the mRNA vaccines.\n“We desperately need an effective vaccination programme so the more options available the better.”}}
{{Statistics show that apart from Covid-19, news readers in Macau have a significant focus on their homeland as well, Chinese newspaper Cheng Pou reports.\nAs the calendar year ended, the local paper conducted a survey on “online data,” the sample for which was not identified. They determined that in 2020, apart from the Covid-19 pandemic, news readers were most concerned with the government budget and spending, world heritage site conservation, and guarding Coloane against further urbanization.\nIt was early last year when Covid-19 gradually spread, which prompted the World Health Organization to declare a pandemic. The last pandemic was in 2009 when the world was hit by the H1N1 virus, albeit less severely when compared with the current pandemic.\nClosed borders and the termination of international travel have brought Macau to a standstill. The Chief Executive, Ho Iat Seng, has thus instructed all government bodies to cut at least 10% of their annual budget, and pledged that government spending will not increase in 2021.\nHowever, the government head said exemptions may exist in the infrastructure sector.\nThe second news topic which interested local readers the most was regarding the high-rise building project proposed for the ZAPE District, in the neighborhood of the Oriental Arch installation.\nIf built, the building will be 90 meters tall. The proposed building has stirred up public concern, especially as it is within the buffer zone of the Guia Lighthouse, a World Heritage site.\nCommentators have called for the government to reconsider the project and stressed that a clear line of sight to the lighthouse should be preserved.\nAs of today, no work has commenced on the land plot.\nThe last piece of non-Covid news that gathered most public attention was about the Master Urban Plan, which categorized a land plot at the foot of the Coloane Hill as residential area.\nIn 2012, a development plan was called off due to objection from the public. An organization managed to collect nearly 7,000 signatures from individuals opposing the development.\nNon-industrial buildings as tall as 100 meters were allowed to be built. The hill, meanwhile, is only 172 meters at its summit.\nWith the Master Urban Plan categorizing the land plot as residential area, residents are worried about prospective damage to the hill once again.}}
{{Demi Lovato is doing her part to combat the acts of terrorism committed by Trump supporters at the Capitol in Washington D.C. on Wednesday, which includes putting out some political music about what went down….wait, seriously?\nWhile she probably means well, Demi Lovato caught a lot of people off guard this week when she responded to the MAGA riots by letting everyone know she was going into the studio to make music about it.\n“My heart is broken,” she wrote on Twitter following the news on Wednesday. “It makes me to sad to believe how naive I was to think this couldn’t possibly happen, and yet it did. Here we are. For everyone in my comments saying “where’s d7” or wanting me to sing instead of speaking up about what needs to change in this country…”\nOkay, Demi, seems legit. People want you to sing instead of speaking up. Don’t give in! Don’t sing! Let’s see what she had to say next.\n“THIS IS WHY I POST AS MUCH AS I DO,” she tweeted. “THIS IS WHY I CARE. THIS CANNOT HAPPEN ANY FUCKING MORE. I’m angry, embarrassed and ashamed. I’m in the studio working on something special after today’s assault on democracy. #impeachtrumptonight.”\nOh…okay. So she is going to sing. Well….alright.\nThere’s nothing wrong with Demetria making some woke music, but…who asked for this? And what exactly does this solve?\nLike Ms. Rosa would say, just opeeennnn your puuuuuurse!\nLovato has been open about her dismay for the Trump administration, which she eludes to in her track “Commander in Chief” that dropped back in October. The 28-year-old singer has been active during this election season, most recently dedicating her social media outlets to campaigning for the Georgia runoff elections.\nAnyway, here are some responses to Demi’s decision to run to the studio in the middle of political unrest:}}
{{By BASSEM MROUE and ZEINA KARAM | Associated Press\nBEIRUT — Investigators began searching the wreckage of Beirut’s port Wednesday for clues to the cause of the massive explosion that ripped across the Lebanese capital as the government ordered port officials put under house arrest.\nInternational aid flights began to arrive, as Lebanon’s leaders struggled to deal with the aftermath of Tuesday’s blast, crippled by an economic crisis and facing a public where many already blame chronic mismanagement and corruption among the ruling elite for the disaster.\nA drone picture shows the scene of an explosion at the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. More than 70 people were killed and 3,000 injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla)\nIn this drone picture, the destroyed silo sits in rubble and debris after an explosion at the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. The massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla)\nSound The gallery will resume in seconds\nLebanese soldiers search for survivors after a massive explosion in Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. The explosion flattened much of a port and damaged buildings across Beirut, sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. In addition to those who died, more than 3,000 other people were injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.(AP Photo/Hassan Ammar)\nDestruction is seen after a massive explosion in Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. The explosion flattened much of a port and damaged buildings across Beirut, sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. In addition to those who died, more than 3,000 other people were injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.(AP Photo/Hassan Ammar)\nA drone picture shows the scene of an explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla)\nDestruction is seen after a massive explosion in Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. The explosion flattened much of a port and damaged buildings across Beirut, sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. In addition to those who died, more than 3,000 other people were injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.(AP Photo/Hassan Ammar)\nDestruction is seen after a massive explosion in Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. The explosion on Tuesday flattened much of a port and damaged buildings across Beirut, sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. In addition to those who died, more than 3,000 other people were injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said. (AP Photo/Hassan Ammar)\nThis drone pictures shows a destroyed events and exhibition hall near the scene of an explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. More than 70 people were killed and 3,000 injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla)\nA drone picture shows smoke from the scene of an explosion at the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla)\nPeople inspect a destroyed building near the scene of an explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nIn this drone picture, the destroyed silo sits in rubble and debris after an explosion at the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. The massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla)\nDestruction is seen after a massive explosion in Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. The explosion flattened much of a port and damaged buildings across Beirut, sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. In addition to those who died, more than 3,000 other people were injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.(AP Photo/Hassan Ammar)\nThis drone picture shows a destroyed restaurant near the scene of an explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. More than 70 people were killed and 3,000 injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla)\nThis photo shows a general view of the scene of an explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. The massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nDestruction is seen after a massive explosion in Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. The explosion flattened much of a port and damaged buildings across Beirut, sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. In addition to those who died, more than 3,000 other people were injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.(AP Photo/Hassan Ammar)\nThis photo shows a general view of the scene of an explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. The massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nA couple drives past destruction after a massive explosion in Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. The explosion flattened much of a port and damaged buildings across Beirut, sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. In addition to those who died, more than 3,000 other people were injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.(AP Photo/Hassan Ammar)\nPeople stand in front of a destroyed building near the scene of an explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nThis photo shows a general view of the scene of an explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nDestruction is seen after a massive explosion in Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. The explosion flattened much of a port and damaged buildings across Beirut, sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. In addition to those who died, more than 3,000 other people were injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.(AP Photo/Hassan Ammar)\nThis photo shows a general view of the scene of an explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nIn this drone picture, the destroyed silo sits in rubble and debris after an explosion at the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. The massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla)\nThis photo shows a general view of the scene of an explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. The massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nA drone picture shows the scene of an explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla)\nLebanese soldiers search for survivors after a massive explosion in Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. The explosion flattened much of a port and damaged buildings across Beirut, sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. In addition to those who died, more than 3,000 other people were injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.(AP Photo/Hassan Ammar)\nThis photo shows a general view of the scene of an explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. The massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nA destroyed port after a massive explosion is seen in Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. The explosion flattened much of a port and damaged buildings across Beirutl, sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. In addition to those who died, more than 3,000 other people were injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.(AP Photo/Hassan Ammar)\nMen look at the scene of an explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nThe explosion at the port killed at least 100 people and wounded thousands. Hospitals were overwhelmed — one that was damaged in the blast had to evacuate all its patients to a nearby field for treatment. Buildings were damaged for miles around the city, and Beirut’s governor said Wednesday that hundreds of thousands might not be able to return to their homes for two or three months.\nMeanwhile, an official letter surfaced online showing that the head of the customs department had warned repeatedly over the years that a huge stockpile of ammonium nitrate stored in a hangar in the port was a danger and asked for a way to remove it.\nAmmonium nitrate is a component of fertilizer that is potentially explosive. The 2,750-ton cargo had been stored at the port since it was confiscated from a ship in 2013, and on Tuesday it is believed to have detonated after a fire broke out nearby.\nThe resulting explosion — hitting with the force of a 3.5-magnitude earthquake — was the biggest ever seen in Beirut, a city blasted by a 1975-1990 civil war, bombarded in conflicts with Israel and hit by periodic terror attacks.\nThe 2017 letter from the custom’s chief to a judge could not be immediately confirmed. If authentic, it could deepen the belief already expressed by some Lebanese that widespread mismanagement, negligence and corruption among the country’s ruling class is to blame for the explosion.\nPresident Michael Aoun vowed before a Cabinet meeting on Wednesday that the investigation would be transparent and that those responsible will be punished.\n“There are no words to describe the catastrophe that hit Beirut last night,” he said.\nAfter the meeting, the Cabinet ordered an unspecified number of Beirut port officials put under house arrest pending an investigation into how the ammonium nitrate came to be stored at the port for years. The government also declared a two-week state of emergency, effectively giving the military full powers during this time.\nState prosecutor Ghassan Oueidat ordered security agencies to start an immediate investigation and collect all reports and letters related to the materials stored at the port as well as lists of people in charge of maintenance, storage and protection of the hangar.\nIn the letter, the customs chief warns of the “dangers if the materials remain where they are regarding the safety of (port) employees” and asked the judge for guidance on what to do with it. He said five similar letters were sent in 2014, 2015 and 2016. The letter proposes the material be exported or sold to a Lebanese explosives company. It is not known if there was ever a response.\nThe government also said public schools will be opened to host those who lost their homes and the minister of tourism will also work on opening some hotels for use by those who lost their homes. It also promised compensation for the victims.\nWith the Port of Beirut destroyed, the government said imports and exports will be secured through other ports in the country, mostly in the northern city of Tripoli and the southern port city of Tyre.\nResidents of Beirut confronted a scene of utter devastation Wednesday. Smoke still rose from the port, where a towering building of silos was half destroyed, spilling out grain. Hangars around it were completely toppled. The blast knocked out a crater some 200 meters (yards) across that filled with seawater — it was as if the sea had taken a bite out of the port, swallowing buildings with it.\nMuch of downtown was littered with damaged vehicles and debris that had rained down from the shattered facades of buildings.\nLebanon was already on the brink of collapse amid a severe economic crisis. Many have lost their jobs and seen their savings evaporate because of a currency crisis. Food security is a worry, since Lebanon imports nearly all its vital goods and its main port is devastated. The government is strapped for cash.\nLebanon’s economic crisis is rooted in decades of systemic corruption by political factions that exploit public institutions for the benefit of their supporters. Decades after the civil war, residents endure frequent power outages and poor public services.\nFrench President Emmanuel Macron was to traveling to Beirut on Thursday to offer support and meet with Lebanese leaders. Lebanon is a former French protectorate and the countries retain close political and economic ties.\nAssociated Press writers Sarah El Deeb and Hassan Ammar in Beirut, Jon Gambrell in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and Joseph Krauss in Jerusalem contributed to this report.}}
{{A team of health care workers wear personal protective equipment (PPE) while turning a patient from their stomach onto their back in the Covid-19 in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at Providence Cedars-Sinai Tarzana Medical Center in Tarzana, CA, on December 18.}}
{{×\nremaining of\nThank you for reading! On your next view you will be asked to log in to your subscriber account or create an account and subscribepurchase a subscription to continue reading.}}
{{Not long after Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton addressed a large "Save America" rally of Trump loyalists outside the White House on Wednesday, they marched on the Capitol and breached the building as Congress sought to ratify President-elect Joe Biden’s electoral victory.\nBut Paxton had his own ideas about the mob carrying pro-Trump flags and signs.\nOn Thursday morning, he took to Facebook to advance a conspiracy theory that the people who overtook the Capitol were not Trump supporters, but members of antifa.\n"Those who stormed the capitol yesterday were not Trump supporters. They have been confirmed to be Antifa," Paxton wrote. "Violence is not the answer."\nPaxton’s post cited two sources: a screenshot of a tweet by right-wing journalist Paul Sperry and a screenshot of a Washington Times article with the headline, "Facial recognition firm claims antifa infiltrated Trump protestors who stormed capitol."\nSUBSCRIBE TODAY: Stay informed with accurate reporting you can trust on HoustonChronicle.com\nOn Wednesday, as Capitol Hill police removed the rioters from the Capitol, Paxton published something similar. People who stormed the building following a Trump rally "are not Trump supporters," he tweeted, citing the screenshot of Sperry’s tweet.\n"BREAKING: Former F.B.I. agent on the ground at U.S. Capitol just texted me and confirmed that at least 1 ‘bus load’ of Antifa thugs infiltrated peaceful demonstrators as part of a false Trump flag ops," Sperry’s tweet reads.\nSperry's tweet has since been deleted. Sperry, a former Washington bureau chief for Investor's Business Daily, has authored several anti-Muslim books with titles like, "Infiltration: How Muslim Spies and Subversives Have Penetrated Washington," and "Muslim Mafia: Inside the Secret Underworld That’s Conspiring to Islamize America." He has not return questions sent to him via email.\nPaxton’s second source alleging that Wednesday’s mob is "confirmed to be Antifa," the Washington Times article, was published about 8:15 p.m. Wednesday by news and opinion writer Rowan Scarborough. The story sources an unnamed "retired military officer" who told the Times "that the firm XRVision used its software to do facial recognition of protesters and matched two Philadelphia Antifa members to two men inside the Senate."\nThe newspaper has since retracted the report, but not before Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Florida, cited it later that day on the House floor, saying that "some of the people who breached the Capitol today were not Trump supporters, they were masquerading as Trump supporters and were in fact members of the violent terrorist group antifa."\nXRVision, a facial recognition technology company based in Singapore, issued a statement to PolitiFact and BuzzFeed News Thursday morning saying that the company sent the Washington Times a cease and desist letter asking it to retract the story and issue an apology. XRVision’s software identified two members of a Neo-Nazi organization and a Q-Anon supporter, not members of antifa. The company said it distributed that imagery to a handful of individuals for private consumption only.\nNEWS IN YOUR INBOX: Sign up for breaking news email alerts from HoustonChronicle.com here\nThe company said it does not know the identity of the "retired military officer" who gave the Washington Times the information it based its report on.\n"XRVision takes pride in its technology's precision and deems the Washington Times publication as outright false, misleading, and defamatory," the company said in its statement.\nThe Times issued a correction to the story at around 5:30 p.m. Thursday after an inquiry from PolitiFact, saying that "The Washington Times erroneously reported late Wednesday that facial recognition technology backed up that speculation and identified two Antifa members. In fact, XRVision has not identified any members of that far-left movement as being part of the attack."\nPaxton did not return a request for comment.\nAs Wednesday’s events turned chaotic, Trump himself identified the mob as his own supporters in a video posted to Twitter, where he asked them to disperse peacefully, adding, "We love you. You’re very special."\nOne of the rioters identified in multiple photographs, Jake Angeli, also known as the "Q Shaman," easily spotted in his horned fur cap, rebuffed allegations that he was a masquerading member of antifa.\n"I am not antifa or (Black Lives Matter). I am a Qanon & digital soldier," Angeli posted to Twitter.\nOthers recorded videos from inside the Capitol, identifying themselves as patriots, including Jenny Cudd, a former Midland mayoral candidate who said she broke into House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office.\nShe told the Midland Reporter-Telegram, without offering evidence, that antifa activists broke through Capitol barriers and assaulted police officers before she arrived.\nOur ruling\nPaxton published two social media posts following Wednesday’s pro-Trump riot at Capitol Hill saying that the rioters were not Trump supporters, but antifa.\nPaxton based his claim on two sources — a deleted tweet and a retracted Washington Times article. Beyond those dubious sources, there’s no evidence showing that those who stormed the capitol were antifa.\nWe rate Paxton’s claim Pants on Fire.}}
{{Restaurant owners and their staff protest against restrictions due to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, outside a restaurant in central Stockholm, Sweden January 14, 2021. Carl-Olof Zimmerman/TT News Agency/via REUTERS\nSweden has seen a decline in new COVID-19 cases and hospitalisations in recent weeks, the Health Agency said on Tuesday, though it warned it was too early to say if it represented a lasting slowdown.\nSweden, whose unorthodox pandemic strategy has placed it in the global spotlight, registered 9,779 new coronavirus cases since Friday, health agency statistics showed. The figure compared with 17,395 cases the corresponding period last week.\n"It has started to come down in all age groups, although primarily among younger people," Chief Epidemiologist Anders Tegnell told a news conference. "We will see if it lasts."\nSome 340 patients were being treated in intensive care on Tuesday, a decline of around 20 from last week, as hospitals continued to battle a second wave of the virus that has been of much the same magnitude as the deadly outbreak during spring.\nThe country of 10 million inhabitants registered 268 new deaths, taking the total to 10,591. The deaths registered have occurred over several days and weeks with many from the Christmas period being registered with a significant delay.\nThe Health Agency also said 147,000 doses of vaccine had been used as of the end of last week, equal to one dose for around 1.5% of the population. It said none of Sweden's 21 regions had reported any problems in administering the vaccine.\nSweden's death rate per capita is several times higher than that of its Nordic neighbours' but lower than in several European countries that opted for lockdowns.}}
{{In order to determine the presumed number of people who have recovered from the virus, state health officials say the patient must meet one of two criteria. For patients who were NOT hospitalized, they are considered recovered if they have not tested positive for the virus after 14 days. For patients who were hospitalized or if hospitalization was unknown, they are presumed recovered if it has been 21 days or more since they tested positive.}}
{{That survey showed a more than two-thirds majority of elementary parents wanting their students on campus at the time. Things have changed since then as the infection rate has more than tripled in the County and active cases eclipsed more than 2,000 this week, but with the survey that went out Wednesday, there should be another look Monday at what people are feeling right now four months later. But, if the Board was to operate under the assumption that those same parents haven’t changed their minds — which could be a big assumption, yes — they would have little reason to change their plans for getting students back in Plan B starting Jan. 19 as scheduled as the district went back to Plan C in December due to rising cases in the County.\nSupport Local Journalism Your subscription makes our reporting possible. {{featured_button_text}}\n“I think what (Superintendent) Dr. (Chris) Lowder needed to know tonight was the desire of the Board and I think he’s heard that perfectly loud and clear,” Furr said. “The desire is to get the kids in school as soon as possible.”\nAdcock went so far as to put up for discussion — there was no motion nor a second, this was only a discussion — that CCS bring back elementary students in kindergarten through third grade in Plan A on Jan. 19 and then fourth and fifth graders back in Plan A on Feb. 1.}}
{{Krista S. Kano\nAkron Beacon Journal\n(MCT)\nPublic and private EMS workers were among the first Ohioans eligible to receive a COVID-19 vaccine, but only about 40% locally opted to get the first dose, according to Summit County Public Health.\n“We did some pre-surveys, so it is what we were expecting,” Summit County Pubilc Health Public Information Officer Marlene Martin said. “We were hoping for a higher turnout. Obviously, our ideal would have been 100%.”\nRelated\nThe county started administering the first dose of the Moderna vaccine to EMS workers on Dec. 26 as part of Ohio’s phased approach. Distribution of the second dose will begin Jan. 23.\nThe state is currently in Phase 1A. Hospitals, local health departments and health care systems are distributing vaccines to essential workers in health care settings; pharmacies are distributing to long-term care and nursing home residents and staff; and the local health departments are administering to congregate care staff and residents, EMS first responders and any remaining long-term care facility staff.\nThe Summit County health department has received close to 4,000 doses of the Moderna vaccine, which does not include the doses issued to the county’s hospitals and pharmacies. As of Tuesday, 7,714 people had started being vaccinated in Summit County, accounting for 1.43% of the population, according to the state’s COVID-19 vaccination dashboard.\nVaccination rates among local EMS workers align with the statewide rates for nursing home staff, also at 40%, Gov. Mike DeWine said Tuesday. The rate among residents is higher at about 75% to 80%.\nOf the Summit County fire departments that spoke to the Akron Beacon Journal, none were requiring workers to get the vaccine.\n“Since the policy decision at this stage is to encourage voluntary vaccination, any legal position on mandatory vaccination would be premature,” Ellen Lander Nischt, press secretary for Akron Mayor Dan Horrigan said. “We continue to look at medical and legal guidance as the vaccine rolls out.”\nIn Akron, 219 fire department employees received the first dose of the vaccine, about 63% of the uniformed personnel, fire department spokesperson Lt. Sierjie Lash said.\n“There is understandable concern with a brand new vaccine being available,” Chief Clarence Tucker wrote in an email. “Yet we all need to consider the safety and well-being of our family and friends. When it comes to getting the COVID-19 vaccine, we can do our part to encourage and protect those we know. Ultimately, we are not just keeping ourselves healthy, but we make a positive impact on the health and well-being of others too.”\nElsewhere in the county, vaccination rates of local fire departments vary.\nMacedonia had one of the highest rates in Summit, with about 90% of eligible staff receiving the first dose on a voluntary basis. Because staff often work at multiple departments, individuals must get the vaccine through the department that issued their medic license.\nThe only vaccine mandated at the Macedonia Fire Department is the hepatitis vaccine for those who work as emergency medical technicians or EMTs, “which is basically everybody,” Chief Brian Ripley said.\n“My personal view is that this vaccine is emergency authorization,” Ripley continued. “This hasn’t been approved by the FDA. Some of these are kids, and they are kids, only in their early or mid-20s. We don’t know what the long-term effects will be. They should be allowed to make their own decisions.”\nTallmadge Fire Department also has not mandated the COVID-19 vaccine and does not require employees to submit vaccination records. About 60% of its eligible staff received the first dose, including Chief Michael Passarelli.\nPassarelli did not poll those who opted out.\n“What I heard through the grapevine was that they wanted to get it on the second round,” he said. “There’s a lot of fear and they want to wait and see. I told them, ‘Your wait-and-see might be in six months.'”\nSummit County Public Health will offer a catch-up day for those in Phase 1A who did not receive the first dose shortly after Christmas, but Martin declined to comment on the timeframe in order to limit crowds of people who are not yet eligible to receive the vaccine. The health department is communicating those dates with individual departments and agencies.\nPassarelli received his first dose on Dec. 26 during a health department drive-thru event that required preregistration and a valid city ID. An attendant came to his car to administer the vaccine and then instructed him to sit in a parking lot for 15 minutes and to honk his horn and turn on his lights if he experienced any side effects.\nHealth Commissioner Donna Skoda said no one who has received the COVID-19 vaccine from the health department has had an allergic reaction to it.\n“I got my flu shot a few weeks ago and it felt the same, like a charley horse in the arm,” Passarelli said. “That was the predominant problem. Some got a headache, a couple got the chills, but that was the extent of it.”\nSteve Bosso, the assistant fire chief and PIO for the Twinsburg Fire Department, did not know their vaccination rate, “but it’s relatively safe to say that the vast majority of our members, including myself, have voluntarily agreed to get the COVID vaccination.”\nOf the Northfield Village Fire Department staff who responded, about 80% received the vaccine and about two-thirds of them reported the expected immune response side effects. Everyone who received the initial dose is planning to take the second dose, Chief Jason Buss said.\nHe added that those who opted out did so for personal reasons or the belief that there was not enough research or information available on mRNA vaccines.\nAll five of Hudson’s full-time firefighters received the first dose, and of the four full-time EMS employees, two received it and two declined, city spokesperson Jody Roberts said.\nCuyahoga Falls Fire Chief Fred Jackson said the “majority” of the department’s 73 full-time firefighters/paramedics received the first dose of the vaccine, but added he does not yet have firm numbers.\nThe next phase, Phase 1B, of distributions is expected to start in about two weeks, but it will depend on vaccine availability and supply from the federal government, DeWine said. Phase 1B includes adults 65 and older; those with severe congenital, developmental or early-onset medical disorders; and adults who work in schools.\nBeacon Journal reporters Emily Mills, April Helms, Phil Keren and Doug Livingston contributed to this report. Reporter Krista S. Kano can be reached at 330-541-9416, kkano@thebeaconjournal.com or on Twitter @KristaKanoABJ.\nThis article originally appeared on Akron Beacon Journal: Majority of Summit EMS workers opt out of COVID-19 vaccine\n___\n(c)2021 the Akron Beacon Journal (Akron, Ohio)\nVisit the Akron Beacon Journal (Akron, Ohio) at www.ohio.com\nDistributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.}}
{{Wyo4News Staff, [email protected]\nCHEYENNE, WYOMING (August 4, 2020) — According to the Wyoming Department of Health, as of Monday, August 3, Sweetwater County reported three new laboratory-confirmed cases of COVID-19. This brings the total to 236. Sweetwater County still has 14 probable cases.\nAdvertisement\nStatewide, 31 new laboratory-confirmed cases of COVID-19 were reported. There are now 2,364 laboratory-confirmed cases and probable cases are 484. 2,214 of those cases have recovered. The total number of active cases in Wyoming is 634. The death toll due to the virus rose to 27 after a woman in Fremont County passed away due to the virus.\nFor more information and statistics on COVID-19 click here.}}
{{In this report, the COVID-19 Impact on Pigment Additives market is valued at USD XX million in 2019 and is expected to reach USD XX million by the end of 2026, growing at a CAGR of XX% between 2019 and 2026. COVID-19 Impact on Pigment Additives market has been broken down by major regions, with complete market estimates on the basis of products/applications on a regional basis.\nBrowse full research report at https://www.crystalmarketreport.com/covid-19-impact-on-pigment-additives-market-global-research-reports-2020-2021\nPigment additives enhance the properties of pigments that are used in paints, coatings, and printing inks.\nAPAC will contribute to the largest growth of this market throughout the predicted period. Owing to the rapidly evolving use of paints and coatings in the construction and automotive industries across the emerging economies including India and China, the region is likely to continue accounting for the largest demand for pigment additives during the forecasted period as well.\nThis report provides a complete quantitative data and qualitative analysis on the global market for Pigment Additives. Market size is analysed by country, product type, application, and competitors. Expanded coverage includes additional end-user industry breakdowns and in-depth producer profiles.\nPrior to COVID-19, the global market for Pigment Additives was anticipated to grow from US$ XX million in 2020 to US$ XX million by 2026; it is expected to grow at a CAGR of xx% during 2021–2026, whereas post-COVID-19 scenario, the market for Pigment Additives is projected to grow from US$ XX million in 2020 (a change by ~XX% compared to market estimated for 2020 before the outbreak of COVID-19) to US$ XX billion by 2026; it is expected to grow at a CAGR of XX% during 2021–2026.\nThis report covers market size and forecasts of Pigment Additives, including the following market information:\nGlobal Pigment Additives Market Size, 2019-2021, and 2020 (quarterly data), (US$ Million) & (K MT)\nGlobal Pigment Additives Market Size by Type and by Application, 2019-2021, and 2020 (quarterly data), (US$ Million) & (K MT)\nGlobal Pigment Additives Market Size by Region (and Key Countries), 2019-2021, and 2020 (quarterly data), (US$ Million) & (K MT)\nGlobal Pigment Additives Market Size by Company, 2019- 2020 (quarterly data), (US$ Million) & (K MT)\nKey market players\nMajor competitors identified in this market include Akzo Nobel, BASF, DowDuPont, Evonik Industries, Huntsman International, Solvay, etc.\nBased on the Region:\nAsia-Pacific (China, Japan, South Korea, India and ASEAN)\nNorth America (US and Canada)\nEurope (Germany, France, UK and Italy)\nRest of World (Latin America, Middle East & Africa)\nBased on the Type:\nInorganic pigments\nOrganic pigments\nBased on the Application:\nPaints\nCoatings\nPrinting Inks\nBrowse full research report at https://www.crystalmarketreport.com/covid-19-impact-on-pigment-additives-market-global-research-reports-2020-2021\nReasons to Buy This Research Report\nAbout Crystal Market Reports\nCrystal Market Reports is a distributor of market research spanning 160 industries. Our extensive database consists of over 400,000 quality publications sourced from 400 plus publishers, this puts our research specialists in the unique position of been able to offer truly unbiased advice on what research provides the most valuable insights.\nContact Info.:-\nAddress: 911 Central Avenue #268\nAlbany New York 12206\nEmail: sales@crystalmarketreport.com\nPhone: 1-518-730-1569\nWeb: https://www.crystalmarketreport.com}}
{{A massive explosion rocked downtown Beirut early this morning NZT, flattening much of the port, damaging buildings and blowing out windows and doors as a giant mushroom cloud rose above the capital.\nYour playlist will load after this ad\nThe BBC has reported at least 50 people are dead.\nLebanese Health Minister Hassan Hamad says over 2,500 people are injured.\nThere are currently 21 New Zealanders registered on SafeTravel as being in Lebanon and 10 registered as being in Beirut, however the Ministry of Foreign Affairs told 1 NEWS there is no information to suggest any have been caught up in the disaster as of yet.\n"The New Zealand Embassy continues to monitor the situation closely," a spokesperson said.\n"New Zealanders in Beirut are advised to stay away from the affected area and to follow the instructions of local authorities."\nA message has been sent to all New Zealanders registered on SafeTravel as being in Lebanon.\nAn Israeli government official says Israel “had nothing to do” with the blast.\nIsrael and Lebanon’s Hezbollah militant group are bitter enemies, and tensions have been high following a series of recent clashes. Earlier Tuesday, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned Hezbollah Israel would not hesitate to strike again if it felt it was necessary.\nBut, the Israeli official said Israel was not involved in the Beirut explosion. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter with the media.\nIt was stunning even for a city that has been shaken by civil war, suicide bombings and bombardment by Israel.\nDozens of ambulances ferried the injured from the port area, where the wounded lay on the ground, Associated Press staff at the scene said. Hospitals called for blood donations.\nAftermath of a massive explosion is seen in in Beirut, Lebanon Source: Associated Press\nThe head of the Lebanese Red Cross told local TV there were hundreds of casualties although many were superficial wounds from broken glass.\nVideo taken by residents showed a fire raging at the port, sending up a giant column of smoke, illuminated by flashes of what appear to be fireworks. Local TV stations reported that a fireworks warehouse was involved.\nThe fire then appeared to catch at a nearby building, triggering a more massive explosion, sending up a mushroom cloud and a shock wave over the city.\n“It was like a nuclear explosion,” said Walid Abdo, a 43-year-old school teacher in the neighbourhood of Gemayzeh near Beirut.\nCharbel Haj, who works at the port, said it started as small explosions like firecrackers, then the huge blast erupted and he was thrown off his feet. His clothes were torn.\nMiles from the port, balconies were knocked down, windows shattered, streets were covered with glass and bricks and lined with wrecked cars. Motorcyclists picked their way through traffic, carrying the injured.\nOne woman covered in blood from the waist up walked down a trashed street while talking furiously on her phone. On another street, a woman with a bloodied face looked distraught, staggering through traffic with two friends at her side.\n“This country is cursed,” a young man passing by muttered.\nThe blast came at a time when Lebanon’s economy is facing collapse, hit both by a financial crisis and coronavirus restrictions. Many have lost jobs, while the worth of their savings has evaporated as the currency has plunged in value against the dollar. The result has thrown many into poverty.\nIt also comes amid rising tensions between Israel and the militant Hezbollah group along Lebanon’s southern border.\nThe explosion was reminiscent of massive blasts during Lebanon’s civil war and took place only three days before a UN-backed tribunal was set to give its verdict in the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in a truck bombing more than 15 years ago.\nThat explosion, with a ton of explosives, was felt miles away, just like today's explosion.}}
{{The 117th Congress will convene on Wednesday to officially certify President-elect Joe Biden's Electoral College victory over President Donald Trump, clearing the way for the former to take office on Jan. 20.\nWhile the Democrat majority in the House and the Republican majority in the Senate will vote to certify the election results, several GOP members of Congress plan to object to Biden's 306-232 Electoral College victory over Trump.\nAlmost a quarter of Senate Republicans have said that they will not sign off on Biden's win unless there is an audit of the 2020 presidential election. Additionally, as many as 140 House Republicans have indicated that they may object to accepting the president-elect's victory too.\nRepublican lawmakers from both Pennsylvania and New Jersey, two states which Biden won over Trump in November, have said that they will join in the effort to challenge the election results, according to USA Today.\nEight GOP members of Pennsylvania's congressional delegation, all of whom serve in the House of Representatives, will vote to block the certification of Biden's win on Wednesday.\nThe eight GOP lawmakers are Rep. John Joyce, Rep. Dan Meuser, Rep. Glenn Thompson, Rep. Mike Kelly, Rep. Lloyd Smucker, Rep. Guy Reschenthaler, Rep. Fred Keller and Rep. Scott Perry.\nVia a joint statement issued last Thursday indicating their intent to oppose Biden's Electoral College win, the group said that "election integrity is the only way to ensure trust in our elections and it is accomplished by adhering to our Constitution and the law."\nThe lone Pennsylvania GOP congressman who did not sign onto the joint statement is Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick. Fitzpatrick represents Pennsylvania's 1st Congressional District, which covers all of Bucks County and a portion of Montgomery County.\nPennsylvania Republican Sen. Pat Toomey issued a statement on Saturday saying that he will vote to certify the election results, slamming the GOP-led initiative to block Biden's win as an "effort to disenfranchise millions of voters in my state and others."\nThe lone member of New Jersey's congressional delegation who plans to object to Biden's win is GOP Rep. Jeff Van Drew.\nThe Democrat-turned-Republican Van Drew, who represents New Jersey's 2nd Congressional District, told the Press of Atlantic City last week that he "won't be voting to certify the electors."\nThe South Jersey congressman's opposition to certifying Biden's victory earned the rebuke of Democrat Gov. Phil Murphy on Monday.\n"It pains me in particular to see one of our own representatives, Congressman Jeff Van Drew, cynically siding with conspiracy theorists and throwing his fate in with the far right’s disproven and crackpot theories," Murphy said. "If that's the legacy Jeff wants, then I guess it is what it is."\nSince the election, Trump and many GOP lawmakers have made baseless and unsubstantiated claims of widespread voter fraud. There is no proof or evidence of widespread illegal voting having taken place.\nThe 11th-hour initiative to stop Biden from being sworn in later this month has earned the backing of both Trump and Vice President Mike Pence. However, Senate GOP leadership has not thrown its support behind the efforts by several senators to reject the presidential election results.}}
{{Most of the Bay Area will implement the state's new stay-at-home order early. Details here.}}
{{A supporter of US President Donald Trump sits inside the office of US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi as he protests inside the US Capitol Building in Washington, DC, January 6, 2021.\nA man was arrested sitting in the office of Speaker Nancy Pelosi during riots in the capital on Wednesday, several law enforcement officials familiar with the situation told NBC News.\nRichard Barnett was arrested in Arkansas and charged with entry and stay for restrictive reasons, violent entry, and theft of public property.\nSoon pictures of Barnett spread and he presented them on Pelosi’s office as evidence of the chaos surrounding the Capitol building when a mob of pro-President Donald Trump infiltrated police and threatened lawmakers inside.\nBarnett bragged to reporters about what he did shortly after walking out of the Capitol.\n“I wrote her a bad note, and put my foot on her desk,” he said He told the New York TimesWhile carrying an envelope he had taken from the office, decorated with spokesperson’s papers.\nBarnett could not be reached for comment.}}
{{Millions of people in the U.K. faced tough new coronavirus restrictions on Saturday, with Scotland and Northern Ireland demanding tighter measures to try to halt a new variant of the virus that is believed to spread more quickly.\nNorthern Ireland went into a six-week lockdown, while in Wales, restrictions that were relaxed for Christmas Day were also reimposed.\nThe number of people under England’s top level of restrictions — Tier 4 — increased by six million on Saturday to million people overall, about 43 per cent of England’s population. The region included London and many of its surrounding areas.\nNo indoor mixing of households is allowed, and only essential travel is permitted. Gyms, pools, hairdressers and stores selling non-essential goods have been ordered to close, and pubs and restaurants can only do takeout. Business groups say the restrictions will be economically devastating to their members.\nAnother 570 daily deaths from COVID-19 were reported, bringing Britain’s total death toll to 70,195, the second-worst in Europe after Italy. Britain also reported more than 32,700 new cases of the disease on Christmas Day.\nCustoms officers stand at the checkpoint on the Eurotunnel site on Dec. 22. Many countries have shut their borders to travellers from the U.K. following the discovery of a new variant of the coronavirus. (Michel Spingler/The Associated Press)\nFears about the U.K.’s new variant have sparked a week of border chaos. About 1,000 British soldiers spent Christmas Day trying to clear a huge backlog of trucks stranded in southeast England after France briefly closed its border to the U.K. and demanded coronavirus tests from all drivers.\nTransport backlogs clearing\nBut British Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said Saturday that more than 15,000 drivers had been tested and that the backlog at a testing site at Manston Airport was cleared by Sunday morning. Only 36 positive tests had been reported, he said on Twitter.\n“A massive THANK YOU to everyone who’s worked tirelessly over the past few days to reduce the huge disruption caused by the sudden French border closure,” Shapps tweeted.\nThe first cases of the U.K.’s new variant have now been detected in France and Spain. A French man living in England arrived in France on Dec. 19 and tested positive for the new variant on Friday, the French public health agency said. He has no symptoms and is isolating at his home in the central city of Tours.\nMeanwhile, health authorities in the Madrid region said they had confirmed the U.K. variant in four people, all of whom are in good health. Regional health chief Enrique Ruiz Escudero said the new strain had arrived when an infected person flew into Madrid’s airport.\nWATCH | Queen’s Christmas message one of hope, gratitude:\nThe Queen’s annual Christmas message was one of hope for a world torn apart by the pandemic, but also of gratitude for the sacrifices so many have made. 1:59\nIn her annual Christmas address, Queen Elizabeth, who has spent much of the year isolating at Windsor Castle with her husband, Prince Philip, delivered a heartfelt message of hope praising the “indomitable spirit” of those who have risen “magnificently” to the challenges of the pandemic.\nThe 94-year-old queen and Prince Philip, 99, were setting an example by not visiting relatives as usual over Christmas.}}
{{BREAKING NEWS Capitol is on lockdown as pro-Trump demonstrators try to break into the building Full Story}}
{{DENVER (KDVR) -- The pandemic has taken a hit on the United States economy and many people across the county and here in Colorado are struggling with unemployment but reports from the Division of Labor Force Statistics stated some people are having to leave the work force to be at home.\nThe report from National Bureau of Economic Research, stated the COVID-19 recession is tougher on women. One of the reasons stated was because they have to be home taking care of the children.}}
{{A team of chemists used molecular modelling to find out that two medications that have been known for a long time can be used to fight SARS-CoV-2. These are disulfiram, which is used to treat alcoholism, and neratinib, an experimental drug being used to treat breast cancer. The research was led by chemists from HSE University and the Zelinsky Institute of Organic Chemistry. The paper about the discovery has been in the issue of Mendeleev Communications journal.\nThe structural elements of the virus that are less subject to mutation during its evolution should be chosen as a target for the potential treatment. Otherwise, a medication effective against one strain would no longer be effective against another. The best candidates for this are conservative proteins, such as the SARS-CoV-2 virus main protease M pro. In addition to being resistant to mutations, M pro plays a major role in coronavirus replication, which means that its inhibition (blocking its function) is able to slow down or even completely stop its reproduction inside the body. Usually, the process of docking, as with a port dock and a ship entering it, is used for molecular modelling in simple cases. Two molecules participate in docking. One is called a 'ligand' (here, it is a medicine), and the other one is 'receptor' (or active site) of the target protein, such as Mpro, which can be used to 'dock'. An effective drug docks with the active site, by covalent links, which makes the enzyme dysfunctional or destroys it. But classical docking does not work in SARS-CoV-2.\nTo overcome this problem, chemists from HSE University and the Zelinsky Institute decided to use 'on-top docking', which they came up with shortly before the pandemic. 'We decided not to focus on the previously described active site, but to investigate the whole surface of M proprotein with many medications, hoping that the big calculation powers would return useful "dockings",' - says Igor Svitanko, the author of the article, Professor at the HSE Joint Department of Organic Chemistry with the RAS Zelinsky Institute of Organic Chemistry.\nThe researchers used the spatial model of SARS-CoV-2 Mpro created in January 2020 from PDB database (ID 6LU7). The potential drugs were taken from the database of medications approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The research team's own algorithms were used for modelling. The modelling data demonstrated that sulphur-containing drugs show unusually high ligand efficiency at the active centre of SARS-CoV-2 main protease Mpro, but only disulfiram 4 retains stable interactions.\nToday, it is most commonly used for treating alcoholism. Disulfiram fights SARS-CoV-2 in two ways. First, as previously demonstrated in vitro with SARS and MERS coronaviruses, it is a covalent inhibitor. In addition, it fights COVID-19 symptoms such as the significant decrease in reduced glutathione, which is an important antioxidant. This deficiency may lead to severe manifestations of the disease. In addition to disulfiram, the Russian chemists were the first to predict the potential efficiency of neratinib, an irreversible tyrosine kinase inhibitor, against SARS-CoV-2. Just recently, in 2017, FDA approved neratinib as an adjuvant treatment of breast cancer.\nModelling has shown that both potential inhibitors of the main coronavirus protease (M pro) are, presumably, covalent. For example, disulfiram can probably block the M pro enzymatic activity by thiol-disulfide exchange reaction, while neratinib binding suggests the possibility of covalent interaction similarly to covalent peptide inhibitors. The tests that were performed on July 27, 2020, at Reaction Biology Corp., a certified laboratory in the U.S., demonstrated that disulfiram really inhibits M pro in 100 nm concentration, which confirmed the results of the modelling. Unfortunately, the second substance - neratinib - demonstrated activity on M pro, but it was insufficient for clinical use.\nMeanwhile, the main achievement is the demonstration that the 'on-top docking' approach is working and returns quite realistic and controllable results. The team's plans for late 2020 and 2021 include molecular modelling of treatments for diseases that have demonstrated their harmfulness but have not yet spread over the world. (ANI)}}
{{Connie Lahn and Mike Cavallaro were featured in a Q&A article in the March issue of Collector Magazine, 'Understanding How COVID-19 Will Affect Loan Defaults.' The article was a transcript from the firm's Dec. 16 webinar, 'Raising The Bar: Understanding How COVID-19 Will Affect Loan Defaults.'}}
{{The Americus attorney accused of storming the U.S. Capitol after claiming to have been among the rioters who went inside House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office on Jan. 6 was on Thursday ordered to remain behind bars while the case against him plays out.\nThe bespectacled, gray-bearded and ponytailed William McCall Calhoun Jr., shackled at the waist and feet and wearing a soft-blue surgical mask, sat in federal court in Macon for a three-hour detention hearing where a judge ruled Calhoun a potential danger were he released from custody.\nCalhoun, 58, was escorted in by five U.S. Marshals and represented by an appointed lawyer. He said nothing for the record — though he was never asked to — as prosecutors laid out alleged evidence against him in their efforts to keep him jailed.\nCalhoun was arrested in Macon on Friday after federal agents tracked him down at his sister’s house. Though he maintains a home inside his Sumter County law practice some 75 miles away, he had been staying at his sister’s place for a week or so in the wake of the Washington D.C., riot.\nHe faces charges that include violent entry and entering a restricted building.\nRifles, shotguns and ammo found in house\nIn his bedroom at the Macon house where he was arrested, investigators said they found a Glock pistol and brass knuckles on the nightstand along with four rifles, including a pair of AR-15-style weapons, and four shotguns. Ammunition boxes nearby were said to contain hundreds if not more than 1,000 rounds.\nAgents were also said to have found a scarf and a baseball cap they used confirm his identity as one of the people in photographs and videos taken of the Capitol mob.\nOn the witness stand Thursday, FBI agent Timothy D. Armentrout — who had been informed by a tipster in November of “threatening” social media posts purportedly made by Calhoun — read aloud a number of the remarks.\nOne on Calhoun’s Facebook account the day of the Capitol attack included a picture of a throng outside the building, which read, “We’re going to get inside the Capitol before this ends.”\nAnother posting on his Facebook page from Jan. 6 mentioned how “we overran multiple police barricades and stormed the building. ... Somebody yelled push through, so we did.”\nThe same post mentioned a breach of Pelosi’s office: “Crazy Nancy probably would have been torn into little pieces but she was nowhere to be seen.”\nOther posts linked to Calhoun from days prior included the phrases “stack up body bags,” “sling hot lead” and “slaughter.” Calhoun also boasted online of being able to make a “head shot” with a rifle from 200 meters.\nProsecutors showed a Twitter post that they say Calhoun wrote a couple of weeks before the election: “When Trump makes the call, millions of heavily armed, pissed off patriots are coming to Washington.”\nCalhoun’s lawyer, Tim Saviello, referring to his client’s presence in the nation’s capital on Jan. 6, said in court Thursday that Calhoun “admits he trespassed but did it for the love of his country.”\nSaviello called Calhoun’s sister, Mary Calhoun, to the stand to explain that were her brother to be set free to await indictment or trial that he would be welcome in her home.\n“He wouldn’t hurt anyone,” she said.\nShe said she had kept her brother’s dog while he went to Washington and that before he left she asked William Calhoun if he was taking any weapons. She said he told her he was not, that it was illegal.\n“I felt like it was going to be OK,” she said of the trip.\nA ‘dangerous and violent ideology’\nIn the end, despite William Calhoun’s lack of a criminal history and people he knows vouching for his character in affidavits, magistrate Judge Charles H. Weigle said Calhoun’s statements on social media show “that he has been corrupted by or seduced by the dangerous and the violent ideology that considers the United States to be in a civil war ... and anyone that voted Democrat to be worthy of execution.”\nWeigle described Calhoun’s online language as “extremely violent” and included such words and phrases as “slaughtering,” “head shots,” “hanging President Biden” and “tearing Nancy Pelosi to shreds.”\nAnd when Calhoun was arrested, the judge added, he was “armed to the teeth.”\nWeigle went on to say that “the biggest issue” Calhoun faced when it came to determining whether he was a threat to society pretrial was this: That Calhoun had acted on claims he would be at the Capitol on Jan. 6.\n“You bragged about it,” the judge said. “You said that it was your patriotic duty. ... And crossed a sacred, sacred line. That was an act of extreme violence by every single person (there).”\n‘You don’t respect the Capitol’\nWeigle spoke of the august, century-old courtroom they were inside Thursday at the corner of Third and Mulberry streets in downtown Macon.\nThe judge said such buildings, not unlike the Capitol, “reflect the majesty of the law and the Constitution of the United States. ... And the Capitol building is the pinnacle of that. When you and your friends went in there and tore the place to shreds, (and) killed five people, including a police officer, you showed that ... there was nothing that would hold you back except force.”\nThe result, Weigle said, was that 25,000 National Guard members had to stand guard over Wednesday’s presidential inauguration, a fact the judge termed “a shame ... for our entire country.”\nWeigle, in closing, told Calhoun, “You don’t respect the Capitol Police, you don’t respect the Capitol building of the United States, I don’t have any reason to believe that you will respect anything I tell you to do. ... I have no comfort with sending a probation officer to your house to meet with you. I would be afraid for their life. I would be afraid for my life ... based on what you’ve said and what you’ve done.”\nThe Associated Press contributed to this report.}}
{{“\nGlobal Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Market Dynamics\nThis QY Research report on Global Rapid Food Pathogen Testing market aspires to serve as a requisite guide and ready-to-refer handbook to assist readers in identifying major growth influencers, prevalent opportunities as well as tried and tested business techniques that collectively lead to optimistic growth output, despite challenges and unprecedented events. Request a PDF Sample Copy of this report @ https://www.orbisresearch.com/contacts/request-sample/5166786?utm_source=G0vind The report has included significant details about various facets covering manufacturer activities to offset the challenges prevalent during COVID-19. This report by QY Research further sheds light on a slew of factors presented as under: Drivers and Influencers: This particular segment of the report specifically addresses and discusses elements that directly leverage high potential growth in the global Rapid Food Pathogen Testing market Limitations and Restraints: In this section, readers are presented with decisive understanding on various growth deterrents as well as barriers prevalent across regions, with country-specific derivation, conclude research professionals at QY Research. Opportunities: A clear reference of numerous growth opportunities as well as plausible growth enablers that collectively induce a rewarding growth trail. Place a Direct Purchase order @ https://www.orbisresearch.com/contact/purchase-single-user/5166786?utm_source=G0vind Type & Application based Analysis: Global Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Market\nFurther in the subsequent sections of the report, this elaborate research presentation by QY Research on global Rapid Food Pathogen Testing market also portrays minute details in terms of workability and diverse applicability of the various products, mimicking end-user segment needs. This dedicated section of the report presents in-depth analysis of the market that identifies the market into a broad category of product types developed and commercialized in terms of user needs and convenience. Types: Convenience-Based Technology\nPcr-Based Technology\nImmunoassay-Based Technology\nOthers Applications: Institutions\nCommercial Testing\nPrivate Testing Gauging Region-wise Growth: Global Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Market\nâ€¢ Furthermore in the report by QY Research, with significant advances in regional domain, the report exhibits decisive information and thorough understanding on a range of regional domains in the aforementioned Rapid Food Pathogen Testing market, illustrating inputs on crucial growth hubs comprising marketing strategies that collectively lead to high end growth and steady revenue generation in the global Rapid Food Pathogen Testing market.\nâ€¢ Additionally, QY Research report also portrays a clear outlook of country-specific events and developments that have also been minutely examined in the report to induce clear understanding amongst report readers and aspiring new entrants besides optimally influencing revenue generation business discretion amongst lead players in the global Rapid Food Pathogen Testing market. Browse the complete report @ https://www.orbisresearch.com/reports/index/global-and-united-states-rapid-food-pathogen-testing-market-size-status-and-forecast-2020-2026?utm_source=G0vind\nReport Offerings in a Gist:\no Considering utmost reader convenience and favorable business discretion, this thoughtful documentation on Rapid Food Pathogen Testing market attempts to arrange the various marketing strategies and techniques in a sectional representation, encompassing various industry-wise fragments and sectorial representation\no The report is systematically arranged in a top-bottom investigative pattern to highlight factors such as development impetus, untapped opportunities as well as clientele, thus echoing reader expectations from the report.\nTable of Content:\nChapter One: Report Overview\n1.1 Study Scope\n1.2 Market Analysis by Type\n1.2.1 Global Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Market Size Growth Rate by Type: 2020 VS 2026\n1.2.2 Rapid Food Pathogen Testing APP\n1.2.3 Others\n1.3 Market by Application\n1.3.1 Global Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Market Share by Application: 2020 VS 2026\n1.3.2 Male\n1.3.3 Female\n1.4 Study Objectives\n1.5 Years Considered\nChapter Two: Global Growth Trends\n2.1 Global Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Market Perspective (2015-2026)\n2.2 Global Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Growth Trends by Regions\n2.2.1 Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Market Size by Regions: 2015 VS 2020 VS 2026\n2.2.2 Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Historic Market Share by Regions (2015-2020)\n2.2.3 Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Forecasted Market Size by Regions (2021-2026)\n2.3 Industry Trends and Growth Strategy\n2.3.1 Market Trends\n2.3.2 Market Drivers\n2.3.3 Market Challenges\n2.3.4 Market Restraints\nChapter Three: Competition Landscape by Key Players\n3.1 Global Top Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Players by Market Size\n3.1.1 Global Top Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Players by Revenue (2015-2020)\n3.1.2 Global Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Revenue Market Share by Players (2015-2020)\n3.2 Global Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Market Share by Company Type (Tier 1, Tier Chapter Two: and Tier 3)\n3.3 Players Covered: Ranking by Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Revenue\n3.4 Global Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Market Concentration Ratio\n3.4.1 Global Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Market Concentration Ratio (CRChapter Five: and HHI)\n3.4.2 Global Top Chapter Ten: and Top 5 Companies by Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Revenue in 2019\n3.5 Key Players Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Area Served\n3.6 Key Players Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Product Solution and Service\n3.7 Date of Enter into Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Market\n3.8 Mergers & Acquisitions, Expansion Plans\nChapter Four: Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Breakdown Data by Type (2015-2026)\n4.1 Global Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Historic Market Size by Type (2015-2020)\n4.2 Global Rapid Food Pathogen Testing Forecasted Market Size by Type (2021-2026)\nContinuedâ€¦..\nAbout Us :\nOrbis Research (orbisresearch.com) is a single point aid for all your market research requirements. We have vast database of reports from the leading publishers and authors across the globe. We specialize in delivering customized reports as per the requirements of our clients. We have complete information about our publishers and hence are sure about the accuracy of the industries and verticals of their specialization. This helps our clients to map their needs and we produce the perfect required market research study for our clients.\nContact Us :}}
{{Hubli (Karnataka) [India], May 30 (ANI): The caterers in Karnataka's Hubli are facing immense hardships due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the country.\nIn big cities functions such as marriage, birthday, and other parties are usually monitored by event management groups who take care of preparing food services and other activities.\nHowever, in smaller cities, catering services are provided by individuals or small groups. These groups consist of poor women who are mostly from slum areas, and women working on daily wages. This year, due to the lockdown no marriages and functions were held, leaving the catering units in heavy loss.\nEven after some relaxations were announced during the fourth phase of lockdown by the Centre, that a gathering of not more than 50 persons during wedding ceremonies is permitted, the catering units aren't earning much.\n"A lot of women are associated with the catering units, most of them are poor. Our payments aren't much, but during the season, our payments increase. We faced a lot of problems due to the lockdown, orders were cancelled, labourers also didn't have money or something to eat, so we have to support them too. We have suffered a loss of around three to four lakh," said Satturam Malik, caterer.\n"We get a lot of work during the wedding seasons, and in that, a lot of poor women work, and there are facing a lot of hardships. Everyone has received help, only caterers haven't got anything. Let's see what the government does. With only 50 members to serve, not much income is generated. Even the staff is scared to step out due to corona," said Mangala Hegade, caterer.\n"It's been two months since we're at home, we have to make arrangements to earn," said Swati, a worker. (ANI)}}
{{Print & Digital Access\nStay in the know all year long with these benefits:\nDelivery to your office in downtown Chicago or mailed outside our hand-delivery zone.\nUnlimited access to chicagolawbulletin.com.\nAccess to our e-edition and mobile site.\nBreaking news alerts, Morning Lineup and Afternoon Headlines.\nExclusive access to events, discounts and more.\nOrder now, or call 312-644-2394 or email Subscription@LawBulletinMedia.com for details.}}
{{This article is republished here with permission from The Associated Press . This content is shared here because the topic may interest Snopes readers; it does not, however, represent the work of Snopes fact-checkers or editors.\nRead our special coverage, contribute to support our mission, and submit any tips or claims you see here. Rumors are surging in the wake of George Floyd’s death and resulting protests against police violence and racial injustice in the United States. Stay informed.our special coverage,to support our mission, and submit any tips or claims you see\nMINNEAPOLIS (AP) — The fate of a former Minneapolis police officer who pressed his knee into George Floyd’s neck as the Black man said he couldn’t breathe will be decided by 12 jurors picked after extensive grilling about their views on police and the justice system.\nJury selection begins Monday in the trial of Derek Chauvin, who is charged with second-degree murder and manslaughter in Floyd’s death. Picking a jury is expected to take at least three weeks, as prosecutors and defense attorneys try to weed out people who may be biased against them.\n“You don’t want jurors who are completely blank slates, because that would mean they’re not in tune at all with the world,” Susan Gaertner, a former prosecutor, said. “But what you want is jurors who can set aside opinions that have formed prior to walking into the courtroom and give both sides a fair hearing.”\nFloyd was declared dead May 25 after Chauvin, who is white, pressed his knee against Floyd’s neck for about nine minutes, holding his position even after Floyd went limp as he was handcuffed and lying on his stomach. Floyd’s death sparked sometimes violent protests in Minneapolis and beyond, and led to a nationwide reckoning on race.\nChauvin and three other officers were fired; the others face an August trial on aiding and abetting charges.\nChauvin’s attorney, Eric Nelson, argued that pretrial publicity of the case and the subsequent violent unrest in Minneapolis would make it impossible to find an impartial jury in Hennepin County. But Judge Peter Cahill said last year that moving the trial probably wouldn’t cure the problem of a potentially tainted jury pool because “no corner of the State of Minnesota” has been shielded from pretrial publicity.\nThe potential jurors — who must be at least 18, U.S. citizens and residents of Hennepin County — were sent questionnaires to determine how much they have heard about the case and whether they’ve formed any opinions. Besides biographical and demographic information, jurors were asked about prior contacts with police, whether they have protested against police brutality and whether they believe the justice system is fair.\nSome of the questions get specific, such as how often a potential juror has watched the bystander video of Floyd’s arrest, or whether they carried a sign at a protest and what that sign said.\nMike Brandt, a local defense attorney, said prosecutors will likely seek out jurors who have favorable opinions on the Black Lives Matter movement or might have more outrage over Floyd’s death, while Chauvin’s attorneys would likely favor jurors who support the police.\nUnlike typical jury selection proceedings, this jury pool will be questioned one by one instead of in a group. The judge, defense attorney and prosecutors will all get to ask questions. The defense can object to up to 15 potential jurors without giving a reason; prosecutors can block up to nine with no reason given. The other side can object to these so-called peremptory challenges if they believe the sole reason for disqualifying a juror is race or gender.\nBoth sides can also argue to dismiss an unlimited number of jurors “for cause,” meaning they must provide a reason why they believe that juror shouldn’t serve. Those situations can get into some detailed machinations, Brandt said, and it’s up to the judge to decide whether a juror stays or goes.\n“Sometimes there is some tortured questioning,” Brandt said.\nHe said that even if a juror says they have had a negative interaction with the police, or a negative opinion about Black Lives Matter, the key will be trying to find out whether they can put those past experiences or opinions aside and be fair.\n“We all walk into these with biases. The question is, can you put those biases aside and be fair in this case,” he said.\nJury selection will end after 14 people are picked – 12 jurors who will deliberate the case and two alternates who won’t be part of deliberations unless needed. The jurors will be escorted to the courthouse daily and sequestered during deliberations. Their names will be kept confidential until further order of the court.\nThe number of seats in the courtroom has been limited to maintain social distancing due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and seats for jurors have been spaced out. Like others in the courtroom, jurors will be required to wear masks.\nThe earliest opening statements will begin is March 29.}}
{{The health secretary has said there are "brighter times" ahead as the coronavirus vaccine rollout continues, but warned the public: "Don't blow it now."\n"We are on the route out. We are protecting the most vulnerable. We are getting the virus under control," Matt Hancock told a Downing Street news conference.\nLive COVID news from UK and around the world\n"Together, I know that we can do it and we have got to stick at it."\nHe was speaking as the latest government data revealed a total of 4,514,602 COVID-19 jabs have been administered in the UK.\nAdvertisement\nThis consists of 4,062,501 first doses and 452,301 second doses.\nMr Hancock said 10 new mass vaccination centres had opened in the UK on Monday, with some areas, like Slough, having already vaccinated their entire care home population.\nBut he also urged Britons to stick to the rules around social distancing and hygiene, as the programme continued to be rolled out.\nHe said the numbers of deaths need to be falling and pressure on the NHS reducing before measures can begin to be eased, along with the vaccine programme working and there not being the emergence of more new variants of the virus.\nNHS England's national medical director preached patience, saying that it will be "some time" before the vaccine begins to reduce the pressure on hospitals.\nProfessor Stephen Powis, appearing alongside the health secretary, said: "It is absolutely critical that we continue to stick to those social distancing rules that are in place. That we don't rely yet on vaccines coming to our rescue.\n"It will be some time before the effects of the vaccination programme are seen through into reducing pressure on hospitals. We all have a role to play in reducing the risk of transmission."\nAsked about lower numbers of vaccinations being administered at weekends, the health secretary said the programme is "absolutely delivering a full seven-day service and we are prepared to go 24/7".\nHe added that people should not "read too much into an individual day's data", adding: "We are shovelling it out as fast as we can."\nWith regional variations in the vaccine rollout becoming apparent in recent weeks, Mr Hancock said the government was "prioritising the supply of the vaccine into those parts of the country that need to complete the over-80s".\nHe added: "The critical thing is to make sure that everybody can get it, that we're putting more supply into the areas that have got more to do.\n"[The] final thing I'd say on this point is that supply is the rate-limiting factor, the NHS have brilliantly been able to deliver the amount of supply that we have and that we have available ready to go out."\nMinisters have set a target of offering a jab to everyone in the top four priority groups by the middle of February.\nAfter that, the government will move to people in the remaining five priority groups.\nPlease use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player Easing will be gradual, not 'open sesame'\nIn response to a question from Sky's health correspondent Ashish Joshi, Mr Hancock said there should be a "national debate" on who gets the vaccine once the priority list has been worked through.\n"After that it is essentially about protecting people as well as possible according to essentially a judgment who should come next," he said.\n"That is why I think we should have a debate about it. After that, it is really about protecting against transmission and making sure that we can get life back to normal as soon as possible."\nAlso appearing at the news conference was Dr Susan Hopkins, chief medical adviser for NHS Test and Trace.\nShe said it was currently "very difficult" to put a date on when schools will reopen for all pupils in England.}}
{{The Covid-19 pandemic has pushed the private medical industry to a crossroads. Costs are rising but not revenue, and on top of this, the industry has recognised that it needs to revamp some of its practices for the 21st century.\nDr Prasanna H M, the president of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), says the industry is looking to set up centralised databases to allow patient medical histories to be accessed by doctors across hospitals while creating a larger cluster cooperative which would allow hospitals in an area to pool manpower and resources.\nOn the flip side, a focus on higher technology use will herald a substantial increase in private healthcare costs, PHANA warns. This could further separate the poor from quality private healthcare. As the industry also tries to reconcile with the lessons learned from the pandemic, it grapples with serious holdover problems from the first wave such as profiteering due to governmental loopholes, especially when it comes to biomedical waste disposal and oxygen supply.\nHow has Covid-19 affected the way private medical industry operates?\nThere has been a 50% decline of in-person consulting. Doctors are adopting teleconsultation and telemedicine. Secondly, this increased reliance on technology is causing the slow demise of clinical examinations, which is being replaced by technologically-aided medical investigations. For example, the use of CT and MRI scans and blood tests is increasing. Doctors want better diagnosis and less interfacing with patients.\nWon’t bringing in advanced technologies increase the general cost of healthcare?\nOf course, it will. Not just because of higher tech use, but also because doctors and hospitals have become more focused on hygiene and can no longer accommodate the same load of patients as before the pandemic, due to social-distancing. But salaries and expenditures cannot be reduced. This is placing an increased financial burden on hospital administrators. In the end, that burden will be placed on patients.\nWill this trend not potentially make private healthcare unaffordable for masses?\nOut-of-pocket costs are rising. It will become difficult for the poor and even for the middle class to access quality healthcare. The situation is setting up a scenario where more people will have to buy insurance and other medical coverage. But in India, insurance penetration is low. In urban areas, it is only about 30%.\nIndia's lack of a centralised medical database with patient histories has been a major stumbling block to accurate diagnosis and better healthcare. Is anything being done to correct this?\nA central medical database accessible to all doctors is a major ambition of PHANA. In the US, there are two to three central medical databases which are linked to insurance coverage and companies. Our idea is that data which is available on one platform should be available on another platform when there is an emergency.\nThis would require a lot of scaling up in associated technologies, presumably?\nYes, we will need more people for data analytics, but also we need procedures to set in place for uniformity in data collection.\nDuring the pandemic, concerns were raised that private hospitals were not coordinating properly. Is that a fair characterisation?\nNo. As soon as the private sector was brought in to handle Covid-19 patients in June, we adopted cluster management to pool our resources. We did this on a zonal basis. We ourselves called other hospitals to arrange ICU beds. If one hospital had a problem, others shared the load. All of this was done off-hand, without an app being involved. The system worked about 60% to 70% of the time. All hospitals were involved, including a big chain such as Apollo. People put their egos aside.\nSome officials lament that the private sector did not get properly involved in the fight against Covid.\nI am proud to tell you that once the private sector got involved, we bore the brunt of Covid-19 hospitalisations. Our ICUs took all the government’s critical care cases. The number of people dying in the streets came down. The mortality rate came down. There were initially hiccups, yes.\nHave there been improvements since?\nWe now have a toll-free number to relay, in real time, how many beds are available. PHANA is, however, looking to implement a software which is being used in Delhi for bed allocation.\nIs the private medical sector ready for a potential second wave of Covid-19 cases?\nLoopholes in government regulations will cause major problems if a second wave ensues. One of the concerns is the price of medical waste management which saw a 700% hike in because the government initially did not fix prices. Through negotiations with waste disposal companies, we reduced the cost of disposal from Rs 75 to 90 to Rs 50.80, which is still five times more than what it was in the pre-pandemic period: Rs 10 to Rs 13. Another problem is oxygen supplies. Operators have found a way around price controls by charging a bigger transportation rate than the cost of the oxygen itself.\nWhat lessons have been learned from the pandemic so far?\nWe have learned that every rupee is important. We have learned how to cut costs and increase productivity. In the pre-Covid days, most hospitals used to dole out discounts. This has stopped because everybody has been squeezed.}}
{{Abbotsford nurse Kendall Skuta recently shared a photo of what she said is her breaking point during the pandemic. She urged everyone to follow public orders and take COVID-19 more seriously. (Instagram)\nAn Abbotsford nurse has taken to social media to express the serious nature and consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic.\nKendall Skuta, a nurse at Abbotsford Regional Hospital and Cancer Centre, shared a photo on Tuesday on Instagram of what she called her breaking point of the pandemic.\nSkuta, a 2013 Rick Hansen Secondary School grad, has been a nurse for four years and also works at the Abbotsford COVID-19 testing site at the University of the Fraser Valley.\nThe post and photo were from earlier this month after she had just witnessed a COVID-19 patient go into cardiac arrest. CPR was performed on the man for 35 minutes, but he did not survive. Prior to contracting COVID-19 he had no respiratory or cardiac issues. Skuta said the man was under 60 years old.\nHis wife was contacted with the news, a phone call that Skuta herself has to make many times during the pandemic.\n“The amount of death I’ve seen in the last year weighs on me every day,” she stated in the post. “I can’t count the number of times I’ve ran to a bathroom or an empty stock room to take 5 minutes to cry by myself behind my mask. But after those five minutes, I have to pick myself up and do my job.”\nSkuta said for the mental health of herself and her colleagues, she is urging the public to take the virus seriously and follow all public health recommendations.\n“Please, I’m begging you all,” she added. “Stay home, wear a mask, and get vaccinated if you’re eligible. We are all exhausted, and I don’t know how much more pain my heart can take.”\nRELATED: Toddler marks youngest British Columbian to die related to COVID-19\nRELATED: B.C. nurses issue plea for all to follow health orders as hospitalizations spike\nabbotsfordCoronavirus}}
{{Breaking News\nMore than 1 million people in England currently infected with Covid-19, PM says\nBoris Johnson was speaking at a Downing Street press conference. Picture: PA\nBy Maddie Goodfellow\nMore than 1 million people in England are currently infected with Covid-19, the Prime Minister has said.\nQuoting newly released figures published by the Office for National Statistics during a Downing Street press conference, the Prime Minister said "there will still be long weeks ahead" as he showed the grim statistics.\nIt comes as Covid cases in the UK rose by 60,916 on Tuesday, the highest ever daily rise seen during the pandemic.\nThe Government also said a further 830 people had died within 28 days of testing positive for Covid-19 as of Tuesday.\nThe Prime Minister told the public that an estimated 1.1 million people in private households in England had Covid-19 between 27 December and 2 January.\nThis is the equivalent of around 2.06% of the population, or one in 50 people.\nIt represents a rise from 800,900 people, or one in 70, who were estimated to have Covid-19 in the period 17 to 23 December.\nThe figures do not include people staying in hospitals, care homes or other institutional settings.\nFurther ONS figures show that in London, an estimated one in 30 people in private households had Covid-19 between December 27 and January 2.\nThe figure for south-east England, eastern England and north-west England is estimated to be one in 45; for the East Midlands it is one in 50; for north-east England one in 60; and for the West Midlands and Yorkshire & the Humber one in 65.\nFor south-west England the estimate is one in 135.\nDuring the Downing Street press conference, the PM also said that the number of patients in hospitals in England is now 40 per cent higher than at the first peak in April.\nHe also said that case rates have increased by 70% in the UK in the two weeks to 30 December.\nProblems with the new variant, combined with the worst period of winter, led to a "significant increase" in the number of people testing positive for the virus in December, he says.\nThe PM also took a moment to praise NHS and care workers who he says are "grappling" with the new coronavirus variant and thanked them for their work while he tries to "put an invisible shield" around the elderly and vulnerable in the form of vaccination.\nDiscussing the decision to lockdown England, Mr Johnson said: "I believe that when everybody looks at the position we’re in people understand overwhelmingly that we have no choice.\n"When the Office of National Statistics is telling us that more than 2% of the population is now infected – that’s over one million people in England – and when today we have reported another 60,000 new cases.\nProfessor Chris Whitty described one in 50 people having the virus as "really quite a large number indeed."\nEngland's chief medical officer told the Downing Street press conference, citing the ONS estimates, said that the second lockdown brought down rates.\n"But then we had the problems with the new variant and the worst period of winter combining to lead to a significant increase since that time.\n"And we're now into a situation where, across the country as a whole, roughly one in 50 people have got the virus," he continued.}}
{{Nurse Sandra Lindsay receives the second dose of a Pfizer coronavirus disease (COVID-19) vaccine, at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in the Queens borough of New York City, U.S., January 4, 2021. (REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton/Pool)\nAUSTIN (KXAN) — Texas will direct most of the COVID-19 vaccine it received from the federal government to large providers, the Department of State Health Services announced in a release Thursday.\nThese hubs must be able to vaccinate more than 100,000 people and will provide the vaccine to people who are at greater risks of hospitalization and death, as well as front-line health care workers. That includes those in groups 1A and 1B.\nDSHS determines the provider’s capacity to operate large community vaccination sites. It will publish a list of vaccine hub providers later this week. There will be a “simpler” way to sign up for an appointment, it said, but didn’t provide details beyond that each provide must have a registration phone number and website.\nAdditional vaccine will be distributed to smaller providers in other parts of the state.\nOverall, large and small providers combined will receive a total of about 200,000 doses of the vaccine next week. That will be the last week the state is required to reserve doses to vaccinate residents and staff of long-term care facilities under the federal pharmacy-LTC partnership.\nBecause the number of doses are limited, partially because manufacturers have capacity limitations, remains limited, it will take time for Texas to receive enough vaccine for people in the priority populations. Supply is expected to increase in coming months and additional vaccines are in clinical trials before being authorized by the Food and Drug Administration.}}
{{National Apprentice Week runs between the 8th-14th February and this year the team at Lee Marley Brickwork Ltdare celebrating their amazing apprentices and how well they’ve adapted to the changes in training that Covid-19 has created.\nLee Marley Brickwork (LMB) is one of the UK’s leading integrated brickwork, scaffolding and stone sub-contractors. The company recently employed Apprentice Training Manager Christian Hatherall-Good who is currently looking after 35 apprentices, (9 scaffold and 26 brickwork). Students are working on sites such as Oval Village Vauxhall with Berkeley Homes and Chelsea Barracks for Multiplex.\nChristian comments: “I believe that training on the job through an apprenticeship is the best way to learn. You can earn a wage while learning. I believe that real life learning is important, but cannot be all of the learning, as apprentices need to have the opportunity in a college or training centre to practice new skills, gain knowledge and have the opportunity to make mistakes, without it being detrimental to the build of the project and time constraints.”\nLMB Managing Director Lee Marley commented “As a former apprentice bricklayer I appreciate the opportunities that a quality apprenticeship can offer. It is also essential for the construction industry to encourage young talent into the sector and focus on evolving skills in order to improve productivity.”\nLMB has a firm belief in the need to develop the next generation of bricklayers, scaffolders, stone masons and steel fixers. Modern methods of construction are continually evolving, and the company want to ensure that the workforce of the future is equipped with the skills to adapt to this. The company has formed partnerships with Brooklands College, for brickwork, and the CITB, for scaffolding. This allows them to incorporate their own syllabus into the apprentice’s curriculum meaning that they are fully prepared to meet the changing needs of the construction industry.\nThe company continue to have a close relationship with a number of other colleges which allows them to offer greater geographic and trade specific coverage in their recruitment programme.\nHow a construction company has filled training gaps in the absence of colleges\nDuring the first Covid lockdown, it became clear that LMB apprentices would not receive the same theory and practical training they would have done at college and on site. This lockdown, with colleges being closed, the company have responded to the situation and developed a revised training plan, so their apprentices do not miss out on either the theory or practical side of their training. Before Covid restrictions set in, an apprenticeship at the company allowed apprentices to work on site four days a week and attend College one full day. In response to the current situation, the apprentices continue to have remote learning from the College tutor and from the Training Manager on their usual college day.\nChristian continues to visit the apprentices on site in controlled and social distanced conditions in order to carry out teaching and provide guidance to the apprentices while they work. The apprentices are usually placed in pairs on projects.\nMany of the company’s current apprentices are from Brooklands College. Christian has been working closely with the College and between both parties a plan for training the apprentices has been developed. This includes Google classroom groups with a wide a range of resources available such as ‘how to’ videos, Workbooks, PowerPoints, scenario assignments, worksheets and revision quizzes. On the apprentices’ usual college day, they attend at least two, one-and-a-half-hour theory sessions on Google MEET’s group video call with their tutor. Christian has also organised a one-to-one review session for each apprentice on |Google MEET’s with their tutor and on-site assessor. The aim being to check on the student’s wellbeing, work progress, targets and to provide advice on any work they needed help with.\nNaomi Hamilton, 19, has just completed her bricklaying apprentice NVQ2 and will be beginning her NVQ Level 3 shortly, after that she’d look to getting her gold CSCS card and one day would like to be a supervisor. Naomi won the first ever inaugural Female Trainee brickwork competition sponsored by Forterra in 2019. She has the following advice for others looking to get into the construction industry: “Don’t give up, keep at it, your hard work will be rewarded. Ask questions, you’ll find solutions which you can apply to your work. Keep building your skillset – challenge yourself. If you’re a female don’t be afraid, believe in yourself and prove people wrong, you can do this in a male orientated industry.”\nThe next step for LMB will be to open their own training centre that would be at the forefront of brickwork and scaffolding training in the UK. Watch this space!\nFor more information about Lee Marley Brickwork Ltd, please visit: www.leemarley.com. The company currently offers both brickwork and scaffolding apprenticeships in order to bring the next generation of tradesmen into the construction.\nTo find out more about apprenticeship and careers opportunities at LMB please email jobs@leemarley.com}}
{{More than 20,000 AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine appointments booked in Alberta on first day of lowered age eligibility\nArticle content\nAlberta Health Services has seen a large uptick in people booking appointments for a COVID-19 AstraZeneca vaccine on the first day the eligible age to do so was dropped to 40.\nThe provincial government announced Monday that starting Tuesday everyone born in 1981 or earlier could receive an AstraZeneca shot. Doses were previously only available to those aged 55 and older.\nWe apologize, but this video has failed to load.\ntap here to see other videos from our team. Try refreshing your browser, or More than 20,000 AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine appointments booked in Alberta on first day of lowered age eligibility Back to video\nAs of 10:30 a.m. Tuesday, 24,500 people had booked to receive their vaccine online and over the phone, said AHS spokesman Kerry Williamson. He said 6,500 appointments were booked in the Edmonton Zone and 15,000 were booked in the Calgary Zone.\n“This is a higher uptake in one morning, than over the entirety of last week, when eligibility was limited to Albertans aged 55 and over,” said Williamson in an email. “For context, 4,525 people received the AstraZeneca vaccine in Edmonton, and 5,559 people received AstraZeneca in Calgary, between April 12 and April 18.”}}
{{Gov. Lee signed a new executive order on Friday authorizing National Guard troops to serve as nurses or ambulance drivers.\nKNOXVILLE, Tenn. — Tennessee is preparing to send the National Guard into hospitals to fight the COVID-19 surge.\nGovernor Bill Lee signed a new executive order on Friday authorizing National Guard troops to serve as nurses, ambulance drivers and provide diagnostic testing for COVID-19.\nThe executive order has been signed due to the continuous increase in cases, deaths, and hospitalization related to COVID-19 across the state.\nAccording to the executive order, "the Governor is authorized to suspend laws and rules if necessary to cope with an emergency, utilize all available and local resources needed to combat an emergency."\nThe new order also allows hospitals and nursing homes to increase their number of beds and temporarily establish a hospital, nursing home, home-based, and diagnostic services at any location if necessary to treat COVID-19 patients.\nThey are temporarily allowed to exceed certificate of need requirements.\nAnd to help with the strain on health care workers if there are staffing shortages, Governor Lee said that certified medical assistants in hospitals could serve as nurses as long as they are supervised by a registered nurse.\nPre-license, graduate, or doctoral level audiology and speech-language pathology professionals can provide telehealth services under supervision.}}
{{WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Talks aimed at delivering a fresh infusion of coronavirus relief to American families and businesses gathered momentum in the U.S. Congress on Friday, as a bipartisan group of lawmakers worked to put the finishing touches on a new $908 billion bill.\n“There is momentum. There is momentum,” U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi told a news conference, after a government report showed job growth slowing in early November amid a resurgence of coronavirus infections.\nRepublican and Democratic lawmakers from the House and Senate continued work on a bipartisan bill that congressional leaders view as the basis for COVID-19 legislation they hope to get through Congress next week.\n“We’re in the middle of drafting as we speak, and so ... Monday is kind of the goal,” U.S. Representative Tom Reed, Republican co-chair of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus, told reporters. “This is about making sure that the money is allocated to those that are most in need.”\nPressure is mounting on Congress to help people and businesses hit hard by the surging pandemic, which has now infected 14.1 million Americans and killed more than 276,000. Health officials have warned of a dark winter ahead, saying the spread is likely to accelerate into the approaching holiday season.\nA range of emergency aid programs set in place in response to the pandemic, including additional unemployment benefits and a moratorium on renter evictions, will expire at the end of December.\n“Soon approximately 12 million Americans will lose their unemployment assistance. The fire alarm is sounding on our economy and the only question is whether Congress will respond,” the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said on Friday.\nLawmakers enacted $3 trillion in aid earlier this year but have not been able to agree on fresh relief since the spring.\nUnderscoring the urgency of a new aid package, a government report on Friday showed slowing U.S. job growth in November, with 3.9 million people out of work for at least six months and many giving up.\nHouse Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) speaks to reporters during her weekly news conference at the U.S.Capitol in Washington, U.S., December 4, 2020. REUTERS/Tom Brenner\n“The situation requires urgent action,” President-elect Joe Biden in a statement that called on the Trump administration and Congress to reach agreement on coronavirus relief.\n“But any package passed in the lame duck session is not enough. It’s just the start,” Biden added. “Congress will need to act again in January.”\nThe bipartisan group has opted not to include stimulus checks for individuals in the $908 billion bill.\nPelosi and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell spoke on Thursday about attaching new COVID-19 provisions to a $1.4 trillion omnibus spending bill to keep federal government agencies operating after Dec. 11, when current funding expires.\nBut she added that there were still issues to be resolved on the omnibus package.\n“The tone of our conversation is one that is indicative of a decision to get the job done,” Pelosi said.\nReed told reporters that disagreements over rival COVID-19 demands for state and local government aid from Democrats and liability protection for businesses from Republicans continue to pose issues.\nThe bipartisan framework, put forward this week by Reed’s group and members of the Senate, has won important support from conservative Senate Republicans.\nBut it is unclear whether McConnell would agree to such a large package after pushing to keep COVID-19 relief spending near the $500 billion mark. Earlier this week, the Kentucky Republican circulated a list of provisions that he said President Donald Trump would be willing to sign.\nWhite House economic adviser Larry Kudlow, speaking to reporters at the White House on Friday, declined to comment on whether the $908 billion bipartisan proposal was too expansive.\nHe said Trump wanted to see a “targeted” coronavirus relief bill.}}
{{Reopening Delaware segments from The Rick Jensen Show - The Bottle and Cork and Rusty Rudder are always at the top of the list for dancing and mingling to live music in Dewey. But in Phase One reopening of Delaware, social distancing doesn't mean dancing 6 feet apart. Alex Pires, owner of th…}}
{{SIOUX FALLS, S.D. (Dakota News Now) - The South Dakota Department of Health is reporting 906 new COVID-19 cases and 27 new deaths Saturday.\nThe state’s death toll is now at 1,091. The state reported an increase in active COVID-19 cases, rising to 16,202 on this Saturday.\nIn total, 68,011 people are considered recovered from the virus.\nCurrently, 512 South Dakotans are hospitalized.\nCOVID-19 patients currently occupy 18.4% of the state’s hospital beds and 48% of the state’s ICU beds. Officials say 37.6% of hospital beds and 21.8% of ICU beds are still available.\nMORE: County-by-county COVID-19 map\nCopyright 2020 Dakota News Now. All rights reserved.}}
{{Islamabad: As many as four more confirmed patients of coronavirus illness, COVID-19 belonging to Islamabad Capital Territory died of the disease in the last 24 hours taking death toll from ICT to 476 though no death was reported from Rawalpindi district from where a total of 589 patients have already lost their lives due to the illness since the advent of coronavirus in Pakistan.\nIt is important that as many as 1065 deaths have so far been reported from the twin cities out of a total of 11,560 deaths caused by the virus all across Pakistan. On Friday, the total number of patients so far confirmed positive from the region has reached 53,675 after confirmation of another 112 cases from ICT and Rawalpindi district in the last 24 hours. To date, a total of 541,031 patients have been reported from Pakistan.\nData collected by ‘The News’ on Friday reveals that another 100 cases have been reported from ICT in the last 24 hours taking tally from the federal capital to 41,176 of which 39196 patients have recovered.\nThe number of active cases from ICT was 1,504 on Friday. From Rawalpindi, ano her 12 patients were confirmed positive for COVID-19 in the last 24 hours taking total number of patients so far reported from Rawalpindi to 12,499 of which 11,645 patients have recovered.\nOut of 265 active cases of the disease from Rawalpindi district recorded on Friday, only 16 patients were undergoing treatment at the healthcare facilities in town while some 249 patients were in isolation at their homes according to district health department Rawalpindi.}}
{{Currently Reading\nAlert: West Virginia lawmaker Derrick Evans resigns after facing charges in connection with deadly riot at US Capitol}}
{{A British citizen living in Beirut said his family “feared he was dead” following Tuesday’s explosion.\nAndy Kemp, 58, spoke of the emotional moment his son discovered he was still alive after the blast “turned his office upside down”.\nHe had been working less than half a mile from the explosion site when the blast saw glass shards fired into his head and neck.\nHe thought he had been blinded by the debris, before realising it was the blood from a head wound running into his eyes.\nAfter the first explosion, Mr Kemp grabbed his phone and had enough time to type the words “uh-oh” in a group chat with his family before the second blast flung him across the room.\nHe said: “My office was turned inside out, and was on top of me. That was fairly scary. It went an eerie quiet after that, I just sat there, under a pile of stuff, the windows had been blown off, and everything had collapsed.”\nRead More Facemasks mandatory for shops in Northern Ireland as school return announced and pubs stay closed\nMr Kemp’s eldest son, Jack, 19, was at their apartment nearby when the explosion happened.\n“Jack heard the first explosion, went onto his balcony, saw the second explosion and ran inside,” Mr Kemp said.\n“As he was running inside, the two glass doors into the balcony followed him.\nHe had an injury to his leg and assumed I was dead, freaked out and sprinted to the office. I met him coming the opposite way in the corridor, which was fairly emotional.\nFrench and Lebanese firemen search in the rubble of a building (Hassan Ammar/AP)\nHis wife Jane, 51, daughter Phoebe, 12 and youngest son Max, 18, were unharmed after visiting the beach.\nAt least 100 people died and thousands more were injured in the explosion – and while there are no reports of British fatalities, details of UK citizens caught up in the devastation are still being established.\nThe father-of-three realised he was bleeding heavily and tried the hospital nearest his office, which had been badly hit.\nHe described the scene on the streets as “hell on earth”, with rubble everywhere, and people “compacted” into their cars on the streets.\nHe said: “They stuck me in the back of an ambulance with a dead guy and a bunch of people who weren’t doing very well.\n(Thibault Camus/AP)\n“There was so much blood on my phone, I couldn’t use it. I could see my wife was trying to call me, but when I tried to swipe to answer, my phone was slicked with blood.”\nHe said he was “one of the lucky ones” as shards of debris narrowly missed piercing vital veins in his neck.\nSpeaking during a visit to Warrington, England, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he was “appalled and shocked by the scenes in Lebanon”.\nHe said: “Our sympathy is very much with the people of Lebanon, of Beirut, and all the victims, their families, all those who’ve lost their homes — hundreds of thousands of people who have seen their homes damaged, one of the worst explosions we’ve seen in modern times.\n“The UK has sent HMS Enterprise to help survey the port to see what we can do to help with the repair of damage.”\nHe said the UK Government would be sending a medical team and support package of £5 m (€5.5m) to aid recovery efforts.}}
{{Self-styled militia members from Virginia, Ohio and other states made plans to storm the U.S. Capitol days in advance of the Jan. 6 attack, and then communicated in real time as they breached the building on opposite sides and talked about hunting for lawmakers, according to court documents filed Tuesday. While authorities have charged more than 100 individuals in the riot, details in the new allegations against three U.S. military veterans offer a disturbing look at what they allegedly said to one another before, during and after the attack — statements that indicate a degree of preparation and determination to rush deep into the halls and tunnels of Congress to make “citizens’ arrests” of elected officials. U.S. authorities charged an apparent leader of the Oath Keepers extremist group, Thomas Edward Caldwell, 66, of Berryville, Va., in the attack, alleging that the Navy veteran helped organize a ring of dozens who coordinated their movements as they “stormed the castle” to disrupt the confirmation of President-elect Joe Biden’s electoral college victory.\nSeveral paragraphs later, here’s what the authors of the article concede:\nThe arrests this weekend of several people with alleged ties to far-right extremist groups, including the Oath Keepers, the Proud Boys and the Three Percenters, suggest that the riot was not an entirely impulsive outburst of violence but an event instigated or exploited by organized groups. Hours of video posted on social media and pored over by investigators have focused on individuals in military-style gear moving together.\nCNN acknowledged last week that the storming of the Capitol was planned prior to Trump’s speech, reporting that, “Evidence uncovered so far, including weapons and tactics seen on surveillance video, suggests a level of planning that has led investigators to believe the attack on the US Capitol was not just a protest that spiraled out of control, a federal law enforcement official says.”\nThe CNN report and the Washington Post article completely undermine the entire case Democrats made for impeaching Trump. As I previously noted, the riot at the Capitol was either planned in advance or inspired by President Trump’s speech. It simply cannot be both. That the media is starting to acknowledge the whole thing was planned in advance now, after the bogus impeachment, is no accident.}}
{{CHICAGO (WLS) -- The holidays often mean special events and gatherings with friends and family.But because of the COVID-19 pandemic, those traditions will look and feel differently this year.Northwestern University Clinical Psychologist Dr. Inger Burnett-Zeigler shared ways to cope with this unique holiday season.Burnett-Zeigler said to get creative, think about what you can do to celebrate the holidays-- even if it breaks tradition."Taking the opportunity to plan is still an opportunity to connect with friends and loved ones, and have some joy," she said."I'm planning on cooking my first Thanksgiving meal at home," Burnett-Zeigler shared. "I will be connecting with some friends virtually."}}
{{FILE - In this Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021 file photo, supporters of President Donald Trump climb the west wall of the the U.S. Capitol in Washington. In what could be the longest of legal longshots, several of those arrested for storming the U.S. Capitol are holding out hope that President Donald Trump will use some of his last hours in office to grant all the rioters a full and complete pardon. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP\nA Georgia cop who claimed he was among “the first ones over the fence” as a mob of pro-Trump rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol could face federal charges, authorities say.\nMichael Shane Daughtry is accused of “knowingly and willfully” joining the crowd that breached the federal building Jan. 6 and “impeded, disrupted and disturbed” lawmakers’ efforts to certify the results of the presidential election, according to a probable cause affidavit released by the Justice Department on Tuesday.\nDaughtry, a Pelham Police Department officer, not only bragged online about “pushing [our] way to the very front” of the Capitol but admitted to taking part in the violent siege in a recorded phone call with a fellow department officer — who alerted the FBI, according to the DOJ.\n“We [sic] the one that tore the fence down up there,” Daughtry said, according to the affidavit. “We was the first ones over the fence. Everybody followed us.”\nOn the call, Daughtry said he got as far as the Capitol door but was forced to retreat after officers shot him and others with rubber bullets, the document said.\nThe FBI said it launched an investigation Jan. 7 after the Pelham Police Department also provided investigators with screenshots from Daughtry’s personal Facebook page, which included posts about his plans to travel to Washington, D.C., to “support [Donald] Trump and put our two cents in.”\n“We’re headed to Washington, D.C. where they’re expecting 4 million people,” he wrote two days before the riot, according to screenshots included in the affidavit. “Looks like we have have to walk 5 about miles ... but it’ll be worth it to yell crap at [Nancy] Pelosi and the rest of the idiots that left wing retards voted into office.”\nIn a post from Jan. 6, Daughtry shared a picture of the Capitol and noted how it was easy to force his way upfront because “I look like security.” He also parroted false claims that the crowd had been infiltrated by Antifa protesters, who he claimed were “bussed in” by police to “fake clash” at the Capitol, according to screenshots of his other posts shared online.\n“The violence was all stagged [sic] by the Capital Police to make us look bad,” Daughtry said, the screenshots show. “I never saw one patriot cause any damage or cause any trouble.”\nPhotos and videos from that day showed rioters scaling walls, assaulting officers and smashing windows before breaching the Capitol Rotunda and, later, the House and Senate chambers, McClatchy News reported. At least five people died in the violence, including a U.S. Capitol Police officer.\nA Georgia woman was one of three rioters who died after suffering “medical emergencies” during the siege, while another woman was shot and killed by police, officials said.\nIt’s unclear if Daughtry is still employed with the police department in Pelham, located just over 50 miles north of Tallahassee, Florida.\nMcClatchy News reached out to the Pelham Police Department for comment and is awaiting a response.}}
{{Bossip Video\nThis week is going to be CRAZY.\nToday is the Senate runoff election in Georgia between Rev. Raphael Warnock, Jon Ossoff, Kelly Loeffler, and incumbent Senator David Perdue. Last night, 55% of white women’s losing president was in the Peach State to stump for his Republican cronies. It was a strange speech on par with just about every speech Trump has ever given. Donnie spent the whole night talking about how “rigged” the election is while simultaneously telling people that they need to vote. Is it “Oochie Wally” or “One Mic”, sir?\nAnyway, outside of the bratty belly-aching, Trump took a moment to put some pressure on Mike Pence to help him subvert the will of the people once Congress convenes tomorrow to certify all the votes and declare Joe Biden the 46th President of the United States. Here’s what he said verbatim according to CNN:\n“I hope Mike Pence comes through for us, I have to tell you,” Trump admitted. “I hope that our great vice president — our great vice president, comes through for us. He’s a great guy. Of course, if he doesn’t come through, I won’t like him as much.”\nLook at this s#!t…\n“Comes through”? Mike Pence is not the weed-man. It’s not his job to pull up and serve Donald Trump. That said, Pence and his gang of other Republicans have licked so many of Trump’s boots that we get why Donald would expect them to continue to tongue-shine his steppers.\nTo be clear, Mike Pence doesn’t decide anything. His only job is to read the envelope presented to him. That envelope will have Joe Biden’s name on it.}}
{{The Americus attorney accused of storming the U.S. Capitol after claiming to have been among the rioters who went inside House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office on Jan. 6 was on Thursday ordered to remain behind bars while the case against him plays out.\nThe bespectacled, gray-bearded and ponytailed William McCall Calhoun Jr., shackled at the waist and feet and wearing a soft-blue surgical mask, sat in federal court in Macon for a three-hour detention hearing where a judge ruled Calhoun a potential danger were he released from custody.\nCalhoun, 58, was escorted in by five U.S. Marshals and represented by an appointed lawyer. He said nothing for the record — though he was never asked to — as prosecutors laid out alleged evidence against him in their efforts to keep him jailed.\nCalhoun was arrested in Macon on Friday after federal agents tracked him down at his sister’s house. Though he maintains a home inside his Sumter County law practice some 75 miles away, he had been staying at his sister’s place for a week or so in the wake of the Washington D.C., riot.\nHe faces charges that include violent entry and entering a restricted building.\nRifles, shotguns and ammo found in house\nIn his bedroom at the Macon house where he was arrested, investigators said they found a Glock pistol and brass knuckles on the nightstand along with four rifles, including a pair of AR-15-style weapons, and four shotguns. Ammunition boxes nearby were said to contain hundreds if not more than 1,000 rounds.\nAgents were also said to have found a scarf and a baseball cap they used confirm his identity as one of the people in photographs and videos taken of the Capitol mob.\nOn the witness stand Thursday, FBI agent Timothy D. Armentrout — who had been informed by a tipster in November of “threatening” social media posts purportedly made by Calhoun — read aloud a number of the remarks.\nOne on Calhoun’s Facebook account the day of the Capitol attack included a picture of a throng outside the building, which read, “We’re going to get inside the Capitol before this ends.”\nAnother posting on his Facebook page from Jan. 6 mentioned how “we overran multiple police barricades and stormed the building. ... Somebody yelled push through, so we did.”\nThe same post mentioned a breach of Pelosi’s office: “Crazy Nancy probably would have been torn into little pieces but she was nowhere to be seen.”\nOther posts linked to Calhoun from days prior included the phrases “stack up body bags,” “sling hot lead” and “slaughter.” Calhoun also boasted online of being able to make a “head shot” with a rifle from 200 meters.\nProsecutors showed a Twitter post that they say Calhoun wrote a couple of weeks before the election: “When Trump makes the call, millions of heavily armed, pissed off patriots are coming to Washington.”\nCalhoun’s lawyer, Tim Saviello, referring to his client’s presence in the nation’s capital on Jan. 6, said in court Thursday that Calhoun “admits he trespassed but did it for the love of his country.”\nSaviello called Calhoun’s sister, Mary Calhoun, to the stand to explain that were her brother to be set free to await indictment or trial that he would be welcome in her home.\n“He wouldn’t hurt anyone,” she said.\nShe said she had kept her brother’s dog while he went to Washington and that before he left she asked William Calhoun if he was taking any weapons. She said he told her he was not, that it was illegal.\n“I felt like it was going to be OK,” she said of the trip.\nA ‘dangerous and violent ideology’\nIn the end, despite William Calhoun’s lack of a criminal history and people he knows vouching for his character in affidavits, magistrate Judge Charles H. Weigle said Calhoun’s statements on social media show “that he has been corrupted by or seduced by the dangerous and the violent ideology that considers the United States to be in a civil war ... and anyone that voted Democrat to be worthy of execution.”\nWeigle described Calhoun’s online language as “extremely violent” and included such words and phrases as “slaughtering,” “head shots,” “hanging President Biden” and “tearing Nancy Pelosi to shreds.”\nAnd when Calhoun was arrested, the judge added, he was “armed to the teeth.”\nWeigle went on to say that “the biggest issue” Calhoun faced when it came to determining whether he was a threat to society pretrial was this: That Calhoun had acted on claims he would be at the Capitol on Jan. 6.\n“You bragged about it,” the judge said. “You said that it was your patriotic duty. ... And crossed a sacred, sacred line. That was an act of extreme violence by every single person (there).”\n‘You don’t respect the Capitol’\nWeigle spoke of the august, century-old courtroom they were inside Thursday at the corner of Third and Mulberry streets in downtown Macon.\nThe judge said such buildings, not unlike the Capitol, “reflect the majesty of the law and the Constitution of the United States. ... And the Capitol building is the pinnacle of that. When you and your friends went in there and tore the place to shreds, (and) killed five people, including a police officer, you showed that ... there was nothing that would hold you back except force.”\nThe result, Weigle said, was that 25,000 National Guard members had to stand guard over Wednesday’s presidential inauguration, a fact the judge termed “a shame ... for our entire country.”\nWeigle, in closing, told Calhoun, “You don’t respect the Capitol Police, you don’t respect the Capitol building of the United States, I don’t have any reason to believe that you will respect anything I tell you to do. ... I have no comfort with sending a probation officer to your house to meet with you. I would be afraid for their life. I would be afraid for my life ... based on what you’ve said and what you’ve done.”\nThe Associated Press contributed to this report.}}
{{Election officials in key battlegrounds pressed forward Thursday with presidential vote counting as Democrat Joe Biden urged patience and President Donald Trump pursued legal options, insisting the processing of ballots should be stopped.\nThe president spent Thursday at the White House, working the phones and escalating efforts to sow doubt about the outcome of the race. In a series of tweets, he pushed baseless allegations of electoral misconduct and said the ongoing vote count of ballots submitted before and on Election Day should cease. Trump followed up with an all-caps official campaign statement.\n“IF YOU COUNT THE LEGAL VOTES, I EASILY WIN THE ELECTION! IF YOU COUNT THE ILLEGAL AND LATE VOTES, THEY CAN STEAL THE ELECTION FROM US!” he contended.\nBiden, meanwhile, sought to project the appearance of a president, attending a COVID-19 briefing on Thursday. He offered reassurance that the vote counting process could be trusted.\n“Be patient, folks. Votes are being counted, and we feel good about where we are,” Biden tweeted.\nPrairie Politics newsletter Sign up for weekly updates on politics in the Sunflower State. Recaptcha SIGN UP This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.\nThe different approaches unfolded as the nation waited to learn which man would collect the 270 electoral votes needed to capture the presidency. Biden’s victories in Michigan and Wisconsin put him in a commanding position, but Trump showed no sign of giving up. It could take several more days for the vote count to conclude and a clear winner emerge.\nWith millions of ballots yet to be tabulated, Biden already had received more than 72 million votes, the most in history.\nTrump’s campaign engaged in a flurry of legal activity to try to improve the Republican president’s chances, requesting a recount in Wisconsin and filing lawsuits in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Georgia. Statewide recounts in Wisconsin have historically changed the vote tally by only a few hundred votes; Biden led by more than 20,000 ballots out of nearly 3.3 million counted.\nJudges in Georgia and Michigan quickly dismissed Trump campaign lawsuits there on Thursday.\nBiden has already won Michigan and Wisconsin. The contests in Georgia and Pennsylvania, along with Nevada and North Carolina, were tight with votes still being tabulated.\nAll-access digital subscription Connect to local news for just $4.99 a month for 12 months. VIEW OFFER\nThe Trump campaign said it was confident the president would ultimately pull out a victory in Arizona, where votes were also still being counted, including in Maricopa County, the state’s most populous area. The AP has declared Biden the winner in Arizona and said Thursday that it was monitoring the vote count as it proceeded.\n“The Associated Press continues to watch and analyze vote count results from Arizona as they come in,” said Sally Buzbee, AP’s executive editor. “We will follow the facts in all cases.”\nTrump’s legal challenges faced long odds. He would have to win multiple suits in multiple states in order to stop vote counts, since more than one state was undeclared.\nThere were no obvious grounds for the Justice Department to attempt to intervene to stop a vote count at the state level, unless the federal government could somehow assert a violation of federal voting laws or the Constitution. The department could theoretically file a brief in support of a Trump campaign lawsuit if it believed there were federal concerns at stake, but that intervention would be extraordinary.\nWhile Trump has insisted that ballot counting stop, it was unclear exactly what that included. Counting for votes received by Nov. 3 was continuing, but roughly 20 states allow ballots to be counted if postmarked by Nov. 3 but received in the days after. In some states that is as long as nine days, or even longer. Some of the deadline changes were made as a result of the pandemic, but others are just routine parts of state election laws. Trump has fixated on Pennsylvania, where the Supreme Court refused to stop a court’s ruling that allowed for a three-day extension.\nHe also said he was taking fraud claims to court – but most of the lawsuits only demand better access for campaign observers to locations where ballots are being processed and counted. A judge in Georgia dismissed the campaign’s suit there less than 12 hours after it was filed. And a Michigan judge dismissed a Trump lawsuit over whether enough GOP challengers had access to handling of absentee ballots\nBiden attorney Bob Bauer said the suits were legally “meritless.” Their only purpose, he said “is to create an opportunity for them to message falsely about what’s taking place in the electoral process.”\nIt was unclear when a national winner would be determined after a long, bitter campaign dominated by the coronavirus and its effects on Americans and the national economy. The U.S. on Wednesday set another record for daily confirmed cases as several states posted all-time highs. The pandemic has killed more than 233,000 people in the United States.\nBeyond the presidency, Democrats had hoped the election would allow the party to reclaim the Senate and pad its majority in the House. But while the voting scrambled seats in the House and Senate, it ultimately left Congress much like it began — deeply divided.\n___\nWeissert reported from Wilmington, Delaware. Associated Press writers Jill Colvin and Alexandra Jaffe in Washington contributed to this report.}}
{{“In this instance, we have a video of the incident,” Mr. Cruz said. “What we saw was wrong.”\nMr. Carlson pushed back, asking Mr. Cruz if he believed it was fair to bring a murder charge against the officer who arrested Mr. Floyd.}}
{{With thousands of pro-Trump protesters overwhelming police at the U.S. Capitol and breaching the highly secure building, several Fox News hosts and reporters initially went out of their way to describe the MAGA mob storming the chambers of Congress as “peaceful.”\nFollowing President Donald Trump’s rage-filled “Stop the Steal” speech in which he urged followers to march to the Capitol and “fight” for him and his push to overturn his election loss, the massive crowd stormed the Capitol building, injuring police officers, and causing numerous offices to be evacuated over potential threats.\nCongress also had to halt debate over the Electoral College vote as protesters made their way into the chambers and Vice President Mike Pence was eventually evacuated to safety.\nWith the Capitol Police placing the building in lockdown as the protests erupted, Fox News anchor Bret Baier first argued on air that “it doesn’t appear to be violent.”\n“It’s not like it's a siege it doesn’t seem, it seems like they are protesting,” he further shrugged.\nFellow “hard news” anchor Martha MacCallum echoed Baier’s comments as they aired scenes of chaos and reported that a police officer had just been carried away, adding that “it remains peaceful.”\nFox News reporter Griff Jenkins, who was on the streets outside the Capitol, also repeated the claim that everything was fine.\n“It has been peaceful, everything we have seen so far has been nothing but peaceful, but they are definitely fired up,” he declared. “The chants I heard the most today was, ‘Fight for Trump.’ That is what many feel they are doing here, protesting, we will see where the day goes.”\nBaier, however, broke in at that point to note that while they “are saying it is peaceful, we’re having a couple reports of people being injured in this breach of the security.” He also reported that protesters had made their way inside the building and that the police presence had been increased.\nFox News correspondent Chad Pergram broke through with some reality a bit later, telling viewers that “the mob has overtaken the process of trying to certify the Electoral College—security here at the United States Capitol has failed.”\n“Chuck Grassley, third in line to the president said demonstrators were inside the building, security here has utterly failed,” he added. “That’s a problem.”\nMacCallum, however, still found a way to put a positive spin on the anti-democratic riot that was unfolding before their eyes.\n“There is teargas being used in the rotunda, members are being told to get the gas masks under their seats, the other question, where is the vice president?” MacCallum said. “We were told he was rushed out of the chamber.”\n“This answers the question, I was under the assumption they would be safe in the chamber, that was before we realized people had breached the building and were walking through the rotunda,” she concluded.\n“This is a huge victory for these protesters. They have disrupted the system in an enormous way!”}}
{{Lebanon’s health minister said more than 50 people had been killed and over 2,700 injured in a massive explosion in Beirut port area on Tuesday that rippled through the capital.\nThe head of the Lebanese Red Cross put the number of wounded at more than 2,200, local broadcasters earlier said.\nThe blast occurred in the city’s port area, where there were warehouses with highly explosive materials, Lebanon’s internal security chief Abbas Ibrahim said.\nFootage of the blast shared around by residents on social media showed a column of smoke rising from the port district followed by an enormous blast. Those who filming what initially appeared to be a big blaze where thrown backwards by the shock.\nThe head of Lebanese Red Cross said hundreds of injured people were taken to hospitals for treatment with more still trapped in homes damaged by the explosion.\nGeorge Kettaneh told local media there was no exact figure of how many were injured as many were still trapped in homes and within the area of the blast. Others were being rescued by boat.\nLebanese broadcaster LBCI quoted Hotel Dieu Hospital in Beirut as saying that was treating more than 500 injuries and was not able to receive more. Tens of injured needed operations, the hospital said appealing for blood donations.\nLebanese president Michel Aoun called for an emergency meeting of the country’s Supreme Defence Council, according to the presidency’s Twitter account. Prime minister Hassan Diab called for a day of mourning on Wednesday. The explosion occurred three days before a UN-backed court is due to deliver a verdict in the trial of four suspects from the Shia group Hizbullah over a 2005 bombing which killed former prime minister Rafik al-Hariri and 21 other people.\nAn explosion occurred this evening in the port area of Beirut in Lebanon. Please note that all IRISHPOLBATT personnel are safe and accounted for. — Irish Polish Battalion - UNIFIL (@irishpolbatt) August 4, 2020\nIt was not immediately clear what caused the blaze that set off the blast. The governor of Beirut port told Sky News that a team of firefighters at the scene had “disappeared” after the explosion.\n“I saw a fireball and smoke billowing over Beirut. People were screaming and running, bleeding. Balconies were blown off buildings. Glass in high-rise buildings shattered and fell to the street,” said a Reuters witness.\nThe health minister told Reuters there was a “very high number” of injured. Al Mayadeen TV said hundreds were wounded.\nAnother Reuters witness said she saw heavy grey smoke near the port area and then heard an explosion and saw flames of fire and black smoke: “All the downtown area windows are smashed and there are wounded people walking around. It is total chaos.”\nThe Irish Embassy in Cairo advised any Irish citizens in Beirut who need assistance to contact the embassy. It said on Twitter: “We advise all citizens to shelter in place until they can move safely. We also advise the you follow the instructions of the Lebanese authorities.”\nPresident Michael D Higgins said in a statement: “On behalf of the people of Ireland, may I extend deepest sympathies with the people of Beirut.\n“Ireland and Lebanon have a longstanding relationship, which has included the presence of Irish troops on peacekeeping missions, and valuable relationships with villages and communities in Lebanon.\n“The hearts of the Irish people are with the Lebanese people.”\nThe Irish Polish Battalion, a joint peacekeeping force in Lebanon, said all its personnel were safe and accounted for.\nUN spokesman Farhan Haq told reporters it was not immediately clear what the cause was, and that there was no indication of any injuries to any UN personnel.\n“We do not have information about what has happened precisely, what has caused this, whether it’s accidental or man-made act,” he said.\nThe US Pentagon said: “We are aware of the explosion and are concerned for the potential loss of life due to such a massive explosion.”\nIn Cyprus, an island lying west of Lebanon, residents reported two large bangs in quick succession. One resident of the capital Nicosia said his house shook, rattling shutters. – Reuters}}
{{Meghan McCain slammed Donald Trump and the “scum of the earth” rioters at Capitol Hill during Thursday’s “The View”.\nMcCain called Wednesday’s events, which saw thousands of Trump supporters storm the U.S. Capitol building in Washington as Congress and Republican lawmakers were certifying Joe Biden’s presidential election win, “one of the great national tragedies of my lifetime.”\n“This is one of America’s darkest days. I have been absolutely despondent watching this,” McCain, a Conservative, said, before insisting it was a good time to “take a very hard look at where we are as a country and where we are with President Trump.”\n.@MeghanMcCain: “[Trump] is clearly a president who has turned into a mad king, and at this point, I’m calling on all Republicans and conservatives who still have clout—we have to invoke the 25th Amendment. We cannot withstand this. Our country cannot go on like this.” pic.twitter.com/2LxaUnS11l — The View (@TheView) January 7, 2021\nThe columnist pleaded, “[Trump] is clearly a president who has turned into a mad king, and at this point, I’m calling on all Republicans and Conservatives who still have clout, we have to invoke the 25th Amendment.\n“We cannot withstand this. Our country cannot go on like this. And we cannot possibly risk the idea that we could have more violence between now and President Biden getting elected and inaugurated.”\nRELATED: Late-Night Hosts React With Shock And Anger To Capitol Riots\nMcCain went on to slam the “b******s” who were proudly holding the American flag while “attacking our own republic.”\n“The same flag that veterans at Iwo Jima held after World War II. You are not patriots, you do not represent America. You are scum of the earth who are using and abusing and b*****dizing all that I love and have grown up with for your own sick agenda and that agenda has been directly sent by President Trump,” she told viewers, criticizing Trump for saying he “loved” his supporters and calling them “special.”\nRELATED: Josh Gad, Sacha Baron Cohen Call For Twitter, Facebook To Remove Donald Trump’s Account Amid Violence At U.S. Capitol Building\n“Ivanka Trump called these people patriots. I am a patriot. I come from a patriotic family. I come from a family of service, as does everyone on this show,” McCain said. “You are hurting our country, you are becoming a national embarrassment and we have to get him out immediately because this cannot stand.”\nSee what else “The View” panellists had to say about Wednesday’s horrific events below.\n“The type of police restraint that we saw is the type of police restraint that I wish had been shown during the Black Lives Matter protests and the protests against police brutality,” @Sunny says. “It was so jarring to me that this is the state of our democracy.” pic.twitter.com/Pl2TzZ8fpj — The View (@TheView) January 7, 2021\n.@JoyVBehar: “The whole ugly demonstration showed you that the police are capable of restraining themselves. They know how to do it. You saw it. Not only that, many of them enabled these insurrectionists to go into the Capitol and endanger the life of people.” pic.twitter.com/8gkLQut3r2 — The View (@TheView) January 7, 2021\n.@WhoopiGoldberg opening today’s @TheView: “Just 24 hours ago, the hottest topics were Warnock and Ossoff… but right after yesterday’s show, our nation’s Capitol fell under siege by domestic terrorists.” “Take a good look at what they did and don’t ever forget it.” pic.twitter.com/CDMhYrMLV0 — The View (@TheView) January 7, 2021}}
{{"How come every time they count mail-in ballot dumps they are so devastating in their percentage and power of destruction?" he has tweeted. "(These are) states, in almost all instances Democrat run and controlled. Then, one by one, they started to magically disappear as surprise ballot dumps were counted. Very strange, and the 'pollsters' got it completely and historically wrong," he added.}}
{{Joe Biden: Expert discusses plan to 'put pressure' on China\nJoe Biden was sworn in as the 46th President of the United States this Wednesday, as he took his vows on the Holy Bible outside of the US Capitol. But in the race to the White House, many of America's Christian leaders hedged their bets on Donald Trump securing another term in office, believing it was a matter of divine right for the Republican to win again. White evangelicals across the country backed the incumbent president, with exit polls in November showing a staggering 75 percent of them voted Red - down on 81 percent in 2016.\nTrending\nTelevangelist Mark burns from South Carolina said in 2016 Mr Trump was "fighting for Christianity". He backed the Republican once again last year, and recently appeared at a rally where he said: "This is Trump country." Televangelist Pat Robertson, host of The 700 Club, said in October last year Donald Trump would win "without question". According to Mr Robertson's prophecy, a Trump victory would lead to chaos and turmoil followed by a period of peace instigated by God. READ MORE: End of the world: What Bible said must happen before Jesus returns\nDonald Trump prophecy: President Trump was backed by evangelists and modern-day prophets\nFREE for the biggest new releases, reviews and tech hacks SUBSCRIBE Invalid email Sign up forfor the biggest new releases, reviews and tech hacks We will use your email address only for sending you newsletters. Please see our Privacy Notice for details of your data protection rights.\nDonald Trump prophecy: Joe Biden was inaugurated into office on January 20\nREAD MORE Joe Biden prophecy: God will use Biden to 'usher in Tribulation' And the re-election, he claimed, would set in motion events that would lead to the Biblical End Time. He has since changed his mind, even urging Mr Trump not to consider another election bid in 2024 - a surprising u-turn on his apocalyptic message months earlier. Bo Wagner, evangelist and pastor of the Cornerstone Baptist Church of Mooresboro, North Carolina, has now come out against the tidal waves of prophetic claims made in the weeks leading to the US election. In a column published just four days before President Biden's inauguration, Pastor Wagner discussed the problems with modern-day propheteering.\nDonald Trump: Graffy discusses possibility of 'Patriot Party'\nAccording to scripture, prophet is not a job title most people can afford to carry. Deuteronomy 18:20-22, for instance, make its clear prophets speak on behalf of God and any prophet who does not honestly and accurately convey the message of God does so at the risk of divine judgement. Pastor Wagner said: "God was abundantly clear that a prophet must be accurate 100 percent of the time to actually be a prophet. "Anything less was unacceptable, the marks of a false prophet and, in Old Testament times, resulted in death. DON'T MISS...\nEND OF THE WORLD: Why coronavirus is only the tip of the iceberg [INSIGHT]\nBible verses about coronavirus: What does the Bible say about COVID19? [ANALYSIS]\nTurkey is 'unintentionally paving way' to End Times prophecy - claim [INTERVIEW]\nJoe Biden cabinet: Who is in Joe Biden's cabinet?\nDonald Trump prophecy: Joe Biden won the election despite prophecies in Mr Trump's favour\nREAD MORE Nostradamus predictions 2021: Terrifying predictions for next year "I rather suspect that if that same fate still applied today, there would be very few applicants for the job of 'world-famous prophet'. "If by some unforeseen circumstance President Trump does indeed end up being re-inaugurated on January 20, 2021, a whole bunch of Baptists, myself included, need to go back to the drawing board and see if perhaps we missed the boat in our cessationist views. "But if Joe Biden (or anyone else other than Donald Trump) ends up being inaugurated on January 20, 2021, Charismatics and Pentecostals everywhere need to completely forsake their 'prophets' and demand that they take jobs more suitable, perhaps something in the entertainment industry." He added: "So if the prophets do crash and burn as spectacularly as it appears they will, then to paraphrase Deputy Chief Dwayne T. Robinson from Die Hard when the helicopter with the FBI guys burst into flames, 'We're going to need ourselves some new prophets.'"}}
{{President Donald Trump listens as Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao speaks during an event celebrating American truckers, at the White House, Thursday, April 16, 2020, in Washington. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)\nWASHINGTON (KXAN) — Elaine Chao, the U.S Secretary of Transportation, announced her resignation Thursday via Twitter effective Jan. 11.\nShe cited Wednesday’s riots that delayed Congress’ typically ceremonial session to count the Electoral College votes from the 2020 election as the reason why.\nJoe Biden was confirmed as the President-elect by a count of 306-232 over President Donald Trump when Congress reconvened and finished.\n“Yesterday, our country experienced a traumatic and entirely avoidable event as supporters of the President stormed the Capitol building following a rally he addressed,” her letter to her department colleagues said. “As I’m sure is the case with many of you, it has deeply troubled me in a way that I simply cannot set aside.”\nChao, who was the Secretary of Labor from 2001-2009 in the George W. Bush administration, said she plans to assist Pete Buttigieg, the incoming Transportation Secretary under President-elect Joe Biden.\n“I am hopeful that many of you will carry forward our vision to improve the lives of Americans through this department and beyond,” she wrote. “With all good wishes to each one of you.”}}
{{The explosion in Beirut, Lebanon on Tuesday left a huge span of destruction in the city, as videos from the scene show. Within minutes of the shocking explosion, social media was full of footage from professional camera crews and people on the ground experiencing the devastation. Hundreds of people were injured in the blast, and so far an exact death toll has not been released.\nThe explosion came from near the port of Lebanon's capital city, sending a mushroom cloud up into the sky and sending a shockwave out in the area. It flipped cars, blew out windows and damaged buildings for miles around, according to a report by CNN. The country's state-run National News Agency said that the number of injured is currently "uncountable," and that the city looks "like an apocalypse." Sifting through the different views of the scene is also difficult.\nThe cause of the blast remains unclear, though at the time of this writing experts experts can neither confirm nor deny that it was an attack. Firefighters were reportedly battling a massive blaze near the port at the time of the explosion, but an exact cause has not been given. It is worth noting that mushroom clouds of this shape are common in explosions, even without a bomb attack.\nThe international community is rallying around Lebanon and Beirut while the details of the explosion are determined. The World Health Organization is working on a comprehensive response, including medical aid for both immediate and long-term needs. Hospitals around the city are reportedly already over-full.\nWhile they wait for more news to roll in, the rest of the world can only watch and try to make sense of the scene through social media. Here are the videos from Beirut currently circulating online.}}
{{By Eric Levenson and Aaron Cooper | CNN\nA verdict has been reached in Derek Chauvin’s trial in the death of George Floyd, according to a notice posted by the court on the Hennepin County Court’s website. The jurors’ decision will be read in open court between 3:30 and 4 p.m. CT, the court said.\nThe jury of five men and seven women deliberated for four hours Monday afternoon and resumed deliberating Tuesday morning, according to the court. They are being sequestered from the public during deliberations.\nChauvin, 45, has pleaded not guilty to second-degree unintentional murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.\nThe deliberations began after three weeks of testimony in one of the most closely watched cases of the Black Lives Matter era. The prosecution’s case against Chauvin featured 38 witnesses as they sought to show the former Minneapolis Police officer committed murder when he kneeled on the neck and back of Floyd, handcuffed and prone on the street, for 9 minutes and 29 seconds on May 25, 2020.\nProsecutors have repeatedly told jurors to “believe your eyes” and rely on the infamous bystander video of Floyd’s death.\n“This case is exactly what you thought when you saw it first, when you saw that video. It is exactly that. You can believe your eyes,” prosecuting attorney Steve Schleicher said in closing arguments. “This wasn’t policing. This was murder.”\nThe defense called seven witnesses of its own — but not Chauvin himself, as he invoked his Fifth Amendment right not to testify.\nDefense attorney Eric Nelson argued that Chauvin’s use of force was unattractive but appropriate and said he was distracted by a crowd of hostile bystanders on the scene. He also argued that Floyd died due to fentanyl and methamphetamine use, his resistance of officers and his underlying heart problems, rather than due to Chauvin’s actions.\nThe second-degree murder charge says Chauvin intentionally assaulted Floyd with his knee, which unintentionally caused Floyd’s death. The third-degree murder charge says Chauvin acted with a “depraved mind, without regard for human life.” And the second-degree manslaughter charge says Chauvin’s “culpable negligence” caused Floyd’s death.\nThe charges are to be considered separate, so Chauvin could be convicted of all, some or none of them. If convicted, Chauvin could face up to 40 years in prison for second-degree murder, up to 25 years for third-degree murder and up to 10 years for second-degree manslaughter.\nThe actual sentences would likely be much lower, though, because Chauvin has no prior convictions. Minnesota’s sentencing guidelines recommend about 12.5 years in prison for each murder charge and about four years for the manslaughter charge.\nSix of the jurors are White, four are Black and two are multiracial, according to information released by the court. Two other jurors who were initially selected as alternates were dismissed prior to the start of deliberations.\nA nation waits on edge\nFloyd’s death last May set off unrest and mass protests challenging the ways that police treat Black people in the US. In a first for Minnesota, the trial has been broadcast live in its entirety to accommodate Covid-19 attendance restrictions, giving the public a rare look into the heart of the legal system.\nThough the trial has focused specifically on Chauvin and Floyd, the stakes of the case were made clear last week when a police officer in nearby Brooklyn Center was charged with manslaughter after she fatally shot a 20-year-old Black man during a traffic stop.\nTensions are high throughout the Twin Cities region, and authorities have ramped up security in anticipation of a verdict. The Hennepin County Government Center has been surrounded by fencing and barricades since jury selection began in March.\nMore than 3,000 Minnesota National Guard members have also been activated in the Twin Cities, while businesses in Minneapolis have boarded up windows.\nPresident Joe Biden on Tuesday said he is praying for the “right” verdict in the case, noting that the evidence is, in his view, “overwhelming.” He also said he spoke with Floyd’s family on Monday.\n“They’re a good family, and they’re calling for peace and tranquility, no matter what that verdict is,” he told reporters in the Oval Office.\nProsecutor says trial is ‘pro-police’\nIn the prosecution’s first phase of the trial, video from the scene and bystanders’ testimony revealed Floyd gasping for air and saying “I can’t breathe” 27 times under Chauvin’s restraint. Next, a series of police supervisors and use-of-force experts — including Minneapolis Police Chief Medaria Arradondo — criticized Chauvin’s continued kneeling as excessive and unreasonable, particularly after Floyd had passed out, stopped breathing and had no pulse.\nFinally, five separate medical experts explained that Floyd died from a lack of oxygen when Chauvin restricted his ability to breathe in what’s known as “positional asphyxia.”\nIn the state’s closing argument, Schleicher said Chauvin kneeled on Floyd for so long because of his pride and his ego in the face of concerned bystanders.\n“He was not going to let these bystanders tell him what to do. He was going to do what he wanted, how he wanted, for as long as he wanted. And there was nothing, nothing they can do about it because he had the authority. He had the power, and the other officers, the bystanders were powerless,” he said. “He was trying to win, and George Floyd paid for it with his life.”\nHe contrasted Chauvin’s “ego-based pride” with the proper feelings of pride in wearing a police badge and praised policing as a noble profession. He insisted the state was prosecuting Chauvin individually — not policing in general.\n“This is not an anti-police prosecution; it is a pro-police prosecution,” he said. “There is nothing worse for good police than bad police.”\nIn response, Nelson said Chauvin acted as a “reasonable officer” would in that situation and said there was no evidence he intentionally or purposefully used force that was unlawful.\n“You have to look at it from the reasonable police officer standard. You have to take into account that officers are human beings, capable of making mistakes in highly stressful situations,” Nelson said. “In this case, the totality of the circumstances that were known to a reasonable police officer in the precise moment the force was used demonstrates that this was an authorized use of force, as unattractive as it may be. This is reasonable doubt.”}}
{{Some people who were at the Capitol on Wednesday are out of their jobs after images of them at the protests there appeared online.\nA day after the riots, a direct marketing production company posted a statement on its website: “Navistar Direct Marketing was made aware that a man wearing a Navistar company badge was seen inside the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021 during the security breach. After review of the photographic evidence the employee in question has been terminated for cause.”\n“While we support all employee’s right to peaceful, lawful exercise of free speech, any employee demonstrating dangerous conduct that endangers the health and safety of others will no longer have an employment opportunity with Navistar Direct Marketing,” the statement continued. It did not name the man who was fired.\nAnother case is that of an attorney named Paul Davis. According to Roger Sollenberger, a writer for Salon, he was seen in a video saying, “We’re all trying to get into the Capitol to stop this, and this is what’s happening. They’re teargassing us, and this is not acceptable. Not acceptable, people are not going to stand for this.”\nOn Thursday, the Texas-based company Goosehead Insurance said in a tweet: “Paul Davis, Associate General Counsel, is no longer employed by Goosehead.”\nIn a Facebook post on what appears to be Davis’ profile page, Davis seems to refer to the video Sollenberger shared, saying the video was taken out of context. “I said ‘trying to get into the Capitol’ meaning to voice a protest. Not in any violent way,” he posted.\n“I already lost my job because of the Twitter mob. I’m not upset. I’m thankful to be suffering for righteousness and freedom,” the post continues.\nCBS News has reached out to Goosehead and Davis through what appears to be his Facebook page for more information.\nAnother person who was at the Capitol Wednesday has resigned. Rick Saccone, a former Pennsylvania state representative, shared on Facebook that he was at the protests.\n“I see some people are twisting the peaceful protest into something else,” he wrote on Wednesday, sharing a photo of himself in Trump gear in front of the Capitol. “Everyone from our group was involved in peaceful, first amendment assembly. It was part of the metaphor to storm the castle so to speak.” It appears the post has since been deleted.\nSaccone said he did not condone violence and did not see any violence at the Capitol, but did see smoke from tear gas. “I cannot imagine anyone being shot for a trespass. The punishment for trespass is not death,” he wrote. “My heart goes out to the young lady who was shot.”\nSaccone also posted a video of himself at the protests on Facebook on Wednesday, which also appears to have been deleted.\nOne day later, Saint Vincent College, where Saccone served as an adjunct professor, condemned the riots. “After reviewing the video posted by Rick Saccone, an adjunct professor, we immediately commenced an investigation of the facts and circumstances surrounding it,” the college said in a statement. “As a result of that investigation, Dr. Saccone has submitted and we have accepted his letter of resignation, effective immediately. He will no longer be associated with Saint Vincent College in any capacity.”\nSaccone later told local publication Tribune-Review that he had resigned “for the betterment of the school.”\n“I’ve been there 21 years. I didn’t want all this terrible media kerfuffle to tarnish the school. I decided it would be better if I just resigned,” he said. CBS News has reached out to Saccone and is awaiting response.\nOthers who were not in Washington, D.C., Wednesday have faced repercussions. The Republican Party of Texas announced this week it terminated Walter West as Sergeant-at-Arms for the Party after he posted comments on Facebook about the Capitol assault.\n“The Republican Party of Texas in no way endorses Walter West’s statement about the lawlessness occurring at the Capitol Building,” the party’s statement reads. “He will be removed as Sergeant-at-Arms for the Party.”\n“Whereas we vigorously support the First Amendment right to freely assemble, we condemn violence and pray for all gathering in our nation’s capital and those at the Capitol Building,” the statement continues. “The Texas GOP has always been on the side of law and order and will remain so.”\nWest said on Facebook that he was was attending the “Wild Protest” in Washington, D.C., sharing photos of the mob and writing: “You Accepted ANTIFA burning down your cities… Now Deal with them taking back OUR HOUSE.” He later said in another post he was not actually in Washington D.C.\nOn Thursday, he posted a statement on Facebook regarding his statements about the protests. “My Post on DC was in no way inciting any violence,” he wrote.\n“My personal statement has Unfortunately caused pain, and for obvious reasons of the left and those within The Republican Party Staff, it was misinterpreted, but in no way would I as a Veteran and Former Public Safety Official ever advocate for violence on ‘The People’s House,’ that which I swore an Oath to Protect many years ago,” his post continues.\nHe also said his “whereabouts during this whole event have been here in Texas.”}}
{{Advertisement\nDonald Trump and his backers encouraged Wednesday's deadly terrorism.\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation asked the public on Thursday for tips on who instigated Wednesday's deadly pro-Trump terrorist attack on the Capitol. The bureau need not look far.\n"The FBI is seeking to identify individuals instigating violence in Washington, D.C. We are accepting tips and digital media depicting rioting or violence in and around the U.S. Capitol on January 6," the FBI tweeted on Thursday morning. "If you have information, visit http://fbi.gov/USCapitol."\nHere are 13 people who encouraged and egged on the violent mob attacks.\nDonald Trump\nAdvertisement\nAfter losing the 2020 election by an Electoral College margin that he called a "landslide" when it was in his favor in 2016, Donald Trump spent two months falsely claiming that the election was stolen and that he was the real winner. On Dec. 19, he tweeted, "Big protest in D.C. on January 6th. Be there, will be wild!"\nTrump encouraged the mob action at a rally on Wednesday morning, telling his supporters, "All of us here today do not want to see our election victory stolen by emboldened radical-left Democrats, which is what they're doing, and stolen by the fake news media," and, "Our country has had enough. We will not take it anymore and that's what this is all about. And to use a favorite term that all of you people really came up with: We will stop the steal."\nAs the violent attacks on the Capitol proceeded on Wednesday, Trump tweeted out messages urging his mob to "Stay peaceful" and telling them, "We love you."\nDon Trump Jr. and Eric Trump\nBoth of Trump's adult sons appeared at Wednesday's rally.\nDon Jr. threatened members of Congress if they did not overturn the election results: "These guys better fight for Trump. Because if they're not, guess what? I'm going to be in your backyard in a couple of months!" He said the protests "should be a message to all the Republicans who have not been willing to actually fight. The people who did nothing to stop the steal" and they "should send a message to them: This isn't their Republican Party anymore! This is Donald Trump's Republican Party!"\nEric said, "We live in the greatest country in the world, and we will never, ever, ever stop fighting," while saying congressional Republicans "need to stand up. And we need to march on the Capitol today. And we need to stand up for this country. And we need to stand up for what's right."\nKimberly Guilfoyle\nGuilfoyle, a Trump adviser and girlfriend of Don Jr., also appeared at the rally, warning, "We will not allow the liberals and the Democrats to steal our dream or steal our elections."\nRudy Giuliani\nTrump's personal lawyer used his remarks at the rally to demand, "Let's have a trial by combat" to determine the 2020 election results. "This election was stolen in seven states. They picked states where they had crooked Democratic cities and they could push everybody around, and it has to be vindicated to save our republic. This is bigger than Donald Trump. It's bigger than you and me."\nSen. Josh Hawley\nThe Kansas City Star's editorial board slammed Hawley (R-MO), who repeatedly pushed disinformation about the 2020 election results and was the first senator to back an effort to reject certification of the Electoral College voting results, in an editorial titled, "Assault on democracy: Sen. Josh Hawley has blood on his hands in Capitol coup attempt."\nOn Wednesday, Hawley was photographed waving at the pro-Trump mob before it stormed the Capitol building. As the siege took place, he put out a fundraising appeal, writing, "Many career politicians in the D.C. establishment want me to stay quiet. I suppose you can assume nothing I do will matter. That it won't matter if I object or not, so I should sit by and do nothing. But this is not about me."\nRep. Chip Roy\nOn Monday, Roy (R-TX) warned that if Democrats won the two Georgia Senate runoff elections to be held the next day, violence would follow.\n"What happens tomorrow in Georgia, if we have a Democratically controlled Senate, we're now at basically full-scale hot conflict in this country, whereas right now we're at a cold civil war," he told Fox News. "If Georgians don't show up and ensure that we hold the Senate in Republican hands, then that's what's happening."\nRep. Lauren Boebert\nBoebert, a newly sworn-in Colorado Republican, backed the efforts to overturn the election, tweeting, "Today is 1776," a reference to the beginning of the American Revolutionary War.\nRep. Louie Gohmert\nGohmert (R-TX) called for street violence after his failed lawsuit attempting to give Mike Pence authority to simply ignore the election results and declare Trump the winner.\n"But bottom line is, the court is saying, 'We're not going to touch this. You have no remedy' — basically, in effect, the ruling would be that you gotta go to the streets and be as violent as antifa and BLM," he told a right-wing outlet. Democratic Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz has since filed a resolution calling for the House to censure Gohmert for the comments.\nRep. Jim Jordan\nJordan (R-OH) appeared on a far-right television outlet earlier this week and said: "This is about President Trump and the Constitution. He has fought for us, the American people. He has done more of what he said he would do than any president in our lifetimes, I mean, he's accomplished so much in his four years as president. It's time for us to fight for him and the Constitution.”\nTexas Attorney General Ken Paxton\nPaxton said at Wednesday's rally, "What we have in President Trump is a fighter. And I think that's why we're all here."\n"We will not quit fighting," he continued. "We're Texans, we're Americans, and the fight will go on."\nAfter the rally turned violent, Paxton falsely claimed that the mobs he had encouraged were really "antifa thugs" masquerading as Trump supporters.\nMichael Flynn\n"When the legislators, courts and/or Congress fail to do their duty under the 12th Amendment, you must be ready Mr. President to immediately declare a limited form of Martial Law, and temporarily suspend the Constitution and civilian control of these federal elections, for the sole purpose of having the military oversee a national re-vote," read a full-page ad published in the Washington Times and signed by Flynn, Trump's former national security adviser, and other Trump supporters.\nLin Wood\nWood, a Trump election attorney, tweeted on New Year's Day that Mike Pence should be executed for treason if he does not overturn the election results.\n"If Pence is arrested, @SecPompeo will save the election. Pence will be in jail awaiting trial for treason. He will face execution by firing squad. He is a coward & will sing like a bird & confess ALL."\nPublished with permission of The American Independent Foundation.}}
{{BETSY DeVos has been dubbed ‘worst Secretary of Education ever’ by Elizabeth Warren after she sensationally quit over the Capitol riots.\nSenator Warren wished Donald Trump's schools chief "good riddance" after four years of cuts to her own education department.\n4 Elizabeth Warren has tweeted her thoughts on Betsy DeVos' time as Education Secretary\nThe Tweet read: “Betsy DeVos has never done her job to help America’s students. It doesn’t surprise me one bit that she’d rather quit than do her job to help invoke the 25th Amendment,”\n“Good riddance, Betsy. You were the worst Secretary of Education ever.”\nDeVos is the second Trump cabinet member to resign following the storming of the Capitol on Wednesday.\nPro-Trump rioters stormed the Capitol building, causing chaos leading to DeVos and Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao tendering their resignations.\nBetsy DeVos has never done her job to help America’s students. It doesn’t surprise me one bit that she’d rather quit than do her job to help invoke the 25th Amendment.\nGood riddance, Betsy. You were the worst Secretary of Education ever. https://t.co/im1IgGQVSp — Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) January 8, 2021\n4 DeVos' has been met with continuous criticism from the Dem's since stepping into her role Credit: AP:Associated Press\nIn her resignation letter DeVos directly cited that the Capitol breach was the reasons and blamed President Trump’s ‘’rhetoric’’ for making the situation worse.\nDeVos said she was quitting “in support of the oath I took to our Constitution, our people, and our freedoms.” The riot was seen as an "inflection point" for her.\n"Impressionable children are watching all of this and they are learning from us," she said.\n"I believe we each have a moral obligation to exercise good judgement and model the behavior we hope they would emulate. They must know from us that America is greater than what transpired yesterday."\n"To that end, today I resign from my position effective Friday, January 8, in support of the oath I took to our Constitution, our people, and our freedoms," she continued.\nDeVos’ tenure hasn’t been an easy one, with Democratic congresswoman Frederica Wilson telling the education secretary back in 2019: “When you approach a public school, you are protested,”\n“When you enter, you are booed. You are the most unpopular person in our government. Millions will register to vote in 2020. Many will vote to remove you more than to remove the president.”\nDeVos is a billionaire philanthropist, who attended a private Christian school in Michigan, electing to do the same for her own children.\nWith little exposure to public education, she’s proposed billions of dollars in cuts to her own department.\nThe worst hit were after-school programmes, full-service community schools and even hitting class-size reductions and student loan debt forgiveness.\nIt has been the honor of a lifetime to serve the U.S. Department of Transportation. pic.twitter.com/rFxPsBoh6t — Sec. Elaine Chao (@SecElaineChao) January 7, 2021\nMost read in News Live Blog AMERICAN CARNAGE Trump news LIVE - Capitol cop KILLED by thug who hit him with extinguisher NEWLY CONVERTED Ashli Babbitt was Obama voter before turning to Trump over Hillary hatred WANTED MAN Capitol 'pipe-bomber' seen in chilling FBI pic after 'explosive devices' found DOWN AND OUT Student slammed after vid shows him downing 2L of Jack Daniels in 18 SECONDS CLEAR & PRESENT DANGER AOC says she feared dying & thought lives could be lost at Capitol\nTrump had to overrule her planes to cut the Special Olympics, and she met significant resistance with the Demoractic controlled House passing budget increases in 2019.\nIn the same year, a federal judge held DeVos in contempt for violating an order to stop collecting loan payments from former Corinthian Colleges students, a for-profit college chain that collapsed in 2015 amid allegations that it lied about the success of its graduates in order to get students to enroll.\nCritics has said she’s used her wealth to push legislators to defund public education in favour of for-profit charter schools in the state, and students’ test results have suffered badly as a consequence.\n4 Warren was in contention to be the Democratic presidential candidate before She exited after her avalanche of progressive policy proposals failed to attract a broader political coalition in the party Credit: AP:Associated Press\n4 DeVos' made headlines when the Associated Press reported on stories circulating online incorrectly asserting that the Education Sec said that ''only 0.02%'' of children will die whilst returning to school during the pandemic Credit: AP:Associated Press}}
{{Lebanon's prime minister Hassan Diab has announced the resignation of his government after a powerful Beirut port explosion sparked public uproar against the country's leaders. Diab, in a televised speech, said the detonation of highly explosive material warehoused at the port in the capital for the last seven years was 'the result of endemic corruption'}}
{{Rioters and police clash on top of the Capitol building on January 6. Rioters used metal bars and tear gas as well against the police.}}
{{George Floyd's family gathers in Virginia to unveil hologram The family of George Floyd witnessed the unveiling of a hologram in Virginia Tuesday night, where flickering lights came together to create an image of Floyd’s head and shoulders transposed over the Confederate Gen. Robert E\nRICHMOND, Va. -- The family of George Floyd witnessed the unveiling of a hologram in Virginia on Tuesday night, where flickering lights came together to create an image of Floyd's head and shoulders transposed over the Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee statue.\nThe event in Richmond on historic Monument Avenue was the first public unveiling of the George Floyd Hologram Memorial Project. A press release says the project aims to “transform spaces that were formerly occupied by racist symbols of America’s dark Confederate past into a message of hope, solidarity and forward-thinking change."\nFloyd was a Black man who died after being pinned to the ground by a white police officer in Minneapolis in May, sparking protests across the country calling for criminal justice reform across the nation. The Richmond-Times Dispatch reported that the project's weeklong tour will take it to a number of cities in North Carolina and Georgia, mirroring the route of the 1961 Freedom Rides.\nThe hologram features a myriad of lights that swarm like fireflies to form into a 3-D image of Floyd, with his name depicted around his image. The tour is organized by Change.org and The George Floyd Foundation.}}
{{MORNING BRIEFING\nWhat you need to know straight to your inbox,\n7am every weekday morning.}}
{{Currently Reading\nAlert: Jury reaches a verdict at murder trial of ex-cop Derek Chauvin in George Floyd’s death -- will be read Tuesday afternoon}}
{{President Trump makes five stops in five different swing states Sunday, while his Democratic rival, Joe Biden, focuses on Pennsylvania just days before Election Day.\nTrump began his Sunday speaking to supporters in Macomb County, Mich. — a state he captured by just about 10,000 votes in 2016, but where Biden currently leads in polls — to make a last-ditch appeal to voters as to why he deserves to be reelected.\nIn his characteristically boastful tone, Trump defended his administration's handling of the coronavirus and touted the nation's economic success prior to the pandemic.\n"This election is a choice between the Biden depression," Trump said, "or you can have the greatest economic boom in the history of our country."\n"The Biden plan is to imprison you in your home," Trump added. His administration has pushed to get people back to work and kids to school with few restrictions, even as the coronavirus has continued to savage the country.\nTrump's jam-packed campaign schedule ahead of the end of voting on Tuesday highlights the uphill battle he faces to reelection and the categorically dissimilar style to campaigning he has taken in contrast to Biden.\nWith 230,000 Americans now dead from the coronavirus, Trump has repeatedly denied responsibility for the virus' toll, and he continues to hold large, close-contact campaign events in outdoor spaces.\n"Look at what China has done to the world. And we're not forgetting it," Trump said Sunday in Michigan, in reference to the coronavirus, which first appeared in China.\nResearchers at Stanford University have found that Trump's rallies this summer were likely responsible for some 30,000 confirmed cases of the coronavirus. Researchers say that these events likely resulted in more than 700 deaths.\nBiden, on the other hand, has made underscoring the human cost of the pandemic his key pitch to voters while spotlighting what he calls an irresponsible and anti-science handling of the virus by Trump and his administration.\nIn keeping with public health guidelines, Biden has held fewer, smaller campaign events — often with supporters remaining in or around their cars for a drive-in — while accusing Trump of orchestrating "super-spreader" rallies.\nBiden holds two events Sunday in Philadelphia, and then travels to Cleveland Monday before returning to Pennsylvania to barnstorm the state. Trump himself held four rallies in Pennsylvania on Saturday. It's another swing state that Trump carried in 2016 but where the president now trails in surveys.\nWith the election just days away, Biden has also enlisted the help of Democratic favorite Barack Obama, the former president. He appeared with Biden in Michigan on Saturday, and travels to Georgia and Florida on Monday.\nTrump has planned five rallies in four key states on Monday, ending in Michigan.\nOne Biden campaign event in Texas had to be cancelled over the weekend, after a caravan of Trump supporters swarmed a Biden campaign bus and forced it to stop. Trump seemed to praise his supporters' actions in a tweet, proclaiming " I LOVE TEXAS!" alongside what appeared to be a video of the incident.\nCopyright 2020 NPR. To see more, visit https://www.npr.org.}}
{{Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan, right, speaks during a press conference on January 7. Maryland Governor's office\nMaryland Gov. Larry Hogan, a Republican, said he thinks the nation would be better off if President Trump were to be removed from office during a news conference Thursday.\n"I think there’s no question that America would be better off if the President would resign or be removed from office. And if Mike Pence, the vice president of the United States, would conduct a peaceful transfer of power over the next 13 days until President Biden is sworn in," he said.\n"We need leadership right now and we need to stop all of this craziness," Hogan said.\nHe called the attack by pro-Trump supporters "heinous" and an attack on the rule of law.\n"What we saw in the nation’s Capitol was not just an attack on the people’s representatives or historic buildings and our law enforcement. It was an attack on the rule of law, the foundation of self-government and who we are as Americans. The mob may have shattered glass but they did not and they will not shatter our democracy," he said.\nHogan also noted that while he had the state's National Guard ready to be deployed to the Capitol, he was unable to get immediate federal authorization to send them in for nearly 90 minutes.}}
{{CAMDEN, N.J. (AP) — A southern New Jersey man who bills himself as a “dating and relationship strategist” is facing criminal charges in connection with the riots at the Capitol this month.\nPatrick Stedman was arrested Thursday and charged with unlawful entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\nAccording to a criminal complaint, the 32-year-old Haddonfield resident, who lives with his parents, posted videos of himself traveling to Washington, D.C. and taking part in the breach of the Capitol on Jan. 6.\n“I was pretty much in the first wave, and we broke down the doors and climbed up the back part of the Capitol building and got all the way into the chambers,” he posted, according to a criminal affidavit.\nThe FBI was alerted to Stedman by a former high school classmate and a former college classmate, according to the affidavit.\nStedman's Twitter bio contains a link to a website that promises “daily emails on sex and female psychology.”\nIn a tweet Wednesday, Stedman wrote he would be “taking this opportunity to unplug for a few days and focus on writing, lifting, and meditation.”\nStedman was scheduled to make an initial court appearance Thursday afternoon in federal court in Camden. It wasn’t immediately known if he had retained an attorney.}}
{{The Week\nFormer White House communications director Alyssa Farah is pushing back on President Trump's false election fraud claims amid chaos in Washington, D.C, telling supporters, "We lost."Farah, who resigned as White House communications director just last month, in a series of tweets on Wednesday urged the president's supporters to accept that he lost the 2020 election, as rioters breached the Capitol building to disrupt the certification of President-elect Joe Biden's victory."I campaigned w/ Trump & voted for him," Farah wrote. "But I need you to hear me: the Election was NOT stolen. We lost."Farah went on to write that supporters "need to know" that the "legitimate margins of victory for Biden are far too wide to change the outcome," adding that it is "NOT and NEVER will be a time for violence." Earlier in the afternoon, Farah called on Trump to "condemn" the rioting in Washington, writing, "You are the only one they will listen to. For our country!"Although Trump later released a video telling the rioters to "go home," in the same video, he also again falsely claimed the election was "stolen" and told the supporters who breached the Capitol that "we love you" and "you're very special." The New York Times' Annie Karni reports that "some around POTUS are worried his video message was counter-productive and that the message received was that he still wants his supporters to fight for him."More stories from theweek.com The decline and fall of Donald Trump GOP Sen. Tom Cotton not-so-subtly knocks Ted Cruz and Josh Hawley for inspiring Capitol siege for 'political advantage' Trump aides reportedly conclude he is 'mentally unreachable'}}
{{Today, hundreds marched and peacefully protested in Lancaster city in response to the murder of George Floyd.\nThe protest was named, "We've had enough, time to stand," and it began at 11 a.m. Saturday morning. Organizers of the planned peaceful protest wrote they call on those who have "had enough of systematic oppression and racism towards black people” to attend the event to show solidarity.\nThe organizers also emphasized that this would be a peaceful protest, stating, "I just wanted to ensure that there is a common understanding it is a peaceful protest and in all of our power we will try to keep it that way. We all love our city and everyone in it so much which is why we'll be marching AND remaining peaceful."\nWatch our live video of the protest below:\nLNP reporters will be livetweeting from the protest in Lancaster city. Be sure to check out their latest updates.\nSign up for our newsletter Success! An email has been sent with a link to confirm list signup. Error! There was an error processing your request.\nPictures from the protest will be posted here shortly.\nWhat to read next}}
{{President Donald Trump is mounting one final test of whether the massive crowds that often show up at his signature rallies will translate into votes as he finishes the final 48 hours of his re-election campaign with a dizzying onslaught of events in the battleground states that could decide the race.\nJoe Biden, however, is focusing his fire on Pennsylvania, hoping to flip the state Trump narrowly won in 2016.\nThe president was set to hold five rallies in five states on Sunday alone. He’ll hold seven more on Monday to close out the final full day of the campaign.\nTrump sees his ability to connect with everyday Americans as a central element of his outsider appeal, which he hopes will resonate again this year.\n“Let me ask you, is there a better place to be anytime, anywhere than a Trump rally?” Trump asked a massive crowd Saturday in Butler, Pennsylvania, that responded in roaring approval.\nTRENDING: Watch: Obama's Swing State Appearance Falls Flat as Biden and Team Miss His Cue\nWith more than 91 million votes already cast, Trump and Biden are out of time to reshape the race.\nInstead, they’re focusing on their base and making sure that any potential supporters have either already voted or plan to do so in person on Tuesday.\nFor Biden, that means paying close attention to black voters who are a critical part of the coalition he needs to build to win.\nBut some Democrats worry that voters of color may not be excited about Biden and won’t show up in force to support him, which could be devastating in fiercely contested battleground states like Pennsylvania and Michigan.\nIs Trump going to win re-election? Yes No Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. 100% (1 Votes) 0% (0 Votes)\nThe challenge is exacerbated by the Democratic push this year to encourage voting by mail. But that runs counter to the tradition of some black voters who prefer to vote in person on Election Day.\n“Most black voters in Philly have been skeptical of mail-in voting,” said Joe Hill, a veteran Democratic operative-turned-lobbyist from the city.\n“A lot of us have gotten our ballots already,” Hill said, but added, “Election Day has always been everything in Philadelphia.”\nBiden was set to spend much of Sunday in Philadelphia encouraging voters to turn out. He was scheduled to participate in a “souls to the polls” event that’s aimed at encouraging black church congregations to organize and vote.\nHe held his first in-person campaign events with former President Barack Obama on Saturday in the predominantly black cities of Detroit and Flint, Michigan. Obama will also campaign for Biden on Monday in Georgia and in South Florida, another area of potential concern if Latino voters sit out the election.\nRELATED: Report: Trump To Continue Campaigning After Election To Keep Supporters’ Morale Up\nAs the largest city in a state that could decide the presidency, Philadelphia has always held special significance for Biden. Just 30 miles from his longtime home in Wilmington, Delaware, Biden planted his campaign headquarters in Philadelphia before the pandemic forced most of his staff to work remotely.\nThe city gets intense focus because it’s such a deep trove of Democratic votes, especially non-white voters.\nDemocrat Hillary Clinton lost Pennsylvania by almost 45,000 votes four years ago even as she fell just 4,800 votes shy of Obama’s Philadelphia County total in 2012. Clinton’s bigger problem was that she lost ground to Trump in other parts of the state beyond Philadelphia and its suburbs.\nAccording to an analysis by University of Florida professor Michael McDonald, a nonpartisan political data expert, almost 2.3 million Pennsylvania voters had returned absentee ballots as of Friday out of almost 3.1 million requested. That’s a statewide return rate of 74.2 percent.\nPhiladelphia’s return rate was a tick higher, at 74.6 percent, but it had the highest raw total of outstanding ballots, with more than 101,000.\nStatewide, registered Democrats maintained a solid advantage over Republicans on returned ballots: 1.54 million to about 520,000. In a separate analysis, the Democratic data firm TargetSmart found that more than 385,000 of the early Democratic voters didn’t vote at all in 2016.\nAcross the state in Pittsburgh, Democratic consultant Mike Mikus stressed that Philadelphia isn’t Biden’s only path to flipping Pennsylvania. Mikus noted that Trump won a Pittsburgh-area congressional district by nearly 20 percentage points in 2016 only to watch Democrat Conor Lamb win a special congressional election there a year later. Lamb won a full term in 2018 and is heavily favored again Tuesday.\nMikus said that trend will help Biden run up a wide margin in Allegheny County, the state’s second-most-populous county.\n“He’s got a real base, but there’s just no evidence that he’s done anything to reach anybody who didn’t already like him in 2016,” Mikus said, “and he’s lost people who weren’t sure about him but were willing to take the gamble.”\n“It’s not just about Philadelphia.”\nWe are committed to truth and accuracy in all of our journalism. Read our editorial standards.}}
{{Countries within the Gulf Cooperation Council paid tribute to victims of the two powerful blasts that rocked Beirut earlier on Tuesday, with several of the countries saying they will be sending medical assistance to Lebanon.\nTwo enormous explosions rocked Beirut’s port on Tuesday, killing at least 50 people and wounding thousands.\nFor all the latest headlines follow our Google News channel online or via the app.\nKuwait issued an Emiri decree to send medical assistance to Lebanon.\nMeanwhile, the United Arab Emirates’ Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Anwar Gargash tweeted that “our hearts are with Beirut and its people.”\nHe posted the tribute alongside an image of Dubai’s Burj Khalifa, the world’s tallest building, illuminated in the colors of the Lebanese flag.\nRead more:\nThousands injured, more than 50 dead after explosions rock Lebanon capital\nDamaged Saint George hospital treating patients in parking lot after Beirut blasts\nSecretary-General of Kataeb Party succumbs to wounds after Beirut explosions\nWatch: The Saint George hospital in the Geitawi neighborhood of #Beirut has been damaged and is without electricity, with doctors treating patients in the parking lot following the blasts in Port Beirut, footage from our correspondent shows.#Lebanonhttps://t.co/GIZh87KXCO pic.twitter.com/sR0CAPHrSp — Al Arabiya English (@AlArabiya_Eng) August 4, 2020\n“Our prayers during these difficult hours are that God... protects brotherly Lebanon and the Lebanese to reduce their affliction and heal their wounds,” he wrote.\nGulf countries maintain close ties with Beirut and have long provided financial aid and diplomatic assistance to mediate Lebanon’s political and sectarian divisions.\nWatch: Graphic footage shows several wounded people being transported away from the explosion sites in #Lebanon's #Beirut.https://t.co/IB8kyus4cq pic.twitter.com/ulXSyzxHpH — Al Arabiya English (@AlArabiya_Eng) August 4, 2020\nBahrain’s foreign ministry urged its nationals in Lebanon to contact the ministry’s operations center or Manama’s representative in Beirut, while Kuwait ordered its citizens to take extreme caution and stay indoors.\nIt also asked those in need of assistance to contact their embassy.\n(With AFP and Reuters)\nLast Update: Tuesday, 04 August 2020 KSA 22:48 - GMT 19:48}}
{{Senator Lisa Murkowski, a Republican from Alaska, speaks during a Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee hearing on efforts to get back to work and school during the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak, in Washington, D.C., June 30, 2020.\nAlaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski is the first Republican senator to call openly for President Trump's resignation in the wake of the mob attack on the U.S. Congress that left 5 people dead.\n"I want him to resign. I want him out. He has caused enough damage," Murkowski, who has often bucked her party, told The Anchorage Daily News.\n"I think he should leave. He said he's not going to show up. He's not going to appear at the inauguration. He hasn't been focused on what is going on with Covid," she said. "He's either been golfing or he's been inside the Oval Office fuming and throwing every single person who has been loyal and faithful to him under the bus, starting with the vice president."\n"He doesn't want to stay there. He only wants to stay there for the title. He only wants to stay there for his ego. He needs to get out. He needs to do the good thing, but I don't think he's capable of doing a good thing," Murkowski said.\nThe Alaska Republican did not comment directly on whether she would support impeachment. It's unclear how much support a second impeachment trial would garner in the GOP-controlled Senate. It takes a two-thirds vote in the chamber to convict a president and remove him from office.\nSen. Ben Sasse, R-Neb., told CBS Friday that he would "definitely consider whatever articles" the House of Representatives would submit. "As I've told you, I believe the president has disregarded his oath of office ... What he did was wicked," Sasse said.\n—Spencer Kimball}}
{{Lebanon's health minister said more than 25 people had been killed and over 2,500 injured in a massive explosion in Beirut port area on Tuesday that rippled through the capital.\nSpeaking in remarks broadcast live on TV channels, he initially said more than 30 people had been killed and over 3,000 injured. The head of the Lebanese Red Cross put the number of wounded at over 2,200, local broadcasters earlier said.}}
{{After the joint session of Congress certified Joe Biden as the next president of the United States, Trump announced that he would support an orderly transition on Jan. 20. He also promised to continue his fight for the country.\n“Even though I totally disagree with the outcome of the election, and the facts bear me out, nevertheless there will be an orderly transition on January 20th. I have always said we would continue our fight to ensure that only legal votes were counted,” the president said in a video released early Jan. 7. “While this represents the end of the greatest first term in presidential history, it’s only the beginning of our fight to Make America Great Again!”\nEarlier on Jan. 6, hundreds of thousands of people gathered near the White House and Washington Monument to hear the president speak, and support him against alleged fraud in the Nov. 3 election. After Trump delivered his remarks, much of the crowd began a march toward the U.S. Capitol to protest the planned confirmation of the election by a joint session of Congress.\nProtests in front Capital largely peaceful (Image: Vision Times Staff)\nCongress’ afternoon debate was quickly interrupted\nIn the afternoon, Congress began to debate the certification of electoral votes in Arizona, only to be interrupted when a small group of radicals breached the Capitol building.\nCongressmen sheltered in place and were eventually secured away from the building. The removal was prolonged and reinforcements from nearby police forces did not arrive for over an hour, for reasons not apparent at this time. Law enforcement officers eventually succeeded in pushing out the protestors, some of whom appeared, to an observer who spoke on condition of anonymity, to be Antifa. A recording posted on the Internet appears to show Trump supporters attempting to stop men in black from smashing a window of the Capitol prior to the breach.\nAccording to assessments by confirmed Trump protestors on the following day, many widely believe all protestors to have been Trump supporters, based upon the portrayal of the event in legacy media outlets; this is disheartening to the Trump supporters, who say they came only with the intention of exercising their right to peaceful assembly.\nMany Trump supporters left after the rally, while some remained and were dispersed by the National Guard, who came after approval from President Trump. One group of female Trump supporters made their way to their bus, as youth on motorized scooters rode in the middle of the empty road alongside them, using foul language and berating them. Another young man of African American descent wearing a Trump winter hat and scarf was harassed by a car full of people who rolled down their window and stopped to curse at him. Another supporter, a lady walking alone, was misdirected away from her hotel by a smiling woman in black body armor who the lone woman thought to be a District security officer.\nRegarding the Capitol incident, Matt Gaetz (R. FL) said on the Senate floor, “…this morning President Trump explicitly called for demonstrations to be peaceful…he was far more explicit… for peace than some of the BLM and left-wing writers were this summer when we saw violence sweep across the nation. ” Gaetz said the recent violence against House Speaker Pelosi’s home and Senator Hawley’s home was wrong and he linked this to the left when he continued to notify the floor of “some pretty compelling evidence from a facial recognition company showing that some of the people who breached the Capitol today were not Trump supporters. They were masquerading as Trump supporters and in fact, were members of the violent terrorist group Antifa.”\n(Image: SAUL LOEB/AFP via Getty Images)\nOthers allege it was the Trump supporters perpetrating the violence. The software company used for the assessment has since said it was mistaken. However, other analyses and eye-witnesses allege Antifa played a bad role in the breach on Jan. 6. This would not be the first time a pro-Trump event was reportedly infiltrated, as reports from last summer on NTD alleged that members of the Chinese communist community had inserted themselves into a rally disguised as Trump supporters, in order to cause trouble.\nThe event claimed four lives; three individuals died of medical incidents and one from a gunshot wound to the chest. The woman who was shot, Ashli Babbitt, was a fourteen-year veteran of the Air Force who had seen four tours of duty. Capitol police have been blamed for not suppressing the breach before it became more serious and for the violent outcome, though It is still unclear who fired the fatal shot. The Chief of the Capitol Police was highly critical of the handling of the breach and promised an investigation is underway; he has now resigned.\nCongress reconvened and certified Biden later in the evening\nThe joint session resumed only after the Capitol was confirmed secure. By that time, a handful of lawmakers who had planned to raise objections in support of Trump succumbed to what some are now considering a frame-up, and reverted their positions. They confirmed the electoral college votes, while condemning the violence.\nRepublican Kelly Loeffler from Georgia said on the Senate floor that the violence had forced her to change her mind and that she cannot “in good conscience object to the certification of these electors.” Other Republican senators who changed their stance include Cathy McMorris Rodgers from Washington, James Lankford from Oklahoma, and Steve Daines from Montana.\nThe senators who continued to oppose election fraud and moved to challenge Arizona’s certification were Ted Cruz, Josh Hawley, Tommy Tuberville, Cindy Hyde-Smith, Roger Marshall, and John Kennedy.\nThe House voted 303-121 against the objection, while the Senate rejected it in a 93-6 vote. Pennsylvania raised objection to electoral college votes as well, but also failed to receive support from both Houses of Congress.\nIn a resolution which many feel is incorrect, Biden received 306 electoral votes while Trump totalled at 232. Barring the unknown, Biden will be sworn in as the president on Jan. 20.\nTrump censored by social media\nAfter Biden accused Trump of having incited the violent protests in the Capitol, calling it an “insurrection,” Twitter deleted Trump’s two tweets, banning the president’s account for 12 hours. In addition, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has announced a ban on President Trump’s Facebook and Instagram pages until at least Jan. 20. “We believe the risks of allowing the president to continue to use our service during this period are simply too great. Therefore, we are extending the block we have placed on his Facebook and Instagram accounts indefinitely and for at least the next two weeks until the peaceful transition of power is complete,” Zuckerberg wrote in the post.\nFacebook also removed one of Trump’s videos, sending a misleading message implying that the president had not condemned the violence at the Capitol building, but rather condoned it. Yet, in the video, Trump can be observed asking supporters to go home and to continue upholding law and order, while comforting them in the face of what he alleged was an unfair loss. Many protesters left when they became aware of the president’s post, but it was only available for a short time.The FBI has asked for more information on the individuals who infiltrated the Capitol. Citizens who have any relevant information can submit it here. The submission may include multimedia files like images or videos.}}
{{FILE – In this Jan. 6, 2021, file photo, supporters of President Donald Trump climb the west wall of the the U.S. Capitol in Washington. Although pro-democracy and human rights activists around the globe were stunned to see a mob storm the Capitol, they say they were heartened and inspired because the system ultimately prevailed. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana File)\nWASHINGTON – Three men were charged today in federal court in the District of Columbia in connection with the riots at the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021.\nJacob Anthony Chansley, a.k.a. Jake Angeli, of Arizona, was charged with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority, and with violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds. Chansley was taken into custody today.\nIt is alleged that Chansley was identified as the man seen in media coverage who entered the Capitol building dressed in horns, a bearskin headdress, red, white and blue face paint, shirtless, and tan pants. This individual carried a spear, approximately 6 feet in length, with an American flag tied just below the blade.\nAdam Johnson, 36, of Florida, was charged with one count of knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; one count of theft of government property; and one count of violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds. Johnson was arrested yesterday and is currently in custody.\nIt is alleged that on Jan. 6, 2021, Johnson illegally entered the United States Capitol and removed the Speaker of the House’s lectern from where it had been stored on the House side of the Capitol building. A search of open sources led law enforcement to Johnson, who is allegedly seen in a widely circulated photo inside the Capitol carrying the lectern.\nDerrick Evans, 35, of West Virginia, was charged with one count of knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; and one count of violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol Grounds. Evans was taken into custody Friday.\nIt is alleged that on Jan. 6, 2021, Evans, a recently elected member of the West Virginia House of Delegates, streamed live to his Facebook page a video of himself joining and encouraging a crowd unlawfully entering the U.S. Capitol. In the video, Evans is allegedly seen crossing the threshold of the doorway into the U.S. Capitol and shouting, “We’re in, we’re in! Derrick Evans is in the Capitol!”\nThese cases are being prosecuted by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia and investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office and the United States Capitol Police.\nThe information contained in the charging documents are merely allegations. The defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty.\nThe ATF and FBI continue to urge the public to report suspected use of explosive devices, or violent, destructive acts associated with the recent unrest. Anyone with information can call 1-888-ATF-TIPS (1-888-283-8477), email ATFTips@atf.gov or submit information anonymously via ReportIt.com.\nThe FBI is looking for individuals who may have incited or promoted violence of any kind. Anyone with digital material or tips can call 1-800-CALL-FBI (800-225-5324) or submit images or videos at fbi.gov/USCapitol.Hansley SOFEvans complaint affidavitJohnson SOF}}
{{Protests over the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis police custody have spread to other areas across the United States.\nIn Florida, a group of about 10 protesters gathered Friday near a home that belongs to the officer who knelt on Floyd’s neck.\nIn New York City, protesters defied the coronavirus prohibition on public gatherings Thursday, clashing with police, while demonstrators blocked traffic in downtown Denver and downtown Columbus.\nA day earlier, demonstrators had taken to the streets in Los Angeles and Memphis.\nMeanwhile, a Mississippi mayor whose remarks about Floyd's death sparked outrage is resisting calls to resign, including from his own town’s board of aldermen.}}
{{Lebanese army soldiers stand guard at the scene where an explosion hit on Tuesday the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon, Thursday, Aug. 6, 2020. Lebanese army bulldozers plowed through wreckage to reopen roads around Beirut’s demolished port on Thursday as the government pledged to investigate the devastating explosion and placed port officials under house arrest. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla)\nResidents of Beirut vented their fury at Lebanon’s leaders Thursday during a visit by French President Emmanuel Macron, blaming them for the deadly explosion that ravaged the capital. Shouting, “Revolution!” they crowded around the visiting leader who promised to press the politicians for reform.\nA military judge leading the investigation into Tuesday’s blast said 16 employees of Beirut’s port, where the explosion took place, had been detained. He said 18 had been questioned, including port and customs officials, according to the state news agency.\nBut while investigators focus on port officials, many Lebanese put the blame squarely on the political elite and the corruption and mismanagement that even before the disaster had pushed the country to the brink of economic collapse.\nThe Cabinet was previously warned by a security agency that a stockpile of explosive chemicals stored at the port was dangerous, Lebanon’s customs chief told the Associated Press — a report that could raise questions of high-level neglect.\nThat stockpile of 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate set off the massive blast, apparently when touched off by a fire at the port. The chemical had been left sitting in a warehouse ever since it was confiscated from an impounded cargo ship in 2013.\nThe explosion, powerful enough to be felt in Cyprus across the Eastern Mediterranean, killed more than 130 people, wounded thousands and blasted buildings for miles around. Two days later, some 300,000 people — more than 12% of Beirut’s population — can’t return to their homes, officials estimate. Damaged hospitals are still struggling to deal with the wounded. Dozens are still missing. Officials have estimated losses at $10 billion to $15 billion.\nFurthermore, the disaster struck at a time when people’s savings have melted away, and unemployment and poverty have mounted in the financial crisis. Few have capacity to rebuild homes and businesses, and the government is scraping for dollars.\nAfter talks with Lebanese leaders, France’s Macron announced his country will organize a conference in the next few days with European, American, Middle Eastern and other donors to raise money for food, medicine, housing and other urgent aid.\nBut he warned Lebanon’s political elite that he wouldn’t give “blank checks to a system that no longer has the trust of its people.” He called on them to create a “new political order.”\nHe promised a “clear and transparent governance” so that the aid goes directly to the population and aid groups.\nIn startling scenes, Macron — whose country once was Lebanon’s colonial ruler — presented himself as a champion for the Lebanese to push change on their leadership.\nAfter visiting the devastated port, Macron walked through one of the worst-hit neighborhoods, Gemmayzeh, down a street lined with wrecked buildings.\nOn the narrow street, a crowd gathered around him and shouted their anger, chanting, “Revolution!” and “The people want to bring down the regime!” — slogans used at mass protests last year.\nMacron told them he would propose “a new political pact” when he met the government later. Then, he added, “I will be back on the first of September and if they can’t do it, I will keep my responsibility toward you.” He also promised that French aid would be given out with transparency and “will not go into the hands of corruption.”\nOne woman shouted at Macron, “You are sitting with warlords. They have been manipulating us for the past year.” He replied, “I’m not here to help them. I’m here to help you.” They then hugged.\nNotably, none of Lebanon’s top politicians have toured residential areas damaged by the blast, though President Michel Aoun and others did visit the port. Hours after Macron left Gemmayzeh, Justice Minister Marie-Claude Najm tried to visit, only to be driven out by protesters.\n“Resign, you criminal! Would you accept anything less if your sister were among those killed?” one protester shouted at her. As she was about to respond, another sprayed her with a water hose. She left as protesters chanted, “Revolution!” and “Resign.”\nBeirut’s hospitals remained overwhelmed by the wounded, and there were fears of a spike in coronavirus cases.\nIn one hospital, 4-month-old Sophie Ajoury, perhaps the smallest survivor of Tuedsay’s blast, was fighting for her life. She suffered head injuries while breastfeeding from her mother near a window with the shock wave hit.\nHer nurse said external bleeding had stopped, and the baby girl was awake and eating, and they were monitoring her condition for internal bleeding.\nEmergency aid was starting to come into Lebanon, with European, Arab and Asian countries sending doctors, medical supplies or field hospitals. The United Nations said Thursday it was releasing $9 million from its emergency fund for Lebanon to strengthen hospitals and intensive care units.\nHowever, the international community has been reluctant in past years to offer support to the notoriously dysfunctional government.\nThe same factions — and in most cases the same figures — have ruled Lebanon since the 1975-1990 civil war, including Iranian-backed Hezbollah. Almost all public institutions are divided up among the factions, which use them as patronage generators for themselves and their supporters. That means they tend to turn a blind eye to corruption, petty or major, and little actual development is put into the institutions. Even basic services like electricity and trash collection are a shambles.\nFor more than a decade, officials, watchdog groups and Lebanon’s media have reported on widespread corruption at the Port of Beirut, including bribery and hiding of merchandise from custom duties or taxes. One former finance minister has said corruption at the port cost the state more than $1 billion a year in revenues.\nThe investigation into the blast is focusing on how the chemical stockpile came to be stored in the port’s Warehouse 12 and why it was never dealt with. Authorities have promised to issue results within days, and President Michel Aoun promised whoever was responsible would be punished.\nLead investigator, military judge Fadi Akki, said 16 port employees have been detained and 18 people have been questioned so far, all port and customs officials as well as those in charge of maintenance at the warehouse where the ammonium nitrate was stored.\nThe investigators on Friday will interview the port’s general manager, Hassan Koraytem, and Ghazi Aridi, who was public works and transport minister in 2013, when the ship was impounded, a person familiar with the investigation said. The Central Bank also froze the bank accounts of several figures, including Koraytem and the head of the customs department, Badri Daher.\nDaher told the AP that State Security, one of Lebanon’s main security agencies, had been investigating the stockpile over the past year. During that investigation, State Security sent reports to the Cabinet, state prosecutor and other state institutions about the danger of the material.\nSecurity officials were not immediately available for comment. But if correct, it would be the first evidence that top level officials were notified of the danger so close to residential areas.\nDaher confirmed to the AP that he had sent a letter in 2017 to a judge warning of the danger from the ammonium nitrate and asking for guidance on what to do with the material. He said he and his predecessor sent six letters but never got a response.\n”I don’t know who they answered but we did not get any answers,” he said, adding that it wasn’t his job to deal with the stockpile but that he sent the letters out of safety concerns.\nHe said the port is run by an agency known as the Management and Investment of Port of Beirut. Asked if it took any measures, he said, “No, because had they done anything the problem would have had been solved.”}}
{{The Daily Star's FREE newsletter is spectacular! Sign up today for the best stories straight to your inbox Sign up today! Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email\nAn 'armed standoff' is currently ongoing in the US Capitol building – America's equivalent to the Houses of Parliament – after supporters of outgoing President Donald Trump stormed the building.\nThere are unconfirmed reports that a woman has been shot in the chest during the violent invasion which began when hundreds of protesters marched on the Capitol for a rally.\nTwo sources have said the victim is in a critical condition but no further details are available, CNN reports.\nImages circulating on social media appear to show a woman with a serious injury to her neck being carried out of the building.\nReporters on the scene covering the ugly scenes have described an armed stand-off at the door to the US House Chamber inside the Capitol, with guns drawn.\n(Image: REUTERS)\nFootage and images uploaded to social media show protesters, many heavily armed, wandering around inside the evacuated Senate chamber.\nThe Senate floor has since been cleared of rioters and police have regained control of the area, CNN reports.\nAll buildings within the Capitol Complex have now been placed into emergency lockdown.\nUS Capitol Police have evacuated two buildings on the Hill, including the Madison Library of Congress Building and the Cannon House Office Building.\nMeanwhile President Trump, who encouraged his supporters to march on the Capitol at a rally today, has tweeted asking the protesters to remain peaceful.\n"I am asking for everyone at the U.S. Capitol to remain peaceful," he said.\n"No violence! Remember, WE are the Party of Law & Order – respect the Law and our great men and women in Blue. Thank you!"\n(Image: REUTERS)\nThis is a breaking news story and is constantly being updated.\nPlease refresh the page regularly to get the latest updates.\nReporters working on dailystar.co.uk will be working to source the latest information, reaction, pictures and video related to this story.\nYou can also follow us on Twitter @DailyStar to get the latest news updates 24 hours a day.\nOr download the Daily Star app for flash alerts on the biggest stories of the day.\nWhy not also subscribe to receive our regular Daily Star news bulletins? You can do this on this page by simply entering your email address above and hitting 'subscribe'.}}
{{Jason Chaffetz called for the protesters who stormed Capitol Hill to be arrested and prosecuted to prove that actions have consequences, but the former Republican congressman pointed out that violent anti-police demonstrators weren’t always held accountable.\nChaffetz, who was the chairman of the U.S. House Oversight Committee when he served as a representative from Utah, said that anyone who breaks the law needs to be held accountable.\nCOVERAGE OF CAPITOL PROTESTS BY MAINSTREAM MEDIA CALLED OUT, COMPARED TO MONTHS OF ANTI-POLICE VIOLENCE\n"You need to be arrested and then you need to be prosecuted, you need to be in jail. People need to know there’s a consequence to this," Chaffetz told Harris Faulkner on "Outnumbered Overtime."\nViolence erupted on Wednesday following a speech by President Trump as lawmakers were in the process of certifying the Electoral College votes won by President-elect Joe Biden. Washington, D.C., police said the unrest left four dead and 52 arrested.\nThe Federal Bureau Investigation is seeking information to identify the pro-Trump protesters who stormed the Capitol. But Chaffetz noted that Vice President-elect Kamala Harris helped raise bail money for, and help free, sometimes-violent demonstrators earlier this year amid nationwide unrest over police brutality.\nPROTESTERS DESCEND ON NATION'S STATE CAPITALS AS CHAOS UNFOLDS IN DC\nHarris famously promoted the bail fund group that several Biden staffers donated to during the protests that followed the death of George Floyd, a Black man who died on May 25 while in the custody of Minneapolis police.\nThe fund group has posted bail for multiple alleged violent criminals, including an alleged murderer and a previously convicted rapist.\n"There are consequences to those types of actions and the media did not report it," Chaffetz said. "That’s not excuse for what happened at the Capitol, that was one of the most shameful, unpatriotic days that there is, I mean, it is a patriotic thing to protest, and I think that’s what most people were doing, but when you step over the line, and attack a police officer, when you’re smashing windows, when you’re going on the floor of the Senate, that’s as un-American as it gets.\n"I wanna see those people in jail with maximum sentences, but I want them to do the same thing for those people who were attacking the Federal courthouse for more than a month in Portland, Oregon. How come those people aren’t prosecuted?"\nChaffetz was referring to Portland’s Mark O. Hatfield U.S. Courthouse, which was the site of chaos last summer when rioters clashed with police offers on a nightly basis during violent protests.\nCLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP\n"Whether you’re a member of Congress or a Capitol Hill policeman… there is a lot of people that were hurt physically, but also mentally, and I’ve got to tell you, it’s just not who we are as a country," Chaffetz said.\n"It was a very shameful day."\nFox News’ Stephanie Giang-Paunon and Tyler Olson contributed to this report.}}
{{Democrats who dedicated last year to campaigning for President Joe Biden in Michigan said they felt senses of hope and relief Wednesday as their candidate officially took office.\nEddie McDonald, who was a senior adviser to Biden's campaign in Michigan, said he got a cup of tea, sat in front of his television to watch the inaugural festivities and didn't move.\n"I wanted to see every second of it," McDonald said.\nMcDonald, a longtime Democratic political operative in Michigan, got a call in July about working for Biden's presidential campaign. He talked to his wife about whether he was interested in the job.\n"She said, 'Hell yeah, you are,'" McDonald recalled Wednesday, saying taking the campaign's offer was probably one of the best decisions he's made.\nBiden's inauguration brought back good and sad memories, including thoughts of individuals who died before Wednesday, he said. He mentioned longtime Wayne County Commissioner Jewel Ware and Wayne County Sheriff Benny Napoleon, who both passed away last month.\n"This is a day of starting over. That’s probably the best way to see it," McDonald said.\nBiden won Michigan by 154,000 votes over the Republican incumbent, Donald Trump, on Nov. 3. Trump carried the state four years earlier by 10,704 votes against Democrat Hillary Clinton.\nMore than 30,000 volunteers helped with the campaign in Michigan, said Lavora Barnes, chairwoman of the Michigan Democratic Party. They made phone calls, knocked doors, wrote letters and hosted Zoom events, Barnes said.\n"This is your day to celebrate your part in bringing this about," Barnes said of the volunteers. "Frankly, Michigan played a big part in bringing this about.”\nAsked how she felt about the inauguration, Barnes responded, "It’s a lot of relief and a lot of hope of where we go from here."\nMark Brewer was Michigan's Democratic Party chairman for more than a decade. An attorney, he worked during the past year on legal and voter protection efforts for Democrats.\n"It’s hard to describe," Brewer said of his feelings Wednesday. "It’s really been a four-year effort to get to where we are.”\nBrewer said he felt a "tremendous sense of relief" about having Biden in the White House.\n"I am getting goose bumps as I talk to you,” Brewer said with a laugh.\ncmauger@detroitnews.com}}
{{There’s always that heartbreaking moment in any national moment of distress when you realize that, no, we’re not going to come together as a nation or do anything resembling that.\nIn the case of the Monday death of George Floyd — the Minneapolis man whose passing was, unless there’s a dramatic “Law & Order”-esque plot twist in store for us, precipitated in part or in whole by a police officer putting his knee on Floyd’s neck for roughly nine minutes during an arrest as Floyd complained he couldn’t breathe — I prayed that moment would come.\nIt was unlikely, sure, but it was a death that enraged conservatives and liberals, the political and apolitical, people of all races. We saw the video and we knew justice had to be served.\nIf there was ever a moment where we could maybe break bread over a national tragedy, this was it. I prayed for George Floyd’s loved ones, especially his family, but most importantly, I prayed for this nation. Let this be a moment from which a modicum of healing could emerge.\nOn Thursday morning I saw this and I knew it would all end in tears:\nTRENDING: Washington Inflates COVID-19 Numbers, Includes Gunshot Victims Among Deaths\nHeaded to Minneapolis today! — Reverend Al Sharpton (@TheRevAl) May 28, 2020\nThe Rev. Al Sharpton — the least plausible American clerical leader since Elmer Gantry, a man who’s never fully apologized for the anti-Semitic rhetoric which helped inflame the situation in the run-up to the Crown Heights riots in New York City in 1991, which ended in the death of a Jewish doctoral student (“If the Jews want to get it on, tell them to pin their yarmulkes back and come over to my house,” one sample Sharpton statement went) — was headed to Minneapolis to … well, clearly not to patch things up.\nSharpton’s learned a thing or two about decorum in 30 years, particularly since he has an MSNBC show to keep, but he wasn’t headed to Minneapolis to keep the peace. (To be fair, he did say that destroying “black-owned stores” was “reckless,” although the question about the rest of the businesses in Minneapolis rather asks itself.)\nAre riots an acceptable form of protest? Yes No Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. 0% (0 Votes) 0% (0 Votes)\nHowever, Sharpton needn’t have been there to throw kerosene on the figurative fires when there was plenty of literal fires being set.\nAnother question that rather asks itself, then: What would George Floyd have thought about this? What would he have thought about a small subset of protesters — rioters, really — laying waste to the city?\nAccording to the Minneapolis Star-Tribune, not only is Floyd’s girlfriend Courteney Ross “heartbroken” over what’s happened, she says Floyd would have been, too.\n“Waking up this morning to see Minneapolis on fire would be something that would devastate Floyd,” said Ross, who had dated the 46-year-old Floyd for roughly three years.\nRELATED: Melania's Response Condemning Riots Should Be Covered by Every Media Outlet in America\n“He loved the city. He came here [from Houston] and stayed here for the people and the opportunities,” she told the Star-Tribune. “Floyd was a gentle giant. He was about love and about peace.”\nHis relatives echoed similar statements through the family’s attorney, Benjamin Crump.\nThe statement thanked protesters “for joining them in standing for justice, [but] we also cannot sink to the level of our oppressors, and we cannot endanger each other as we respond to the necessary urge to raise our voices in unison and outrage.”\nI’m not entirely sure who the “oppressors” are here, but they could be the ones coming in to clean up the mess.\nMinnesota is now requesting more National Guard soldiers to deal with the problems on Minneapolis’ streets, according to Fox News.\nAs of Thursday, the chief of police said they weren’t even bothering to try protecting property.\nAnd meanwhile, we’re told this is a natural reaction to an injustice, particularly one perpetrated by a white cop on a person of color.\nA certain Martin Luther King Jr. quote has been getting quite a bit of play these past few days, one which is worth examining.\n“A riot is the language of the unheard,” King said in 1967.\n“And what is it that America has failed to hear? It has failed to hear that the plight of the Negro poor has worsened over the last few years. It has failed to hear that the promises of freedom and justice have not been met. And it has failed to hear that large segments of white society are more concerned about tranquility and the status quo than about justice, equality and humanity.”\nThat clip was tweeted out by the Martin Luther King Jr. Center in the wake of the George Floyd riots.\n“In the final analysis, a riot is the language of the unheard. And what is it that America has failed to hear?” pic.twitter.com/Als3jhxaGH — The Martin Luther King, Jr. Center (@TheKingCenter) May 28, 2020\nYet, as The Week noted, there’s a bit of deceptive editing there.\nBefore this, here’s what King said: “Let me say as I’ve always said, and I will always continue to say, that riots are socially destructive and self-defeating.”\nAnd far from being unheard, Floyd’s cries were heard and seen by millions upon millions, who condemned the officers and called for justice.\nWhen Rush Limbaugh says “I hope these cops are dealt with good and hard” and “I’ve seen the video like everybody else, and it makes me so mad I can’t see straight,” this isn’t a situation where there was much controversy about what should happen.\nLesser men than King are at work in Minneapolis, tragically.\nWhen Al Sharpton is on the scene providing leadership, you can guess how the situation will evolve — or devolve — from there. This is now about the riots and the media coverage of them, not about George Floyd. That’s the definition of self-defeat.\nGeorge Floyd’s death demands justice. Parts of his adopted city being reduced to ashes and rubble is the diametrical opposite of that.\nOne hopes the residents of Minneapolis will listen to his girlfriend — if just to honor the memory of the deceased. Please, let’s at least come together to do that.\nWe are committed to truth and accuracy in all of our journalism. Read our editorial standards.}}
{{Press Conference: New York Officials Respond To Riot At U.S. CapitolMayor Bill de Blasio and members of New York's congressional delegation spoke out after rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday.\n37 minutes ago\nCalifornia Woman Who Falsely Accused Black Teen Of Stealing Cellphone In Custody In New York CityMiya Ponsetto, the California woman who attacked a Black teenager and falsely accused him of stealing her cellphone at a hotel in SoHo, was extradited to New York City Saturday morning.\n3 hours ago\nNew York Weather: CBS2's 1/9 Saturday Morning UpdateJohn Elliott has the Tri-State Area's latest forecast on CBS2 News This Morning.\n5 hours ago\nFirefighters Hurt, Businesses Destroyed By Raging Fire In Flushing, QueensIt took more than 200 firefighters several hours to knock the flames down Saturday morning. But crews remain on the scene to put out hot spots. CBS2's Christina Fan reports.\n5 hours ago\nFanalysis NFL Wild Card Weekend: Sunday GamesCBSN New York's Steve Overmyer looks at NFL Wild Card Weekend with sports investment analyst Jared Smith, of SportsGrid, in the latest edition of Fanalysis.\n13 hours ago\nFanalysis NFL Wild Card Weekend: Saturday GamesCBSN New York's Steve Overmyer looks at NFL Wild Card Weekend with sports investment analyst Jared Smith, of SportsGrid, in the latest edition of Fanalysis.\n13 hours ago\nMetro-North Employee Will Pepe Suspended, Accused Of Rioting At U.S. CapitolA Metro-North employee has been suspended with pay, accused of taking part in the rioting at the U.S. Capitol.\n13 hours ago\nExclusive: New Yorkers Continue Holding Illegal Parties Despite Coronavirus GuidelinesFor months, we've been told to avoid large gatherings to slow the spread of COVID-19, but people continue to hold illegal parties. There have been dozens across New York City since the start of the pandemic; CBS2's Kiran Dhillon reports.\n14 hours ago\nConfederate Flag Found At Museum Of Jewish HeritageA symbol of hate was found in front of the Museum of Jewish Heritage.\n14 hours ago\nMiya Ponsetto Appears In Court After Falsely Accusing Black Teen Of Stealing Cell Phone In SoHo HotelThe woman who falsely accused a Black teenager of stealing her cell phone in a SoHo hotel in December was in court Friday in California. It came after a bizarre and exclusive interview with CBS News; CBS2's Nick Caloway reports.\n14 hours ago\nSome Problems Persist With COVID-19 Vaccinations In Tri-State AreaCOVID-19 vaccine doses are being administered as often as possible in the Tri-State Area, but some problems persist. Soon, new groups will be eligible for the shots; CBS2's Jessica Layton reports.\n15 hours ago\nNew York Weather: CBS2 1/8 Nightly Forecast at 11PMCBS2's Lonnie Quinn has your weather forecast for January 8 at 11 p.m.\n15 hours ago\nPolice Searching For Missing Teacher On Staten IslandPolice are searching for a missing teacher and mother of two on Staten Island.\n15 hours ago\nNYPD: Man Armed With Knife Shot By Police In QueensPolice shot a man who they say lunged at them with a knife Friday night in Queens.\n15 hours ago\nPresident Donald Trump Faces Possibility Of Being Impeached TwicePresident Donald Trump has been permanently banned from Twitter, and he's facing the very real possibility of becoming the only president in history to be impeached twice; CBS2's Dick Brennan reports.\n15 hours ago\nNYPD Gives Update On Police-Involved Shooting In QueensThe NYPD says an officer shot a man armed with a knife inside a Queens home Friday night.\n15 hours ago\nUSPS Data Shows More Than 333,000 New Yorkers Have Left City Since Beginning Of COVID PandemicThe city that never sleeps has certainly gotten quieter since the pandemic hit. People have left, many for good; CBS2's Jenna DeAngelis reports.\n17 hours ago\n2 Workers Hurt After Jeep Crashes Into Bagel ShopA car slammed into a bagel shop in Westchester County, sending two workers to the hospital.\n19 hours ago\n40 Long Island Students Selected For Prestigious Regeneron Science Talent SearchThousands of high school seniors vying to become the next science scholar sent in applications to our nation's capital, and a whopping 40 made the cut from public and private schools on Long Island. CBS2's Jennifer McLogan reports.\n19 hours ago\nMontefiore New Rochelle Hospital May Face Penalties After Vaccinating City Workers Before They Were EligibleMontefiore New Rochelle Hospital is in big trouble with the Cuomo administration after allowing some city workers and board of education staff to get the COVID-19 vaccine before they were eligible. CBS2's Tony Aiello reports.\n19 hours ago\nLong Island Teen Starts Remote Peer Tutoring ProgramIn-person tutoring completely stopped when schools went virtual. On Long Island, a teenager not only thought of a solution, he created one. CBS2's Steve Overmyer reports.\n20 hours ago\n'Mean Girls' Musical Will Not Reopen On BroadwayThe curtain closes for good on another Broadway show during the pandemic.\n20 hours ago\nNew York Weather: CBS2's 1/8 Friday Evening UpdateLonnie Quinn has the Tri-State Area's latest forecast on CBS2 News At 5.\n20 hours ago\nArcheological Dig To Preserve History Of Freed Slave Peter Crippen, Huntington's First Black Land OwnerThey're digging for history on Long Island. A centuries-old home cannot be saved, but artifacts buried on the property help tell the story of one of its founding Black families. CBS2's Carolyn Gusoff reports.\n20 hours ago}}
{{A 21-year-old man in Detroit, Michigan, was shot and killed when an unknown suspect fired shots into an occupied car on Friday night.\nThe unidentified victim was shot around 11:30 p.m. local time when a man approached a silver Dodge Caliber, occupied by the victim and two other men, and fired shots into the vehicle, police said in a Saturday statement, according to CBS News.\nGet push notifications with news, features and more.\nAll three men fled, but the shooter continued to fire bullets and killed the 21-year-old, who was driving the car.\nThe victim from Eastpointe was taken to the hospital, where he was later pronounced dead.\nThe shooting occurred downtown where protests against police brutality were taking place. Police have not confirmed whether the victim was part of the protests.\nImage zoom Protests in Detroit Friday\nThe protests came in response to the killing of George Floyd, an unarmed black man who died in police custody in Minneapolis, Minnesota, after a white officer, Derek Chauvin, pinned him to the ground with a knee on his neck.\nThough the epicenter of the unrest remains in Minneapolis, protests have erupted in cities across the U.S., including Detroit, where about 1,500 people gathered on Friday.\nIn a Facebook Live at 10:22 p.m., Police Chief James Craig said nine people had been arrested, the Detroit Free Press reported. By the end of the night, dozens more were arrested, according to the outlet.\nCraig added that some police officers had been attacked and one command officer was struck with a rock and taken to the hospital.\n“I will not stand by and let a small minority, criminals, come in here, attack our officers and make our community unsafe,” Craig said.\nImage zoom Protests in Detroit Friday\nEarlier that same day, Craig spoke out against Chauvin, who has now been charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter. The cases of three other police officers present at the time of Floyd's May 25 death are still under investigation.\n“Given what I saw in the video, the fact that this officer allegedly murdered. There was clear evidence to suggest there was probable cause to arrest this officer for murder,” Craig said Thursday, according to local news station WDET.}}
{{US President-elect Joe Biden delivers remarks before announcing his choices for attorney general and other leaders of the Justice Department at The Queen theatre on January 7, 2021 in Wilmington, Delaware. (AFP)\nEscorted back to their chambers by heavily armed security personnel, US lawmakers took their seats late on Wednesday evening, looking grim but determined to finish their task: and they did. At around 3.41am on Thursday, US Congress certified President-elect Joe Biden’s election victory.\nAll Democrats and most Republicans voted to reject two objections raised by Republican allies of outgoing President Donald Trump - electoral college results reported by Arizona and Pennsylvania, two of the seven key states that caused the president’s defeat.\nSome Republicans who had planned to object announced they had changed their minds.\n“When I arrived in Washington this morning, I fully intended to object to the certification of the electoral votes,” said Senator Kelly Loeffler, a Republican. “However, the events that have transpired today have forced me to reconsider and I cannot now, in good conscience, object.”\nLoeffler and David Perdue, both incumbent Republican senators from the state of Georgia, lost to their Democratic rivals Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff, which transferred control of the Senate to Democrats.\n“Trump and I’ve had a hell of a journey,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, a close Republican ally of Trump. “I hate it being this way. Oh my god! I hate it... but today, all I can say is, count me out. Enough is enough. I tried to be helpful.”\nThe objection to Arizona was defeated in a 303- 121 vote in Democratic-controlled House of Representatives and by 93- 6 in the Republican-controlled Senate, which was a stinging rebuke of the president and his Republican backers.\nAnd the objection to the certification of the Pennsylvania result was defeated 282-138 in the House and 92-7 in the Senate.\nMost Republicans had been opposed to the objections, calling them an unconstitutional overreach, as an attempt to replace people’s right to elect with the will of the Congress.\n“The constitution gives Congress a limited role. We cannot simply declare ourselves a national board of elections on steroids,” Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell had said in remarks in the chamber when it broke from the joint session to discuss the Arizona objection, before the rioters broke in. “The voters, the courts, and the states have all spoken. If we overrule them all, it would damage our republic forever.”\nMcConnell had set the tone for Republican lawmakers after they had reconvened. “The United States Senate will not be intimidated. We will not be kept out of this chamber by thugs, mobs… We will not bow to lawlessness or intimidation. We are back in our posts. We will discharge our duty under the constitution. Of our nation. And we’re going to do it tonight.”\nHouse Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a Democrat, tweeted, “Today’s shameful assault on our democracy - anointed at the highest level of government - must not deter us from our responsibility to the constitution. Tonight, we will move forward with the certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s election.”}}
{{What happens when a hugely polarised superpower chooses its leader while a pandemic rages and civil unrest keeps breaking out? We don't know yet either.\nThis week, you'll be swamped by data, projections, feelpinions and every other type of US election-related information under the sun, and it can be overwhelming.\nWe're here to help step you through it.\nThe US system means that even though there are more than 100 million votes cast across 50 states, the result will come down to a handful of states.\nThese are the ones to watch on election day (November 4 in Australia).\nA proportional map of the United States' electoral college\nWhat you need to know first is that to secure the presidency, Donald Trump or Joe Biden needs to win a majority of the 538 votes in what's called the electoral college. Each hexagon on this map represents one electoral college vote.\nAll 50 US states and the District of Columbia are allocated a number of votes, loosely based on population.\nCalifornia, for example, has the most votes at 55, while North Dakota has only three, which is the minimum. In most cases, the winner of the popular vote picks up all the electoral college votes in any given state.\nA candidate needs 270 of those votes to win, and they can get there through any combination of states.\nPolling suggests Biden is strongly favoured to win the nationwide popular vote, as Hillary Clinton did in 2016.\nBut the way the electoral college functions advantages Trump. This is partly because lower-population, mainly Republican-leaning states get the minimum three votes, no matter how small their population.\nMeanwhile, winning large majorities in big Democrat-voting states like California doesn't mean anything to the electoral college — the state still gets the same number of electoral college votes whether Biden wins the state by one vote, or 1 million.\nSome states reliably vote Democrat or Republican — and are tipped to do so again this year.\nAllocation of votes in the 'safe' states\nHere's what the map looks like with those 'safe' states allocated to Trump and Biden. As you can see, it's not enough to get either of them across the victory line.\nThe remaining states, where polling margins are thinner\nInstead, the winner will come down to what happens in a diverse mix of states where polling margins are much thinner.\nYou've probably heard a lot about three battleground states in the lead-up to this election — Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin.\nThree states which flipped to Trump in 2016\nThat's because in 2016, these states flipped to Trump with razor-thin margins after having voted Democrat for decades, effectively handing him the presidency.\nAnd these states are likely to be important again — but here's the catch...\nWisconsin and Pennsylvania are not allowed to begin processing or counting mail-in votes until election day.\nAnd both Michigan and Pennsylvania will continue accepting these ballots after election day, as long as they are postmarked by that date.\nSo this year's coronavirus-related surge in mail-in voting means counting in these states could go on for weeks, and it's unlikely we'll know their results on election day.\nSo what should we pay attention to on the day?\nThere's a clutch of states in the south and west which all pre-process their mail-in votes before election night. Some of them are even allowed to begin counting in advance.\nArizona, Florida, Georgia and North Carolina\nThis means we're more likely to know who wins them on election night, and depending how they fall, the election could be all over there and then.\nFlorida normally gets a lot of attention in US elections, and 2020 will be no exception. The last time it voted against the candidate that went on to win was in 1992.\nThe 11 electoral votes of Arizona, on the other hand, are normally a lock for the Republican candidate, but this year, polls indicate they're within Biden's reach.\nA little more out of reach for the Democrats are North Carolina and Georgia, which Trump won by margins of 3.6 and 5.1 points in 2016.\nBut this year, some polling averages are slightly favouring the Democrats in both states.\nBiden could surpass 270 votes by winning these states\nIf Biden wins all four of these states, it would be game over for Trump.\nBut even a win in the more blue-leaning pair, Florida and Arizona, could be an early indication of a shift in sentiment in other states.\nHowever, if Trump carries all, or at least some of these states, the focus moves north.\nTrump will leave Biden fewer paths to victory if he takes these states\nThe (formerly) blue wall\nRemember those three states that swung to Trump last time? Now, his 2016 path to victory is in play, and we're possibly in for weeks of waiting for the final result.\nBiden may rebuild the blue wall\nBut the polls say Biden is ahead in all three. While this was also true for Clinton in 2016, Biden's polling margin is greater in all three states.\nThese states often swing in the polls together, though that might not mean they all vote together this time.\nIf Biden wins all three, it would put him pretty close to the line.\nDemocrat-leaning seats could push Biden over the line\nHe would only need a couple of more Democrat-leaning states, like Minnesota and Nevada, to get him to the magic number. Clinton carried both these states in 2016.\nBut Trump only needs to hang on to Pennsylvania — where he is polling strongest out of the three states — as well as the other states he won in 2016, to prevent Biden from winning.\nTrump may hold on with the help of Pennsylvania\nAre there any other paths to victory?\nThe short answer is yes, but these paths are less likely.\nPolling suggests there are a grab-bag of other states where Trump or Biden could reverse the results of 2016.\nFlipping these states would greatly help either candidate\nBut these states are unlikely to flip on their own, without other, less safe states flipping as well.\nIn 2016, Trump won the southern state of Texas by nine points. Texas allows pre-processing and counting of mail-in votes, but will accept ballots after the election, so there may not be a clear picture of the result on the night.\nIt's a stretch, but polling indicates the Lone Star State is in play for the Democrats this time around, and its 38 electoral votes would pack a serious punch if Biden flipped it.\nTexas is in play this election\nHe'd only need a few more states that voted Democrat in 2016 to scrape over the finish line.\nBut in the event Texas goes blue, it's likely that other states would have shifted towards the Democrats also.\nIf Texas goes blue, Biden will likely pick up many more states\nAlternatively, Trump may have a shot at the blue-leaning states of Minnesota, New Hampshire and Nevada.\nTrump may reclaim a few blue-leaning states\nTrump lost New Hampshire by only 0.3 points in 2016, and Minnesota by 1.5 points.\nThese states on their own aren't enough for Trump to win.\nBut once again, we could assume a shift of this magnitude in these states would see other more Republican-leaning seats go red as well.\nTrump could gain even more ground than in his 2016 victory\nAre ties possible?\nYou may have already done the maths — half of 538 is 269. And that means it's indeed possible for the electoral college race to finish in a dead heat.\nA tie is a long shot, but possible\nCertain highly unlikely but still possible combinations could see the map all tied up.\nIn this case, Congress would decide who ascends to the presidency and vice-presidency.\nBut once again, it's a long shot — polling website FiveThirtyEight gives it less than a 1 per cent chance.\nThere's still a lot we don't know\nRight now in the states that could be up for grabs, polling is indicating a win for Biden.\nPolling shows likely wins for both candidates\nBut a combination of turn-out, mail-in ballot uncertainty and general polling errors could produce another result in these states come election day.\nPeople were shocked when polling errors masked a surprise victory for Trump in 2016, so pundits are understandably cautious about polls underestimating his support.\nBut in 2012, the polls underestimated support for another candidate — then president Barack Obama, who went on to win another term.\nKeep an eye on these states on election day\nIn any case, now you can head into election day with confidence in at least one thing: these are the ones to watch.\nCredits}}
{{Advertisement\n'We must call this out for what it is: a deliberate assault on Democracy by a sitting President & his supporters, attempting to overturn a free & fair election!'\nReaction from around the world to the storming of the U.S. Capitol by supporters of Donald Trump:\n___\n"A fundamental rule of democracy is that, after elections, there are winners and losers. Both have to play their role with decency and responsibility so that democracy itself remains the winner. ... President Trump regrettably has not conceded his defeat since November, and didn't yesterday either, and of course that has prepared the atmosphere in which such events, such violent events, are possible." — German Chancellor Angela Merkel.\nAdvertisement\n___\n"What is happening is wrong. Democracy — the right of people to exercise a vote, have their voice heard and then have that decision upheld peacefully — should never be undone by a mob." — New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern.\n___\n"What happened today in Washington, D.C., is not America, definitely. We believe in the strength of our democracies, we believe in the strength of American democracy." — French President Emmanuel Macron.\n___\n"American democracy is obviously limping on both feet. ... This, alas, is actually the bottom. I say this without a shadow of gloating. America no longer charts a course and therefore has lost all rights to set it — and even more so to impose it on others." — Konstantin Kosachev, head of the foreign affairs committee in Russia's upper house of parliament.\n___\n"This is an internal affair of the United States. At the same time, we draw attention to the fact that the electoral system in the United States is archaic; it does not meet modern democratic standards, creating opportunities for numerous violations, and the American media have become an instrument of political struggle. This largely was the reason for the split in society which is now observed in the United States." — Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova.\n——\n"The rampage at the Capitol yesterday was a disgraceful act and it must be vigorously condemned." — Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.\n___\n"Distressed to see news about rioting and violence in Washington DC. Orderly and peaceful transfer of power must continue. The democratic process cannot be allowed to be subverted through unlawful protests." — Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.\n___\n"Disgraceful scenes in US Congress. The United States stands for democracy around the world and it is now vital that there should be a peaceful and orderly transfer of power." — British Prime Minister Boris Johnson.\n___\n"In a democracy, the losing party must actually acknowledge its electoral defeat, admit it and contribute to a peaceful transfer of power to others." — Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg.\n___\n"We must call this out for what it is: a deliberate assault on Democracy by a sitting President & his supporters, attempting to overturn a free & fair election! The world is watching!" — Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney.\n___\n"The scenes we saw are the result of lies and yet more lies, of division and contempt for democracy, of hatred and rabble-rousing, including from the very highest level. This is a historic turning point for the United States, and it is an attack on liberal democracy as a whole. But I am sure that American democracy is stronger than this hatred." — German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier.\n___\n"The scenes from the U.S. Capitol show how dangerous the rhetoric of hatred is. Contempt for democratic institutions erodes citizens' rights and can undermine political order." — Slovakian President Zuzana Caputova.\n—-\n"Shocking scenes in Washington, D.C. The outcome of this democratic election must be respected." — NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg.\n—-\n"All should be very troubled by the violence taking place in Washington D.C. We hope American democracy is resilient, deeply rooted and will overcome this crisis. Democracy presupposes peaceful protest, but violence and death threats —from Left or Right— are ALWAYS wrong." — Slovenia's Prime Minister Janez Jansa.\n__\n"This is a lesson to be learnt: that strong institutions and not strong personalities are the bulwark of a rich democratic culture." — Former Nigerian vice president Atiku Abubakar, a recent losing presidential candidate.\n—-\n"The world considered America as a successful model of democracy, but we have witnessed the chaos, the assault against congress members and the looting. Same as third-world countries!" — Iraqi lawmaker Hakim al-Zamili.}}
{{SEE NEW POSTS\nSchumer vows to fire Senate sergeant at arms after Capitol riot Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said that after the events in the Capitol on Wednesday that if the Senate sergeant at arms, Michael Stenger, has not vacated his position by the time Schumer becomes majority leader, he will fire him. “If Senate Sergeant at Arms Stenger hasn't vacated the position by then, I will fire him as soon as Democrats have a majority in the Senate," Schumer said. The Sergeant at Arms serves as the protocol and chief law enforcement officer and is the principal administrative manager for most support services in the Senate. Share this -\nTransportation Secretary Elaine Chao stepping down It has been the honor of a lifetime to serve the U.S. Department of Transportation. pic.twitter.com/rFxPsBoh6t — Sec. Elaine Chao (@SecElaineChao) January 7, 2021 Share this -\nCapitol rioter who put feet on Pelosi's desk got PPP loan Richard Barnett sits in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office Wednesday. Sau Loeb / AFP - Getty Images Richard Barnett, the Capitol rioter photographed with his feet on a desk in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office, received a $9,300 forgivable loan under the Paycheck Protection Program last April, records show. An independent glass and glazing contractor in Gravette, Arkansas, Barnett was an early participant in the federal program that aimed to help small businesses survive COVID-related shutdowns and continue paying their employees. In his PPP application, Barnett, 60, said the loan would preserve one job, presumably his own, and was based on total payroll costs of $44,640 at his enterprise. Barnett did not mention receiving government assistance when he bragged to The New York Times about breaking into Pelosi's office and leaving her a nasty note. Efforts to reach Barnett were unsuccessful. Share this -\nDeputy national security adviser Pottinger resigns Deputy national security adviser Matthew Pottinger has resigned, his boss said Thursday. "Asking Matt Pottinger to serve as my deputy was my first act as NSA and it turned out to be one of my best decisions. As he heads West to rejoin his family in beautiful Utah, Matt does so with my appreciation for a job well done and with my enduring friendship," O'Brien wrote in a pair of tweets. O'Brien added that Pottinger's work led "to a great awakening in our country and around the world to the danger posed by the Chinese Communist Party." O'Brien didn't offer an explanation on the timing of the resignation, which came after Trump-supporting rioters stormed the Capitol building on Wednesday. Numerous other officials, including former acting chief of staff Mick Mulvaney, have resigned from the administration in the wake of Wednesday's violence, and Mulvaney told CNBC he expected there would be others following suit. Share this -\nD.C. mayor says Trump 'must be held accountable' for Capitol riot, demands control of Nat'l Guard Mayor Muriel Bowser of Washington, D.C., said Thursday that President Donald Trump instigated the storming of the U.S. Capitol and “must be held accountable for this unprecedented attack on our Democracy.” “What happened yesterday, he wanted to happen,” Bowser said at a new conference. “What happened yesterday is textbook terrorism.” Bowser said that Wednesday’s assault by a mob of Trump supporters was enabled by “catastrophic security failures” and called on Congress to “immediately transfer command” of the District of Columbia National Guard from Trump to her office to prevent a repeat of the violence that shocked the country and resulted in the deaths of four people. “We will be looking very closely at what we learned,” Bowser said, when asked how the district is preparing for the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden in less that two weeks. Among other things, the 7-foot “nonscalable fencing will be in place around the Capitol until after the inauguration” and there will be a much bigger security contingent on hand, the mayor said. Bowser noted that the federal police response to the George Floyd demonstrations over the summer was much swifter. “I’m upset by what this president has done to this city and our democracy,” she said. “I’m upset that my police officers were put in harm’s way, when they were just doing their jobs.” Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who also spoke to reporters, said when asked why no troops were deployed to the Capitol ahead of Tuesday’s electoral vote counting that “no request of the D.C. National Guard was made to come onto the grounds.” Share this -\nD.C. police release photos of people from Capitol riot they want to identify The Metropolitan Police Department released photos Thursday of rioters at the Capitol that they want to identify. Among the photos is one of a notorious QAnon supporter, who goes by Q Shaman, whose attire had people on Twitter likening him to Chewbacca. A protester screams "Freedom" inside the Senate chamber after the Capitol was breached by a mob during a joint session of Congress on Jan. 06, 2021. Win McNamee / Getty Images An unidentified rioter was fired from his job due to "demonstrating dangerous conduct that endangers the health and safety of others," Navistar Direct Marketing said in a tweeted statement. The Maryland company did not name the employee. Here are the rest of the photos the department released. Police are offering a $1,000 reward to anyone who provides information that leads to arrests and indictments of one or more of the rioters. Share this -\nOcasio-Cortez calls on Cruz and Hawley to resign Sen. Cruz, you must accept responsibility for how your craven, self-serving actions contributed to the deaths of four people yesterday. And how you fundraised off this riot.\nBoth you and Senator Hawley must resign. If you do not, the Senate should move for your expulsion. https://t.co/O2m6T59LYP — Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (@AOC) January 7, 2021 Share this -}}
{{https://www.dailywire.com/news/feds-arrest-man-who-allegedly-pinned-officer-in-door-jam-during-u-s-capitol-riot\nFederal authorities announced on Wednesday that a man captured on video allegedly using a police riot shield to pin an officer in a door jam during the siege on the U.S. Capitol has been identified, arrested, and charged for his role in the January 6 breach.\nPatrick Edward McCaughey III, 23, of Ridgefield, Connecticut, was arrested in South Salem, New York, on Tuesday and charged with assaulting, resisting, or impeding certain officers or employees; civil disorder; entering a restricted building or grounds, and violent entry or disorderly conduct.\nAuthorities say video evidence shows McCaughey committing crimes inside the Capitol Building, including a viral clip where he can be seen as part of an unruly mob that allegedly assaulted Officer Daniel Hodges of the Metropolitan Police Department.\n“Officer Hodges begins to cry out in pain as MCCAUGHEY pins Officer Hodges’ body between MCCAUGHEY’s clear police riot shield and the lower west terrace door,” says an affidavit by an FBI Task Force Officer whose name was redacted.\nHodges survived the ordeal, telling WJLA News, “That was one of the three times that day where I thought: Well, this might be it.”\nA witness contacted the FBI National Threat Operations Center and identified McCaughey as the person in the video with the shield after law enforcement asked for the public’s help in finding the suspect.\n*UPDATE* Please see the release for more information: https://t.co/bLNdKLSVUr pic.twitter.com/97pMop0kqa — DC Police Department (@DCPoliceDept) January 16, 2021\nThe Department of Justice provided more details on the accusations against McCaughey:\nAs the officer was being pinned to the door by McCaughey, a separate rioter was violently ripping off the officer’s gas mask, exposing the officer’s bloodied mouth. As McCaughey was using the riot shield to push against the officer, numerous other rioters behind and around McCaughey appeared to add to the weight against the officer.\n“The vicious attack on Officer Hodges was abhorrent and quintessentially un-American,” said Acting U.S. Attorney Michael R. Sherwin. “It is my pledge that anyone involved in violent attacks on law enforcement at the U.S. Capitol on January 6 will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. McCaughey’s alleged actions were an assault on Officer Hodges, the Capitol, and the rule of law itself.”\nAccording to the investigator’s affidavit, a YouTube video captured McCaughey telling Officer Hodges, “Just go home dude.” The document said the phrase “come on man, you are going to get squished just go home,” is audible, noting that McCaughey’s mouth was out of frame, but the tone and volume are consistent with his voice. It says at one point, McCaughey “touches Officer Hodges’ helmet and lowers Officers Hodges’ helmet’s shield” before he “taps the officer behind Officer Hodges on the shoulder and appears to state: ‘Hey you, hey you, this guy isn’t doing too well” appearing to be referencing Officer Hodges.” Authorities said he struck other uniformed officers with the shield.\nThe Associated Press reported:\nA federal magistrate judge in New York ordered McCaughey detained without bail Wednesday afternoon, saying his actions were disturbing and he presented a threat to the community. McCaughey’s case is being transferred to Washington and he is detained pending proceedings there early next month. … McCaughey’s public defender, Jason Ser, asked for bail to be set at $150,000, saying his client was not as “maniacal and dangerous” as federal prosecutors were portraying him. Ser said other people were pushing McCaughey, and other parts of the video show McCaughey trying to help Hodges by lowering the officer’s face shield and telling another officer that Hodges was injured. McCaughey, who has both U.S. and German citizenship, is unemployed and lives with his mother in Ridgefield, an affluent town along the New York border, Ser said. He was arrested at his father’s second home, where he was quarantining.\nMcCaughey could face a minimum sentence of five years in prison if convicted, a prosecutor said.\nThe Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.\nShare this: Twitter\nFacebook}}
{{In what could be the longest of legal longshots, several of those arrested for storming the U.S. Capitol are holding out hope that President Donald Trump will use some of his last hours in office to grant the rioters a full and complete pardon. Longtime advisers to Trump are urging him against such a move but the rioters contend their argument is compelling: They went to the Capitol to support Trump, and now it’s time for Trump to support them. Among them is Dallas-area real estate agent Jenna Ryan, who says, “I feel like I was basically following my president.”}}
{{After years of supporting Trump with little criticism of him, the influential McConnell has said he’s not decided whether he would vote to convict him. His decision may prove critical because in a Senate that will be divided 50-50 between the two parties, it would take 17 Republicans to join all Democrats for the two-thirds margin needed for conviction.}}
{{MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — The jury reached a verdict Tuesday at the murder trial of former Officer Derek Chauvin in the death of George Floyd, the Black man who was pinned to the pavement with a knee on his neck in a case that set off a furious reexamination of racism and policing in the U.S.\nThe verdict, arrived at after about 10 hours of deliberations over two days, was to be read late in the afternoon in a city on edge against the possibility of more unrest like that that erupted last spring.\nThe courthouse was ringed with concrete barriers and razor wire, and thousands of National Guard troops and law enforcement officers were brought in ahead of the verdict. Some businesses boarded up with plywood.\nFloyd died last May after Chauvin, a 45-year-old now-fired white officer, pinned his knee on or close to the 46-year-old Black man’s neck for about 9 1/2 minutes as Floyd gasped that he couldn’t breathe and onlookers yelled at Chauvin to get off.\nThe jury, made up of six white people and six Black or multiracial people, weighed charges of second-degree unintentional murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter, with convictions on some, none or all of the charges possible. The most serious charge carries up to 40 years in prison.\nThe city has been on edge in recent days — not just over the Chauvin case but over the deadly police shooting of a 20-year-old Black man, Daunte Wright, in the nearby Minneapolis suburb of Brooklyn Center on April 11.\nEarlier in the day Tuesday, President Joe Biden weighed in by saying he believes the case is “overwhelming.”\nHe said that he had spoken to Floyd’s family on Monday and “can only imagine the pressure and anxiety they’re feeling.”\n“They’re a good family and they’re calling for peace and tranquility no matter what that verdict is,” Biden said. “I’m praying the verdict is the right verdict. I think it’s overwhelming, in my view. I wouldn’t say that unless the jury was sequestered now.”\nThe president has repeatedly denounced Floyd’s death but previously stopped short of commenting on the trial itself.\nOther politicians and ordinary citizens also offered their opinion as the jury was deliberating.\n“It shouldn’t be really even questioned whether there will be an acquittal or a verdict that doesn’t meet the scale of the crime that was committed,” Rep. Ilhan Omar, a Democrat, said in Brooklyn Center. The congresswoman said the Chauvin case looks open-and-shut.\nGuilty verdicts could mark a turning point in the fight for racial equality, she said.\n“We are holding on to one another for support. Hopefully this verdict will come soon and the community will start the process of healing,” Omar said.\n___\nWebber reported from Fenton, Michigan. Associated Press video journalist Angie Wang in Atlanta and Associated Press writers Doug Glass, in Minneapolis, Mohamed Ibrahim in Brooklyn Center, Minnesota, and Todd Richmond in Madison, Wisconsin, contributed.\n___\nFind AP’s full coverage of the death of George Floyd at: https://apnews.com/hub/death-of-george-floyd}}
{{FILE – In this Jan. 6, 2021, file photo supporters of President Donald Trump are confronted by U.S. Capitol Police officers outside the Senate Chamber inside the Capitol in Washington. An Arizona man seen in photos and video of the mob wearing a fur hat with horns was also charged Saturday in Wednesday’s chaos. Jacob Anthony Chansley, who also goes by the name Jake Angeli, was taken into custody Saturday, Jan. 9. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta, File)\nWASHINGTON (WFLA/NEXSTAR) — The shirtless man donning horns and carrying a US Flag on a spear has been arrested after being accused of participating in the riots at the Capitol building in D.C. Wednesday.\nJacob Anthony Chansley, a.k.a. Jake Angeli, was a face that stood out from the crowd as the mob of President Trump supporters stormed the Capitol building. The US Department of Justice announced Saturday that the 32-year-old Arizona native has been charged with two federal counts.\nThose counts are:\nKnowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority\nViolent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds\nChansley is a purported QAnon conspiracy theorist sometimes referred to as the “QAnon Shaman,” according to the Arizona Republic’s website.\nIn the past year, Angeli has been spotted — often in costume — at various demonstrations across the country, including a Washington D.C. protest after Joe Biden’s presidential win in November.\nThe Arizona native has also been photographed multiple times at the Arizona State Capitol — and in one instance, during a pro-Trump rally in February, held a sign that read, “Q Sent Me,” according to the paper.\nLATEST STORIES:}}
{{Two men recorded in now notorious images from the Jan. 6 riot in Washington were charged in federal court Saturday for violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\nFederal officials said one of the men, 36-year-old Adam Johnson, of Florida, removed Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi’s lectern from its storage spot and was photographed carrying it through the Capitol building.\nFederal officials also charged Jacob Anthony Chansley, also known as Jake Angeli, and said he was taken into custody Saturday. Mr. Chansley allegedly was photographed entering the Capitol building shirtless with red, white and blue face paint while wearing a bearskin headdress with horns and carrying a six-foot-long spear with an American flag tied below the blade.\nMr. Johnson and Mr. Chansley couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.\nRioters wearing Trump paraphernalia breached the Capitol building Wednesday as lawmakers met to ratify President-elect Joe Biden’s Electoral College win. President Trump had just spoken to supporters at an event near the White House and urged them to go to the Capitol.\nA booking photo of Adam Johnson released by the Pinellas County Sheriff's Office in Florida. Photo: Agence France-Presse/Getty Image\nA woman who was walking out of the garage at Mr. Johnson’s house Friday said he didn’t live there and declined to answer further questions, although neighbors confirmed he lived at that address. Mr. Johnson’s wife didn’t respond to a message left at her office Thursday.\nFlorida resident Allan Mestel said he recognized Mr. Johnson and reported him to the Federal Bureau of Investigation Thursday.\n“To see that smug grin on his face as he looted the Capitol, I was enraged,” said Mr. Mestel, a documentary photographer who said he opposes Mr. Trump’s administration. “I am delighted he was arrested.”\nMr. Mestel said two special agents called him the following morning to follow up on his tip. Records show Mr. Johnson was booked in the Pinellas County Jail Friday night.\nFederal officials said in a news release that “a search of open sources led law enforcement to Johnson.” He was charged with knowingly and unlawfully entering a restricted building, theft of government property and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\nMr. Chansley, who is from Arizona, was charged with knowingly and unlawfully entering a restricted building as well as violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds. He was taken into custody Saturday, according to the District of Columbia U.S. Attorney’s Office.\nAccording to court documents, Mr. Chansley called the FBI on Thursday to confirm his identity and said he traveled to Washington with other “patriots” from Arizona.\nDerrick Evans, a newly elected Republican in the West Virginia House of Delegates, was also charged Saturday with knowingly and unlawfully entering a restricted building and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds, according to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia.\nMr. Evans, 35, allegedly live-streamed a video of himself entering the U.S. Capitol building along with other rioters and shouting, “We’re in, we’re in! Derrick Evans is in the Capitol!”\nMr. Evans didn’t immediately return a request for comment. He was taken into custody Friday, according to federal officials.\n—Deanna Paul and Michael M. Phillips contributed to this article.}}
{{WILMINGTON, Del. (NewsNation Now) — President-elect Joe Biden is heading to the nation’s capital one day before he’s officially sworn in as the 46th president of the United States.\nBiden and incoming first lady Dr. Jill Biden attended a send-off event in Wilmington, where the president-elect has been coordinating policy plans and appointing roles within his administration during the transition period.\nIn an emotional farewell, Biden promised that even as he headed to Washington to be sworn in, “I’ll always be a proud son of the state of Delaware.”\nSpeaking at the National Guard headquarters in Delaware named for his late son, Beau, Biden’s voice became thick with emotion as he told the crowd that “when I die, I’ve got Delaware written on my heart.”\n“It’s deeply personal that our next journey to Washington starts here — the place that defines the very best of who we are as Americans,” said Biden.\nBiden gave farewell remarks to about 100 people, including numerous Delaware elected officials and members of Biden’s family. You can watch his full remarks below.\nLater in the day, Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris will participate in a lighting ceremony at the Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool, honoring the lives lost to COVID-19. Americans are invited to join in on the “national moment of unity and remembrance” by lighting a candle at 5:30 p.m. EST, while cities around the U.S. plan to illuminate buildings and ring church bells.\nPresident Donald Trump doesn’t have any appearances scheduled for Tuesday, as of 2 p.m. EST. But, he is expected to issue pardons and commutations on his last full day in office.\nMeanwhile, several of Biden’s Cabinet appointees will be vetted by the Senate Tuesday.\nBiden’s pick for Treasury secretary, Janet Yellen, met with the Senate Finance Committee at 10 a.m. EST, the same time that a hearing took place for the president-elect’s choice for director of national intelligence, Avril Haines. The Senate’s Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs panel also interviewed Alejandro Mayorkas, Biden’s pick for Homeland Security secretary, at that time.\nSenate panel hearings for Secretary of State nominee Antony Blinken and Retired Army General Lloyd Austin will begin later in the afternoon Tuesday.\nTune into NewsNation on WGN America at 8/7c tonight for a full report.}}
{{The United States Department of Justice said 13 people have been charged in federal court for crimes committed during a violent riot that occurred on Wednesday when a mob of Trump supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol.\n"The lawless destruction of the U.S. Capitol building was an attack against one of our Nation’s greatest institutions," said Acting U.S. Attorney Michael Sherwin. "My Office, along with our law enforcement partners at all levels, have been expeditiously working and leveraging every resource to identify, arrest, and begin prosecuting these individuals who took part in the brazen criminal acts at the U.S. Capitol."\nRELATED: Timeline of the pro-Trump riot at the US Capitol: How the chaos unfolded\n"We are resolute in our commitment to holding accountable anyone responsible for these disgraceful criminal acts, and to anyone who might be considering engaging in or inciting violence in the coming weeks – know this: you will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law," Sherwin said.\nAmong those charged was 60-year-old Richard Barnett, who the DOJ said was charged with "Knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful entry; violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and theft of public money, property, or records."\nOn Wednesday, Barnett was photographed sitting inside House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office with one leg propped up, resting on her desk.\nAdvertisement\nA spokesperson for Arkansas police and a senior official for the DOJ confirmed on Friday that law enforcement took Barnett into custody in Little Rock, Ark.\nRichard Barnett, a supporter of US President Donald Trump sits inside the office of US Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi as he protest inside the US Capitol in Washington, DC, January 6, 2021.\nAfter the break-in, Barnett told KFSM he was looking for the bathroom when he saw the door to Pelosi’s office was open.\n"I sat down here in my desk. I’m a taxpayer. I’m a patriot. That ain’t her desk — we loaned her that desk," he reportedly said. "And she ain’t appreciating the desk, so I thought I would sit down and appreciate the desk."\nA second suspect, Lonnie Coffman – whom AL.com identified as being 70 years old – was found to have been in possession of two handguns, an assault rifle and 11 Molotov cocktails that included gasoline and materials that appeared to constitute homemade napalm, the official said.\nRELATED: Facebook, Twitter remove Trump video calling violent supporters 'very special'\nCoffman, from Falkville, Ala., was identified after police linked him to a suspicious red GMC pick-up truck with Alabama plates.\nAlso charged was Mark Leffingwell, accused of knowingly entering restricted ground and assaulting an officer after he entered the Capitol. Court papers released Thursday in connection with his U.S. Capitol Police (USCP) arrest show Leffingwell repeatedly punched a USCP officer in the helmet and chest.\nAnother man is Christopher Michael Alberts, a Maryland man, accused of illegally entering the Capitol while in possession of a loaded Taurus 9mm handgun, as well as a separate magazine filled with ammunition. USCP said Alberts, who was wearing a bulletproof vest, had "immediately tried to flee" before police detained him, court papers show. He also allegedly had a pocketknife at the time.\nAlberts told police he had the gun "for personal protection and he did not intend on using the firearm to harm anyone," court papers show.\nOfficials previously announced the arrests of 82 individuals at the state, local and federal levels, according to reports.\nThe FBI’s Washington Field Office early Friday morning released 40 photos of people who are wanted in connection with Wednesday’s events.\nThe DOJ released a full list of the 13 who were charged, including their crimes, on their website.\nFOX News contributed to this story.}}
{{Transcript for President-elect Joe Biden delivers remarks ahead of departure to Washington\nThis is an ABC news special report now reporting chief anchor George Stephanopoulos. Good afternoon we're coming on the air right now because prison like Joseph Biden is about to give his final speech in his home state of Delaware. Before becoming president of the United States let's take a look now at the scene there. In Wilmington. Delaware National Guard joint force headquarters at six in New Castle county Delaware. It's named after Beau Biden of course the president whom he is the president elect's son who died of brain cancer. Serving in Africa serving in the National Guard as attorney general of Delaware that is the governor of Delaware John Carney about to introduce the president elect let's listen. When YouTube. Became voice present it. I didn't think it got any better than that. For our small little state. Today. I could not be more proud. To be the governor of this state. That gave the country Joseph Biden. I don't envy the job ahead of you. Our country is lucky. You're either willing to do it. But you know. How much is at stake and we eat in Delaware where. Know how much you love our country. You are what this country needs. You or what we all need. And so. As you head out to Washington. Know that you have the thoughts and prayers. We're grateful. And incredibly proud. State of Delaware. May the wind. Be always start your back. Ladies and gentlemen. The next president of the United States. Joseph Biden. Governor. I'm Traci. All my friends that are here. Have you done for me. This my family. Throughout the year. We've been affirmed the long time to look out there and I. Seeing. It might previously. Might come glad you're healthy man you're here. You know hero. This kind of emotional. Thought. Through a metal career. And through good times and bad. The want to thank you very into my fellow fellow earns in behalf of the entire Biden family. Is here today I want to express how much you mean. To me to everyone of us. You know you know our family values we share the character we strive. For the way we view the world it all comes home all comes from Delaware. Stage it gave my mother and father. A whole memo livelihood. When they needed most. The state made my brother and sister and I both of whom are here. Understand that we could do whatever we dreamed. Whatever that was. And it gave me a chance not just a kid reelect me to. And believed in me is sent me United States before going to county council after on the county council. We're Joseph alive found one another. Where she may be stronger as Ernest Hemingway wrote and all the broken places. Didn't. Who state that loves our children our grandchildren. And look Garbo and he's so loved you right back. General Barry. When headquarters was named after Mo. I told general level as time TVs every new me and hundreds actually to joke draw whole family. Could blow would be the first to say the honor goes in the men and women and the Delaware National Guard and their families. Who gave so much. For true patriots. A defiant. By the courage of their character. And so it's deeply first personal. And our next journey to Washington. Starts here. A place. That defines the very best. Of who we ours Americans. I know the I know these are dark socks. But there's always low. That's it makes this state so special lesson it taught me and taught me the most is always life. When I came home after graduating from Delaware and they're going out a law school it's Syracuse I get home. After law school. To Wilmington. To our county. Big got dark. Doctor King was assassinated. Will make certain embedded as slaves. The National Guard and control the streets. And that term morrow there's Barton may become a public defender. A step by never anticipated would leave me toward this improbable journey. We're trauma years of cars waiting and to train station in Wellington. For a block grant to pick me. On our way to Washington. Or were sworn in. As president and vice president of the United States of America. Visionary art today. My family and I about a return to Washington. To me a black woman the South Asian descent. To be sworn in as president and vice president. Of the United States. Fax oh ball on that station waiting for Brockton honor I should actually I sit don't tell me. Things can't change. They can. Do they do. That's America. That's Delaware. A place of hope in life. And limitless possibilities. And I'm honored. I'm truly honored to be here next president and commander in chief. And I'll always be a proud son and the state of Delaware. Stop your better known as its chairman carper who. Senator carper. Knows my colleagues in the senate is always kid me for quoting Irish poets. They thought I did it because on March. I didn't do it for that reason. I did because they're the best cars in world. Did you enjoy ice jams Joyce. Was said to have told a friend. That witnesses come when it comes it's time to pass. When he dies he said in Dublin. Dublin we really know my hard. Well. Tuesday motion. When I die. Delaware renew my heart. My heart's. Parts of all book all of us all the blinds. We love you all. We view them their forests in the good news bad. He never walked away. Didn't. I'm proud proud. Proud proud to do some don't Wear. And I'm even more proud. He's seeing here. Doing this room major worldwide. So. Please gentlemen. We're more regret. He's here. Maybe she should we should be reduced industry. Are we are great opportunities. Diller is taught us it is possible. Kennedy's possible was countries god bless you won't. And may god protect our troops French. Farewell to Delaware in his home state. The president killed not emotion until I. Just heard him say it right there's so many should be up there are children and expressed his nobody's talking. Apologizing for that emotion that it is understandable. Joseph Biden first elected to the New Castle county council. Back in 1970 then the youngest. Senator in the country in 1972 now heading to Washington. And the oldest president elected in American history. Korean any chief White House correspondent Cecilia Vega. Because he said Delaware written on his heart. Somewhere written on his territory reading what we're seeing is. These two things there we're seeing a father. Who is still grieving and mourning the loss of his son. And we should note that Beau Biden was 46 when he passed away Joseph Biden will be sworn in. The matter of hours now as a 46 president. Of the United States and we're seeing a politician. Come full circle someone who has wanted this is so badly. Someone who today's C was late he was surprised that he's there right now that he really couldn't believe that this was actually happening this team's dream that he's been chasing. He wasn't even thirty years old George when he won that senate seat. Back in the seventies he was weeks away from being old enough to be sworn in. And the tragedy that he has lived. In those years cents losing a wife and losing your daughter of course losing a son and an all all the friends I've I've spoken to in the days leading up to this they tell me is that grief. That ability to empathize. That makes Joseph Biden a man that he is today and frankly the politician that he can relate to the struggles that people live with particularly in this time of hardship in our country right now. Sourcing has come full circle for Joseph Biden and clearly he's emotional and and I imagine we'll see this motion carry through tomorrow. That empathy may have been his greatest street from the presidential campaign thank you Cecilia wandering in our chief Washington correspondent and I John Carlin John couple points with you first of all it's hard. Not to start up by saying boy what a contrast. Between the incoming president and the outgoing president. Powell arrive I then the these men couldn't be more different their approaches to politics couldn't be more different to Biden. Ran his campaign largely. On the idea of uniting America and saying over and over again that he was going to be. The president of all Americans not just Democrats not just Republicans. All all Americans a unifying message now the challenge will be whether or not he can he can act on. Cindy and John this is coming as soon. Washington also preparing for the second impeachment. Trial of president trumpet and a significant statement probably in his final speech as the senate Republican leader. Mitch McConnell I give a speech on the senate floor saying that president trump. Provoked the writers on January 6. Bob point blank he did not spot couch those words he came right out and said it he put blame. Four that riot on. President trump and other powerful people that's what he said exactly president trump and other powerful people for provoking. That riot very significant George because as we. Go into what we expect to be a senate trial starting very soon perhaps by next week. By Joseph Mitch McConnell has not said how he would vote is not said whether or not he would. Vote to convict. Donald Trump and remember in the first impeachment he came right out in the beginning and said that the impeachment was ridiculous that he be working would be president's legal defense team. In its route the the impeachment trial not so this time while McConnell was very much. Five days at this point hoping to convicting the president's from his own party. Extraordinary confluence of events in Washington turner security thank you John in Washington as Wallace want to bring our Chief Justice correspondent Pierre Thomas appear. The president elect was supposed to be taking Amtrak which is course was his transportation of choice when he's a senator for so many years into Washington. That had to be canceled because of the security concerns what's the latest on security threat right now. Jersey he's not taking the train because us the security situation is so serious. And George as you point out he's returning to Washington in the aftermath of an insurrection a violent assault. On the capital. And as a result speaks the security here is extraordinary. There are two nearly twenty 2000 National Guard on duty thousands of police thousands of federal wages at the ready. And I can tell you I've never seen anything quite like this in terms of inauguration security. And also we're getting more. Who a solitude to capitol we're getting a sense of just how dangerous situation was we learned today that there. Have chart filed the first. Conspiracy charges in connection with the assault. A man who is dubbed a leader of something called the pope's keepers. He said by federal prosecutors who have led eight man eight to ten men on assault on the capital again that's the first conspiracy charge. And George we also got information today about why the security is being stepped up even more to National Guard members have been removed from the security because of alleged ties to. The malicious all the National Guard being screened for an insider threat thank you Pierre. We're gonna return now to our regular programming the vice president elect is heading to Washington DC now from memorial service. To remember the nearly 400000 Americans who died of coping during this pandemic will be back for that approximate 530 have a good afternoon. This has been a special report from ABC.\nThis transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.}}
{{A self-described organizer for the Proud Boys, an extremist group with ties to white nationalism, was charged Wednesday in connection with the deadly Capitol riots, where federal authorities said Joseph Biggs allegedly encouraged fellow extremists.\nIn court documents, federal prosecutors claimed that Biggs, 37, began urging fellow members in December to join the Jan. 6 demonstration in Washington.\nAlong with Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio, prosecutors allege that Biggs sent multiple messages to associates, including a Dec. 29 communication in which he warned that members would forego their black and yellow colors to blend in with the crowd.\n“Jan. 6th is gonna be epic,” Biggs warned.\nAccording to an FBI affidavit, Biggs was photographed throughout the day of the riot wearing a plaid shirt while video and other evidence allegedly established that the suspect “did aid, abet, counsel, command, induce, or procure others to unlawfully enter the U.S. Capitol by means of destruction of federal property.”\nBiggs and fellow Proud Boys members were photographed on the east side of the Capitol, a location that was “consistent with the directive issued by Biggs,” the FBI affidavit stated.\n“None of the men pictured are wearing Proud Boys colors of black and yellow, but are instead dressed ‘incognito.’"\nBiggs is later photographed inside the Capitol, where the FBI claimed he gained entry as “as a direct result of the destruction of federal property.”\nVideo streamed on the social media site Parler later showed rioters breaching a Capitol entry.\n“One of those individuals, who entered the door within 20 seconds of its opening, is a person that I believe to be Biggs,” and FBI agent stated in the affidavit. “In the video, a voice off camera says, ‘Hey Biggs, what do you gotta say?’ The person depicted…smiles broadly and replies, ‘This is awesome!’ before pulling his gaiter up to cover his face.”\nThe court documents were filed as President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris were sworn into office on the very site where the rioters staged the assault.}}
{{(EPA)\nThe Proud Boys are celebrating their role in the US Capitol insurrection on Wednesday by taking a virtual victory lap on social media.\nThe group - a Southern Poverty Law Center designated hate group that was told to "stand back and stand by" by Donald Trump during a presidential debate earlier this year - posted messages boasting and taking credit for the riot.\n"For several hours, our collective strength had politicians in Washington in absolute terror. The treacherous pawns (cops) were also terrified," a Proud Boy wrote on the group's Telegram social media page.\nOn Parler, another social media platform that welcomes extremists banned from Twitter and Facebook for violating those sites Terms of Service agreements, the Proud Boys openly supported the Capitol insurrection.\n"Doesn't look like they're destroying the capital. Looks like they're liberating it," the group wrote. "God bless America and all her patriots."\nPrior to the rally, the leader of the Proud Boys, Henry "Enrique" Tarrio was arrested for burning a Black Lives Matter sign that was stolen from a church in Washington DC. He was also found in possession of high capacity firearm magazines.\nA DC judge banned Mr Tarrio from entering the District.\nThe group is being sued by the Lawyer's Committee for Civil Rights Under the Law for what it calls a "racist attack on Metropolitan AME church," which "was one of several levied against churches targeted for their support of the Black Lives Matter Movement."\nRep. Matt Gaetz, a Trump loyalist, echoed right-wing conspiracy theories during the Congressional count last night, alleging that the Trump and Confederate-flag waving, largely white, unmasked and vocally supportive group of the president's supporters that stormed the Capitol were actually antifa plants.\nIn addition to that claim being utterly unsubstantiated by facts, the Proud Boys announced their intention to dress in black and wear masks - which is how anti-fascist protesters generally dress at protests - during the 6 January march into Washington DC.\nStory continues\nMr Tarrio wrote on the Proud Boys' Parler feed that the group would be "incognito and we will spread across downtown DC in smaller teams. And who knows ... we might dress in all BLACK for the occassion."\nVideos from the riot show that some of the first individuals to attack the fence and get into fist fights with police were dressed mostly in black.\nRead More\nBarr says Trump committed a ‘betrayal’ of the presidency amid riots\nJoe Scarborough drops F-bomb in heated rant about Capitol riots\nCongressman accuses Capitol Police of being ‘complicit’ in riots\nIntelligence officials warn of what comes next after pro-Trump riots\nWhat is domestic terrorism?\nCapitol riots are ‘worst case scenario’ says cybersecurity expert}}
{{In this image from video, Sen. Roger Marshall, R-Kan., speaks as the Senate reconvenes after protesters stormed into the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021. (Senate Television via AP)\nTOPEKA, Kan. (KSNW) – Kansas Senator Roger Marshall, M.D. issued another statement Thursday regarding the storming of the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday. Supporters of President Donald Trump, following his encouragement, stormed building, disrupting the certification of Joe Biden’s election victory.\nMembers of Congress were forced into hiding, offices were ransacked, and the formal congressional tally of Electoral College votes was halted for more than six hours.\nA coalition of senators and senators-elect have pledged to reject the results.\nMarshall was on a coalition of Republicans who objected to the certification of Trump’s election loss. On early Thursday. lawmakers’ stayed up all night to finish counting the Electoral College vote confirming Democrat Joe Biden won the presidential election.\nMarshall issued this statement.\n“Joe Biden is the President-Elect and we must and will have a peaceful transition of power on January 20th. Anything less is not an option. To be explicitly clear – Joe Biden will be our next President,” said Senator Marshall. “I am sickened and angered by the violence that unfolded at our nation’s Capitol yesterday. To all those who destroyed any chance we had for peaceful discussion and debate on restoring and ensuring confidence in this and all future elections: Your actions were despicable and each of you – the rioters, vandals, and trespassers – should be prosecuted to the fullest extent. I am thankful for our law enforcement officers who worked courageously to restore order at the U.S. Capitol – their heroism is unmatched. America is a resilient nation, and I have no doubt that we will unite and grow stronger after this.”\nPresident Donald Trump says there will be an “orderly transition on January 20th”. Trump says he totally disagrees with the outcome of the election, and claims falsely that the facts bear him out.}}
{{Journalists' Views Of The Pro-Trump Riot On Capitol Hill NPR's Ailsa Chang talks with Lisa Desjardins of the PBS NewsHour and Sarah Ferris of Politico about what it was like to cover the insurrection at the U.S. Capitol and about its consequences.\nJournalists' Views Of The Pro-Trump Riot On Capitol Hill National Journalists' Views Of The Pro-Trump Riot On Capitol Hill Journalists' Views Of The Pro-Trump Riot On Capitol Hill Audio will be available later today. NPR's Ailsa Chang talks with Lisa Desjardins of the PBS NewsHour and Sarah Ferris of Politico about what it was like to cover the insurrection at the U.S. Capitol and about its consequences. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor}}
{{*Here’s the news a lot of people have been waiting for. President-elect Joe Biden will select Judge Merrick Garland as his attorney general nominee, according to a report on Wednesday. ​​\nEven though Sen. Doug Jones (D) of Alabama and former deputy attorney general Sally Yates were previously mentioned as frontrunners, Biden is going with Garland, reports Politico.​​\nG​arland, as most will recall, was nominated by former President Barack Obama in March 2016 as his choice to fill the vacancy on the US Supreme Court following Antonin Scalia’s death.​\nHowever, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell didn’t care and refused to allow his nomination to be considered.\nDeveloping …}}
{{"Everything is destroyed": Eyewitnesses describe scenes in Beirut after explosion\nBy Seán Hickey\nEyewitness accounts from Beirut describe the city as a "warzone" after an explosion in the Lebanese capital this afternoon.\nEarlier today footage from the Lebanese capital showed a huge explosion in the port area which was felt miles from the site.\nJournalist and television producer Ahmad Yassine spoke to Eddie Mair about the disaster, where he said his own car jumped off the ground such was the power of the explosion.\n"Everything flied(sic), glass, cars, many wounded, many dead, it was just horrible" he said. Mr Yassine told Eddie that Lebanon has just lifted its coronavirus lockdown yesterday but it is now likely there will be another lockdown in Beirut.\nReports in Lebanon are stating that "containers of fireworks and nitrate," which were being stored in the port are the root of the explosion but it is not yet clear.\nThe journalist told Eddie that the explosion range "covered the whole of Beirut and its suburbs," and has left the city in rubble.\n"It was like a nuclear explosion but with chemicals," said Mr Yassine.\nFreelance journalist Anchal Vohra told Eddie that Beirut is now in "absolute chaos" and she is seriously injured after getting glass in her neck after her apartment window shattered from the blast.\n"It's an absolute nightmare," she said. "We didn't anticipate this."\nMs Vohra told Eddie that she had just been covering reports of the poverty in Lebanon and now with an event of this magnitude in Beirut, many will struggle to go on.\n"It's absolute mayhem here," she said.}}
{{Valarie Fakhoury, a British granny with her Lebanese child and granddaughter, stand outside the emergency situation ward of a healthcare facility in mainBeirut Janine Haidar/ AFP/Getty Images\nHundreds of people have actually been hospitalized throughout the Lebanese capital and lots of are feared dead in the after-effects of an enormous blast that rocked Beirut, shattering glass and destructive structures miles from the website.\nHospital emergency clinic are being swamped by the injured, with the emergency situation area of one primary healthcare facility– the American University of Beirut Medical Center– not able to get more clients, partially due to blast damage, according to state media.\nThe Lebanese Red Cross, health authorities and political leaders have actually contacted people to contribute blood to assist the injured in healthcare facility.\nImages from the city reveal automobiles, ambulances and military automobiles loaded with the strolling injured and others who appeared not to be moving.\nWhile authorities have yet to reveal a main variety of casualties, numerous members of the emergency situation services and political leaders speaking with regional media have actually revealed concerns that there might be a high death toll.}}
{{Jake Angeli was charged with knowingly entering or remaining in restricted building or grounds without lawful authority, violent entry, and disorderly conduct.\nARIZONA, USA — The Arizona man who was pictured wearing horns and face paint during the storming of the U.S. Capitol has been arrested, according to a press release from the U.S. Attorney's Office.\nJacob Anthony Chansley, also known as Jake Angeli, has been charged in federal court for his involvement in the riots and is in federal custody.\nThe press release said Chansley and two others are now being prosecuted by the attorney's office and investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office and the United States Capitol Police.\nChansley, a resident of Phoenix, was charged with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority, and with violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds, the press release said.\n"It is alleged that Chansley was identified as the man seen in media coverage who entered the Capitol building dressed in horns, a bearskin headdress, red, white and blue face paint, shirtless, and tan pants," the press release said.\n12 News has documented Angeli at numerous rallies, marches and events throughout the past year, ranging from Trump rallies to BLM marches. At these events, he claims to be part of QAnon and is usually shouting about conspiracy theories, with a sign that says "Q Sent Me."\nThe Glendale Union High School District confirms a Jacob Chansley is a graduate of Moon Valley High School. A yearbook shows he was in the Class of 2006.\n12 News tried to reach Angeli's family in Phoenix. One relative told 12 News over the phone that she was not surprised or worried that Angeli appears to be part of the Capitol unrest.}}
{{WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump said U.S. military generals have told him that they think the massive explosion that rocked Beirut on Tuesday, killing more than 70 people, was likely a bomb.\n“I’ve met with some of our great generals and they just seem to feel that this was not some kind of manufacturing explosion type of an event. … They seem to think it was an attack. It was a bomb of some kind.”\nThe explosion flattened much of a port and damaged buildings across the capital, sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. The death toll, which currently stands at more than 70, and more than 3,000 others were injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.\nThe cause of the blast was not immediately known, but initial reports suggested a fire had detonated a warehouse at the port.\nAbbas Ibrahim, chief of Lebanese General Security, said it might have been caused by highly explosive material that was confiscated from a ship some time ago and stored at the port. Local television channel LBC said the material was sodium nitrate. Witnesses reported seeing a strange orange-colored cloud like that which appears when toxic nitrogen dioxide gas is released after an explosion involving nitrates.\nThe explosion came amid ongoing tensions between Israel and the Hezbollah military group on Lebanon’s southern border. Many residents reported hearing planes overhead just before the blast, fueling rumors of an attack, though Israeli military overflights are common. An Israeli government official said Israel “had nothing to do” with the blast. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter with the news media. Israeli officials usually do not comment on “foreign reports.”\nU.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo extended his “deepest condolences” to the people of Beirut and said the United States is closely monitoring the situation. “Our team in Beirut has reported to me the extensive damage to a city and a people that I hold dear, an additional challenge in a time of already deep crisis,” Pompeo said in a written statement.\nThe blast was stunning even for a city that has seen civil war, suicide bombings and bombardment by Israel.\n“It was a real horror show. I haven’t seen anything like that since the days of the (civil) war,” said Marwan Ramadan, who was about 500 meters (yards) from the port and was knocked off his feet by the force of the explosion.\nEmergency teams streamed in from across Lebanon to help, and the injured had to be taken to hospitals outside the capital. Hamad added that hospitals were barely coping and offers of aid were pouring in from Arab states and friends of Lebanon.\nBeirut’s governor, Marwan Abboud, broke into tears as he toured the site, exclaiming, “Beirut is a devastated city.” Prime Minister Hassan Diab vowed that “those responsible will pay.”\nInitially, video taken by residents showed a fire raging at the port, sending up a giant column of smoke, illuminated by flashes of what appeared to be fireworks. Local TV stations reported that a fireworks warehouse was involved. The fire then appeared to spread to a nearby building, triggering a more massive explosion, sending up a mushroom cloud and generating a shock wave.\nOne of Israel’s top bomb experts, Boaz Hayoun, said fireworks could have been a factor setting off the bigger blast. “Before the big explosion, … in the center of the fire, you can see sparks, you can hear sounds like popcorn and you can hear whistles,” said Hayoun, owner of the Tamar Group, which works closely with the Israeli government on safety and certification issues involving explosives. “This is very specific behavior of fireworks.”\nCharbel Haj, who works at the port, said it started as small explosions like firecrackers. Then, he said, he was thrown off his feet by the huge blast. His clothes were torn.\nSome of those injured lay on the ground at the port, Associated Press staff at the scene said. A civil defense official said there were still bodies inside the port, many under debris.\nOutside one hospital, Omar Kinno sat on the pavement, holding back tears. Kinno, a Syrian, said one of his sisters was killed when the blast rocked their apartment near the port, and another sister’s neck was broken. His injured mother and father were taken to a hospital but he didn’t know which, and he was making calls trying to track them down.\n“I have no idea what happened to my parents. I am totally lost,” he said.\nConfusion reigned across the city, as people cleared out of damaged homes or tried to locate family. Motorcyclists picked their way through traffic, carrying the injured.\nOne woman covered in blood from the waist up walked down a trashed street while talking furiously on her phone. On another street, a woman with a bloodied face looked distraught, staggering through traffic with two friends at her side.\n“This country is cursed,” a young man passing by muttered.\nThe blast came at a time when Lebanon’s economy is facing collapse from the financial crisis and the coronavirus restrictions. Many have lost jobs, while the worth of their savings has evaporated as the currency has plunged in value against the dollar. The result has thrown many into poverty.\nSeveral of Beirut’s hospitals were damaged in the blast. Roum Hospital put out a call for people to bring it spare generators to keep its electricity going as it evacuated patients because of heavy damage.\nOutside the St. George University Hospital in Beirut’s Achrafieh neighborhood, people with various injuries arrived in ambulances, in cars and on foot. The explosion had caused major damage inside the building and knocked out the electricity at the hospital. Dozens of injured were being treated on the spot on the street outside, on stretchers and wheelchairs.\n“This is a catastrophe we have on our hands,” said one doctor, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to make press statements.\nThe U.N. peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, UNIFIL, said one of its ships in the port was damaged and a number of its peacekeepers were injured, some seriously.\nIt was reminiscent of massive blasts during Lebanon’s civil war and took place only three days before a U.N.-backed tribunal was set to give its verdict in the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in a truck bombing more than 15 years ago. That explosion, with a ton of explosives, was felt kilometers (miles) away, just like Tuesday’s explosion.\nFrench President Emmanuel Macron said in a tweet that his country was sending aid. Israel offered emergency assistance through international intermediaries, its Foreign Ministry said in a statement. Iran, Hezbollah’s patron, also said it was ready to help. “Stay strong, Lebanon,” its foreign minister, Javad Zarif, said in a tweet.\nThe Associated Press contributed to this report.}}
{{Memorialize the Movement preserves plywood murals used to board up businesses in the wake of George Floyd's death.\nSHOW TRANSCRIPT}}
{{Article content\nBEIRUT — Lebanon’s central bank instructed banks and financial institutions on Thursday to extend exceptional dollar loans at zero interest to individuals and firms impacted by the Beirut port explosion that caused huge damage across the capital.\nTuesday’s blast was the most powerful in years in Lebanon, which is already reeling from an economic meltdown that has seen the Lebanese pound weaken by nearly 80% since last year, due to a lack of dollars, from an official peg of 1,507.5 – a rate now only available for vital imports.\nWe apologize, but this video has failed to load.\ntap here to see other videos from our team. Try refreshing your browser, or Lebanon central bank tells banks to make cheap dollar loans to those hit by Beirut blast Back to video\nBanks have since October frozen people out of their own savings accounts and blocked transfers abroad. Under an April central bank circular, they now pay depositors with dollar accounts in cash in the local currency at a “market rate” well below that of the parallel market.\nThe central bank said the exceptional loans should be made, regardless of customer account limits, to individuals, private businesses, small- and medium-sized enterprises and corporations – with the exception of real estate developers – to carry out essential repairs to homes and businesses.}}
{{Less than 24 hours after President Donald Trump's supporters breached the U.S. Capitol, the commander-in-chief spent the day honoring golfers.\nOn Thursday, Trump awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom - the nation's highest civilian honor - to three golfers, reported the Golf Channel.\nTwo of the recipients, Annika Sorenstam and Gary Player, are retired, while the third, Babe Didrikson Zaharias, died in 1956, and was awarded the medal posthumously.\nThe ceremony took place behind closed doors and the president did not have any events listed on his schedule, following the riot at the Capitol that led to five deaths.\nSCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO\nOn Thursday, President Donald Trump awarded three golfers - Annika Sorenstam, Gary Player and Babe Didrikson Zaharias - the Presidential Medal of Freedom during a closed-door ceremony\nSorenstam and Player, two of the most decorated golfers in history, are retired while Zaharias (pictured), who died in 1956, was awarded the medal posthumously\nOnly four other golfers have ever received the nation's highest civilian honor, including Tiger Woods, Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus and Charlie Sifford. Pictured: Trump gives Woods the Medal of Freedom during a ceremony in the Rose Garden at the White House, May 2019\nThe Presidential Medal of Freedom is only awarded an average of 11 times per year.\nIt recognizes those who have made 'an especially meritorious contribution to the security or national interests of the United States, world peace, cultural or other significant public or private endeavors.'\nIn 2019, Trump awarded the medal to Tiger Woods, who holds numerous golf records and is tied for first for most PGA Tour wins of all time,\nThe only other golfers to have received the award are Arnold Palmer in 2004, Jack Nicklaus in 2005 and Charlie Sifford in 2014.\nPlayer, who hails from South Africa, has won 24 PGA Tour events and 118 international tournaments, according to ESPN.\nSorenstan, who is Swedish, has won 72 LPGA Tours, making her the winningest female golfer, and she has earned the The Associated Press Female Athlete of the Year award three times.\nNo photos from the ceremony have been distributed, but pictures have captured both Player and Sorenstan at the White House on Thursday (above)\nVideo of the reception shows a pianist playing music for guests, many of whom are wearing masks incorrectly or not at all (above)\nIt comes less than 24 hours after Trump's supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol in a riot that led to five deaths. Many have called the timing of the ceremony 'tone deaf.' Pictured" Trump and Sorenstam in 1994, left; and Player and Sorenstam in 2015, right\nMeanwhile, Zaharias - founder of the LPGA - was also an Olympic track and field champion and was a top-ranked golfer upon her death from colon cancer.\nWhile all three have had exceptional careers, many felt that the timing of the awards was poor due to its proximity to the events that took place at the Capitol.\nHundreds - incited by Trump himself - invaded the chambers and office of Senate and House.\nThe riot led to one woman being fatally shot, three dying from medical emergencies and a Capitol Police officer succumbing to injuries from a rioter.\nSome have called for the 25th Amendment to be invoked so Trump can be removed from office while Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi says she plans to impeach Trump a second time.\nNo photos from the ceremony have been distributed, but pictures have captured both Player and Sorenstan at the White House on Thursday.\nAdditionally, video of the reception shows a pianist playing music for guests, many of whom are wearing masks incorrectly or not at all.\nPlayer's son and daughter-in-law, Marc and Claudia, tweeted that they were 'ashamed' and said they wished Player would decline the award\nHundreds took to social media to criticized the golfers for choosing to accept the honors\nPlayer's son Marc tweeted that he wanted his father to reject the medal.\n'I wish my father would simply & politely decline this 'award' at this time. Tone deaf. In denial. Wrong!!' he wrote.\nMarc's wife, Claudia, added that accepting the award was a 'mistake' and added: 'I am ashamed.'\nAdditionally, The Golf Channel's Damon Hack issued a critical statement on Golf Today.\n'I have to say I've been saddened, heartbroken, confused and occasionally angered at the normalization of this President by so many,' he said, according to Golf Monthly.\n'And today's medal ceremony on the day after inciting of a mob by said President, it's just one more reminder of the tone deafness, the convenient comfortable ignorance of many in our game.'}}
{{A man who was photographed sitting behind Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi’s desk during the siege on the U.S. Capitol Wednesday has been arrested, according to multiple reports .\nThe man, identified as Richard Barnett, was arrested in Arkansas, according to the Washington Post, NBC and CBS.\nBarnett faces charges of entering and remaining on restricted grounds, violent entry and theft of public property.\nAfter leaving the Capitol building, Barnett was photographed holding a piece of mail taken from inside Pelosi’s office.\nImages of Barnett sitting behind Pelosi’s desk with his feet propped up was widely shared in the media following the violent breach of the Capitol.\nBREAKING: Richard Barnett, who bragged about sitting in @SpeakerPelosi’s chair - put his feet up - after breaking in to her office, has been arrested. Charges are: entering & remaining on restricted grounds, violent entry, theft of public property. pic.twitter.com/i6Ayil6G5S — David Begnaud (@DavidBegnaud) January 8, 2021\nBarnett told a local media in Arkansas Wednesday night he wrote Pelosi a note and left a quarter on Pelosi’s desk when he took the letter, “cause I’m not a thief.”\nHe told the tv station, 5News, he had been cut in the melee getting into the Capitol and had bled on the letter, and that’s why he took it.\nHe also said he was pushed inside the Capitol by the violent group of pro-Trump protesters, and found Pelosi’s office.}}
{{The people of Beirut, Lebanon are still sorting through the aftermath of massive explosions that rocked the city on Tuesday, killing at least 100 people and injuring another 4,000.\nLebanese General Security Chief Abbas Ibrahim has said the explosions seemed to be triggered by a fire that came in contact with 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate, which had been held at the city’s port for years, by some reporting since 2013. Beirut governor Marwan Aboud estimated that approximately 300,000 people have been rendered homeless.\nLebanon was struggling before this disaster, enduring the dual traumas of a severe economic collapse and the coronavirus pandemic, which has so far resulted in over 5,000 confirmed cases and 65 deaths. The Associated Press reported that the blasts destroyed a major wheat silo at the port of Beirut — the loss of that silo and the port itself has raised concerns that existing food insecurity faced by the Lebanese people may soon be exacerbated.\nThe blasts also come after years of accumulating frustration and outrage that culminated in mass demonstrations last October, during which tens of thousands of protesters spoke out against government corruption and failed leadership while calling for significant reform. Various iterations of those protests have continued ever since.\nFirst responders are continuing to sift through the rubble in search of the lost, injured people are seeking care at hospitals overrun with wounded patients and those with COVID-19 and residents of the city are grappling with what life looks like in the aftermath of this crisis.\nHere’s how you can help.\nOrganizations have been verified to the best of our ability.}}
{{Grammy 2020 Most Searched Nominees (Photo Credits: Instagram)\nNew Delhi [India], May 30 (ANI): Singer Camila Cabello is the recent name to join the growing list of celebrities from the entertainment industry who have come forward to express outrage over the death of George Floyd.\nFloyd, an African-American man, was detained and subsequently died in police custody in Minneapolis on Monday.\nAlso Read | Amitabh Bachchan Says Lockdown Has Taught Him More Than What He Learnt In His 78 Years.\nA bystander video recording showed a cop kneeling on Floyd's neck for at least eight minutes, while Floyd was saying that he could not breathe.\nTaking to Instagram, Cabello wrote: "I've been trying to find the right words to say after I saw the video where George Floyd's life is being taken from him with impunity."\nAlso Read | Lockdown5: Hina Khan Posts A Throwback Bikini-Clad Picture, Says She Wants Her 'Licence To Chill BACKKKKKK'.\n"I am so sorry to George Floyd's family and Ahmaud Arbery's family, And Breonna Taylor's family and to the countless other black families that have their children and parents being taken away from them," the 'Havana' singer noted.\nExpressing solidarity with the people in the fight against injustice, the 23-year-old singer added: "We need a change, we can't afford to be silent, and we can't afford a society that's indifferent to others pain."\nBefore Cabello, many big names from the music industry including Beyonce, and Rihanna took their respective social media handles to address the ongoing racism issues.\nBeyonce, through a video message on Instagram, explained how "broken and disgusted" she feels about the situation, the issue of racism, that is going on in America.\nSinger Rihanna, too, took to Twitter to demand justice, and wrote: "If intentional MURDER is the fit consequence for "drugs" or "resisting arrest"....then what's the fit consequence for MURDER???"\nThe 46-year-old man's death has sparked outrage across the nation and protests in Minneapolis. (ANI)\n(This is an unedited and auto-generated story from Syndicated News feed, LatestLY Staff may not have modified or edited the content body)}}
{{A Texas man has been charged in connection with the violent insurrection at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, which resulted in five deaths and over 100 arrests.\n39-year-old Christopher Ray Grider of Eddy has been charged with violating three U.S. Codes: 18 U.S. Code § 1361 - willful injury or depredation of U.S. property, 18 U.S.C. 1752(a)(1), (b) - knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority and 40 U.S.C. 5104(e)(2) - violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol Grounds.\nDOWNLOAD THE FOX 7 AUSTIN NEWS APP\nSIGN UP FOR FOX 7 AUSTIN EMAIL ALERTS\nA criminal complaint filed in the US District Court for the District of Columbia states that in an interview with a Waco-area television station, Grider admitted to being inside the Capitol building within several feet from where Ashli Babbit was shot outside the Speaker's Lobby.\nAdvertisement\nA screenshot of a video showing Christopher Ray Grider (pictured with yellow scarf) inside the U.S. Capitol. (FBI)\nRELATED: FBI arrests 3 Beverly Hills residents in connection with Capitol riot\nBabbit, a 14-year Air Force veteran from San Diego, was later pronounced dead after being transported to a local hospital in critical condition.\nA screenshot of a video showing Christopher Ray Grider (pictured with yellow scarf) inside the U.S. Capitol. (FBI)\nThe complaint states that Grider said on camera, "The president asked people to come and show their support I feel like it’s the least that we can do, it’s kind of why I came from central Texas all the way to DC." The story also included video introduced and captioned as "Courtesy: Chris Grider" which showed the crowds outside the Capitol and the moments after the shooting.\nRELATED: Feds say charges over stolen Pelosi computer being prepared\nA screenshot of a video showing Christopher Ray Grider (pictured with yellow scarf and red hat and holding a black helmet) inside the U.S. Capitol. (FBI)\nThe complaint says that after the segment aired, law enforcement gathered video from open sources that corroborated that Grider was in the Capitol on Jan. 6, including matching clothing items.\nRELATED: Capitol rioter threatened to shoot his kids if they told FBI about DC trip\nA screenshot of a video showing Christopher Ray Grider (pictured with yellow scarf) inside the U.S. Capitol. (FBI)\nRELATED: Calls for 22 Texas Republicans to resign following Capitol riot\nThe complaint also contains screenshots of Grider moving through the Capitol building to the Speaker's Lobby, and even handing a helmet to a man attempting to break a glass window into the House chambers.\nThe man then used the helmet to break the glass doors that Babbit eventually attempted to jump through before she was shot by an officer on the other side of the door, says the complaint.\nRELATED: Trump campaign members behind Washington rally that spawned deadly Capitol riot, records show\nA screenshot of a video showing Christopher Ray Grider (pictured with yellow scarf) inside the U.S. Capitol. (FBI)\nRELATED: Self-styled militia members charged with conspiracy over alleged coordination in pro-Trump Capitol riot\nAccording to the FBI, he turned himself in Thursday afternoon to the San Antonio FBI at the Austin Resident Agency Office and remains in federal custody at this time. An initial court appearance is scheduled for Friday morning.\nOn Jan. 6, the pro-Trump mob breached the U.S. Capitol building, breaking windows, leveling barriers, scaling walls and violently clashing with police. Rioters took over the presiding officer’s chair in the Senate, the offices of the House speaker, and the Senate dais, where one yelled, "Trump won that election." Five people died as a result of the chaos, including Babbit and Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick.\nCLICK HERE FOR MORE ON THE INSURRECTION AT THE U.S. CAPITOL}}
{{By Jenny Jarvie and Melissa Etehad | Los Angeles Times (TNS)\nATLANTA — It was as if someone had lighted a fuse.\nAlmost as soon as a cellphone video appeared on social media showing a black man struggling to breathe — and finally going silent — with his neck under the knee of a white Minneapolis police officer, black Americans in the city’s Longfellow neighborhood took to the streets calling for justice.\nWithin days, the city was smoldering as protestors started fires and torched stores and a police station. Demonstrations swiftly spread to Los Angeles, where activists blocked a highway, and Atlanta, where protesters set a police vehicle on fire and smashed the windows of the CNN Center.\nWatching it all play out on the news, Christie Peters, a 43-year-old real general contractor in Atlanta, cried for three days straight.\n“It’s just a lot to carry,” she said. “I think it just comes from a place of feeling ineffectual, because what you’re asking black people to do is have faith in a system where almost every position of power in this system is led by people who look like, speak like, vote like the very people who are perpetrating this against us.\n“So how do you have faith in that system?”\nIt did not help that, like many Americans, she had spent the past months cooped up indoors, out of work and on edge amid the COVID-19 pandemic.\n“With 40 million people unemployed, this is a powder keg waiting to explode,” she said. “I feel fatigued every day. I think it’s just mental exhaustion about the unknown future of this country.”\nAmid the anxiousness of living through a pandemic that has disproportionately killed minorities, the death of George Floyd at the hands of police quickly became a symbol of what many say is the nation’s failure to deliver on its promise of equality.\nThe altercation between the 46-year-old Floyd and Minneapolis police was set in motion before sunset Monday, when officers responded to a call from a convenience store south of downtown. An employee at Cup Foods reported that a man had tried to use a counterfeit $20 bill.\nNot long after police officers arrived, Floyd was dead.\nThe video was released hours later. For many, it brought back memories of Eric Garner, an unarmed black man who died in 2014 in New York after police placed him in a chokehold face down on the sidewalk.\nBoth men had cried out the same words: “I can’t breathe.”\n“We keep thinking, ‘How are we here again?'” said Margaret Sullivan, the 32-year-old host of a Minneapolis radio show that highlights marginalized voices.\nSullivan started her “Ms Margaret Live” show on KFAI Radio in March 2016, inspired by the fatal shooting just months before of 24-year-old Jamar Clark in north Minneapolis. Four months later, Philando Castile was shot by a police officer in Falcon Heights, Minn., five minutes from where she lives.\n“We are outraged because Philando should have been the case to stop all of this,” Sullivan said Friday. “So for us, as Minnesotans, to have this happen back-to-back, it’s not new. We have been screaming about this.”\nCarol Anderson, chair of African American Studies at Emory University, said she was struck by the cavalier manner in which the officer pressed his knee into Floyd’s neck.\nAs people screamed at the officer to stop, his message was clear, she said: “‘We can do this to you with impunity.'”\n“We have a nation that consistently criminalized blackness, that has systematically denied the humanity of black people,” Anderson said.\nIn Minneapolis, city leaders, white and black, stressed that protesters were right to be angry.\n“All throughout America and right here in Minneapolis, we feel as if there was a knee on all of our collective necks, a knee that says ‘black life does not matter,'” Andrea Jenkins, the City Council’s vice president, said Thursday. “I am a part of this system to help to take that knee off of our necks.”\nJenkins, who is black, urged the mayor to declare a state of emergency calling racism a public health issue.\n“Till we name this virus, this disease, that has infected America for the past 400 years, we will never ever resolve this issue,” she said.\nThe political tension heightened Friday morning when President Donald Trump took to Twitter to call the protesters “thugs” and threaten to take military action to bring Minneapolis “under control.”\n“When the looting starts, the shooting starts,” Trump tweeted.\nBy the end of Friday, the officer who pinned Floyd down, Derek Chauvin, was arrested and charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter.\n“Third-degree is a Band-Aid” Sullivan said. “It needs to go all the way. We are not letting up because we’ve seen this too many times.”\nThe sense of deja vu was felt by black Americans across the country.\nIn 2013, black activists took to the streets across the nation to protest a Florida jury’s decision that found George Zimmerman not guilty of murdering Trayvon Martin, an unarmed black teenager, in 2012.\nIn 2014, rallies were held for Eric Garner. Then for John Crawford, a 22-year-old black who was shot dead by police in Ohio after he was seen carrying a toy gun. Then for Michael Brown, an unarmed teenager who was killed outside an apartment complex in Ferguson, Mo.\nSullivan described Floyd’s death as a tipping point, coming not just after so many other local cases of police injustice but at a time when the coronavirus has built up anxiety and highlighted the health and economic disparity between blacks and whites.\n“COVID-19 is affecting us at higher rates and job loss too,” she said. “People are barely making it, so we are already at a higher stress. In black culture, when something happens, we all gather, we come together and lean on each other, and we couldn’t do that, so that adds to all that separation, anxiety and stress.”\nAs the virus spread, data began to show that black people were not only feeling the economic impact more, but hospitalized and dying at much higher rates than whites. That data, public health experts said, reflect deep-rooted social and economic inequalities.\nDeRay Mckesson, a Black Lives Matter activist who hosts “Pod Save the People,” said Floyd’s death was an example of Minneapolis’ policy failure.\nUnlike in many other cities, the police department does not ban neck restraints, allowing certain types if the person is actively resisting arrest and more extreme holds — which can render somebody unconscious — if the person is “exhibiting active aggression” or an officer’s life is in danger.\n“These are not isolated incidents,” Mckesson said. “These are the results of a system that was designed to produce these outcomes.”\nAs with most of the high-profile cases of police violence, Floyd’s death became a national story only because it was captured on raw video captured by cellphone, he said.\nMany activists were quick to link Floyd’s death to a long list of recent injustices in states as far afield as Kentucky and Georgia.\nThursday night, seven people were shot in downtown Louisville, Ky., as they protested the death of Breonna Taylor, a 26-year-old emergency medical technician who was shot when the police raided her apartment in March.\nThe gunfire during the protests “came from within the crowd, not from police officers,” said Mayor Greg Fischer.\nEarlier this month, protests erupted in Brunswick, Ga., and then spread across the nation after a video showed a white father and son confront and fatally shoot Ahmaud Arbery, a 25-year-old black man, as he jogged in a Georgia neighborhood. That incident happened in February, but it was not until the video was released and the protests swelled that the white men were arrested and charged with felony murder.\nIn Atlanta, Christie Peters said she didn’t think many white people really understood the level of anxiety she and her husband felt as they watched the video of a grown man being choked by police or read news stories of a woman who’d been shot in her home.\n“I have never committed a crime and I still am terrified,” she said. “That should not be in a place where I pay taxes, where I have every financial and legal responsibility as a citizen, but I don’t have full rights and protections. I don’t see blue-eyed, blond-haired Marcia getting killed in her bed. That doesn’t happen.”\n———\n(Jarvie reported from Atlanta and Etehad from Los Angeles. Chris Megerian contributed to this report.)\n———\n©2020 Los Angeles Times\nVisit the Los Angeles Times at www.latimes.com\nDistributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.\n—————}}
{{Currently Reading\nAlert: US Capitol Police announce security breach inside as lawmakers meet to vote to certify President-elect Biden's victory}}
{{David Bauder\nThe Associated Press\nNEW YORK — Media outlets that appeal to conservatives offered condemnations, explanations and deflections following the U.S. Capitol riot by President Donald Trump's supporters, but little introspection.\nDealing with the shocking breach of the national landmark was a complex task for outlets aimed at Trump's base, many of whom are suspicious of more mainstream news sources. Most were clear: the violence was indefensible.\n"No one should defend it or even attempt to excuse it under the guise of 'hey, this is what you get when people get really mad,' " wrote Mark Davis in a story headlined "A Day of Rage, A Day of Shame" on the Town Hall web site.\nStill, Davis wrote that "the indefensible behavior of the rioters does not erase the righteous grievance of millions of Americans who have lost faith in an election system cast to the winds of political opportunism."\nSimilarly, Fox News Channel's Tucker Carlson said that voting is democracy's pressure relief valve but trouble ensues when people lose faith in the act.\n"Millions of Americans sincerely believe the last election was fake," Carlson said. "You can dismiss them as crazy, you can call them conspiracy theorists, you can kick them off Twitter, but that won't change their minds."\nOpponents would rather silence these people — many of whom have made Carlson television's top-rated political opinion host — than understand them, he said.\n"It's not your fault," he said. "It's their fault."\nThere was little talk, though, about how none of the allegations of widespread voter fraud have been found true. To the contrary, Red State's Mike Ford said it was "not even debatable" that November's presidential election was stolen from President Trump.\nResults were certified in all 50 states, many by Republican officials, without finding major problems, and the president has consistently had his challenges to the election rejected by state and federal courts.\nCarlson's colleague, Sean Hannity, denounced the violence. Like his show has consistently over the past few months, however, he amplified Trump's claims of wrongdoing. Hannity said the vast majority of people who attended Trump's rally in Washington were peaceful. While he talked, the screen flashed a picture of a demonstrator holding a flag that depicted a Rambo-like Trump clutching a rocket launcher.\nWhile Fox's Laura Ingraham said there are legitimate concerns about the election, "if you were a Trump supporter hoping to display your support for the president, well, today's antics at the Capitol did just the opposite."\nFox highlighted its lineup of prime-time opinion stars Wednesday, in contrast to networks like ABC, CBS, NBC, CNN and MSNBC, which focused more on members of Congress speaking about the election certification.\nA number of Fox personalities expressed disgust in the riot's wake, including Stuart Varney, Karl Rove and Geraldo Rivera. "Fox & Friends" host Brian Kilmeade on Thursday said Trump's behavior since the election has been "terrible."\nFox did not make an executive available to talk about the network's approach.\nSeveral figures in conservative media suggested liberal politicians and mainstream media outlets are more outraged when Trump supporters are violent than they were about civil rights demonstrations last summer.\nLeading Newsmax's website for part of Thursday was a story headlined "Media Have Hypocritical Double Standard on Trump vs. BLM Protests."\nTim Graham, director of media analysis at the conservative Media Research Center, objected to that approach in a tweet on Thursday: "This is not a time for calling out double standards. This is a time for standards. Respecting the home of Congress is the lowest possible standard for American civilization."\nAnother popular theme was the suggestion, to date unsubstantiated, that Antifa demonstrators infiltrated the crowd at the Capitol to cause trouble. "Were left-wing provocateurs leading the way into the Capitol?" questioned Thomas Lifson of American Thinker.\nNewsmax has discussed that theory on its website and TV network. But its personalities have been instructed to note that the company has no evidence that Antifa was in any way involved, said Chris Ruddy, the company's CEO.\nIn much the same way that Trump's critics have accused him of inciting Wednesday's riot, media outlets that appeal to conservatives face questions about the impact repeated coverage of the president's election claims have on his fans.\nRuddy said it has been an important issue to cover since it has consumed so much of the president's time.\n"I think our coverage has been fair," he said. "We've been going out of our way to get other sides of this."\nHoward Polskin, whose website "The Righting" follows conservative media, said he's seen no examples of second-guessing following the riot, no questioning about the effect of the attention paid to Trump's unfounded claim that the election was stolen from him.\n"It doesn't seem like a note that they hit," he said.\nMany conservative media figures have sold themselves as truth-tellers and admitting error isn't good for business, said Brian Rosenwald, author of "Talk Radio America" and a scholar in residence at the University of Pennsylvania.\nNeither is bucking a popular president, he said.\n"Introspection and regret would require peeling back the curtain and admitting that in the interest of putting on the best show possible, they often use hyperbolic or ... extreme presentations because they are more gripping or entertaining than nuance," Rosenwald said.\nThe king of talk radio, Rush Limbaugh, on Thursday dismissed demonstrators at the Capitol who "breached the doors and took some selfies," which he depicted as far less violent as civil rights demonstrations last summer.\n"There's a lot of conservatives on social media who say that any violence or aggression at all is unacceptable, regardless of the circumstances," Limbaugh said. "I'm glad Sam Adams, Thomas Paine, the actual Tea Party guys, the men at Lexington and Concord — didn't feel that way."}}
{{(CNN) — One woman was fatally shot by police and three people died of apparent medical emergencies Wednesday when a mob of President Trump’s supporters stormed the US Capitol.\nThe four people died during a stunning attack at the heart of American democracy as members of the mob vandalized the building and assaulted police officers.\nAt least 14 DC Metropolitan Police officers were injured, including one who was hospitalized after suffering serious injuries when he was pulled into a crowd and assaulted, Police Chief Robert Contee said. One officer had significant facial injuries from being struck by a projectile, and another officer was hospitalized after being pepper-sprayed.\nMetro Police made 80 arrests related to unrest this week in downtown DC, including 68 arrests Wednesday night, according to a mayor’s spokeswoman. Most were for violations of the mayor’s 6 p.m. curfew.\nHere’s what we know about the people who died:\nWoman shot by police\nA woman was fatally shot by a US Capitol Police employee as the mob tried to force their way toward the House Chamber where members of Congress were sheltering, US Capitol Police said in a statement.\nThe woman was identified as Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old from Huntington, Maryland, authorities said.\nBabbitt was given medical assistance immediately and taken to a local hospital, where she was pronounced dead.\nThe employee has been placed on administrative leave and their police powers have been suspended pending a joint Metro Police and USCP investigation, USCP said.\n“This is a tragic incident, and I send my condolences to the victim’s family and friends,” Metro Police Chief Contee said.\nTwo people who saw the shooting, left-wing activist John Sullivan and documentary filmmaker Jade Sacker, provided CNN with video of the incident and described the moments beforehand.\nSullivan said rioters were using flag poles and other items to smash glass windows inside the Capitol. The woman then tried to make her way through the window when several people with guns came out through the doorways.\n“The second that she climbed through the window she got shot right in the neck area, fell backwards,” Sullivan said in an interview that broadcast on CNN’s “Anderson Cooper 360.”\n“I just remember the sense of shock and sorrow that somebody just died and did not need to die.”\nThe woman was trying to enter an area that did not yet appear to have been breached by rioters, Sullivan said.\n“It was an area that was completely blocked off,” he said. “They had chairs up against the doorway, tables, so people couldn’t get in.”\nThree others dead\nChief Contee also said three people died from “medical emergencies” during the riot.\n“One adult female and two adult males appear to have suffered from separate medical emergencies, which resulted in their deaths,” he said. “Any loss of life in the District is tragic and our thoughts are with anyone impacted by their loss.”\nContee identified them as a 50-year-old man from Ringtown, Pennsylvania; a 55-year-old man from Athens, Alabama; and a 34-year-old woman from Kennesaw, Georgia.\nThe three were on the grounds of the Capitol when they experienced their medical emergencies, Contee said.\nEarlier Wednesday, DC Fire and Emergency Medical Services transported people to area hospitals with injuries ranging from cardiac arrest to multiple fractures after falling from scaffolding on the West front of the Capitol building.\nHowever, city officials did not say whether any of these people are the ones who died.}}
{{A printing company in Maryland saw the photo on Twitter Wednesday night: an employee roaming the halls of the U.S. Capitol with a company badge around his neck. He was fired the next day.\nOthers are facing similar repercussions at work for their participation in Wednesday's riot at the U.S. Capitol. Some business owners are being trashed on social media and their establishments boycotted, while rank-and-file employees at other businesses have been fired.\nThe printing company, Navistar Direct Marketing, declined to name the worker but said it can’t offer employment to people “demonstrating dangerous conduct that endangers the health and safety of others.”\nMore than 90 people have been arrested since Wednesday when loyalists to outgoing President Donald Trump disrupted lawmakers as they met to confirm the Electoral College results and President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. People on social media have been trying to identify rioters photographed or filmed at the Capitol Wednesday, pressuring companies that employ them to fire them.\nAt a data analytics firm in suburban Chicago, the employee in question was the top boss. Cogensia fired CEO Bradley Rukstales Friday night for his participation in the riot.\n“This decision was made because Rukstales’ actions were inconsistent with the core values of Cogensia," said newly-named acting CEO Joel Schiltz in a statement. "Cogensia condemns what occurred at the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, and we intend to continue to embrace the values of integrity, diversity and transparency in our business operations, and expect all employees to embrace those values as well.”\nRukstales, who was arrested for unlawful entry, tolda local CBS news channel that he had entered the Capitol and apologized for his role in the events. Calls and emails to Rukstales weren’t returned.\nA Cleveland school occupational therapistresigned from the district after her alleged involvement in the riot. A spokeswoman for a fire department near Orlando, Florida said one of its firefighters was being investigated for his participation. Sanford Fire Department firefighter Andy Williams has been placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome, said spokeswoman Bianca Gillett.\nMost private employers can fire workers for attending protests, since First Amendment rights only prohibit people from being punished by the government for their speech, not by a private employer, said Susan Kline, an Indianapolis-based labor and employment attorney at law firm Faegre Drinker.\nThere are some exceptions: Those who work for the government may be more legally protected, and so too are many unionized workers, who typically have a contract listing the reasons for which they could be fired. And some states may have laws that protect workers' free speech.\nBut “what people did at the Capitol Wednesday was rioting, not protesting,” said Aaron Holt, a labor and employment attorney with law firm Cozen O’Connor. “When someone violates the law, that’s almost never going to be protected, and a private employer is going to be within their rights to discipline or take some kind of action in response to that that might go against their fundamental core values.”\nSmall businesses are also facing backlash on online review sites such as Yelp, which flagged at least 20 businesses for unusual review activity related to Wednesday’s rioting.\nOne business, Becky’s Flowers in Midland, Texas, is owned by Jenny Cudd, a former mayoral candidate who posted a video on Facebook bragging about breaking into House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office. By Friday, Cudd’s flower shop was flooded with dozens of one-star reviews in which she was called a traitor and domestic terrorist, along with photos of her inside the Capitol.\nCudd later said in a video message to The Associated Press that she didn’t personally go into Pelosi’s office or see people break down the door, and that when she said “we,” she meant all of the people who were at the Capitol. She said she didn’t do anything violent or destroy any property.\n“I walked through an open door into the Capitol along with several hundred other people,” Cudd said.\nShe added that she had “received several death threats along with thousands of one-star reviews from across the country of people who have never frequented my business."\nYelp has flagged businesses for unusual review activity following less egregious but still controversial events. Reviewers raged on the Yelp page of Virginia restaurant The Red Hen afterit booted former White House press secretary Sarah Sanders from its establishment a few years ago. And commenters from the left and right bombarded Big Apple Pizza’s Yelp page with political beliefs after former President Barack Obama was enthusiastically hugged by a customer there.\nSocial media has outed people for their involvement in activities outside of the workplace, landing them in trouble with their employers. In 2017 after a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, many posted photos on social media of those who participated, leading in some cases to their firing.\nIn Louisiana, customers said they would boycott supermarket chain Rouses Market after retired owner Donald Rouse was shown in a photo at Wednesday's riot. Rouse said in an email statement that he attended the rally as a supporter of the president but left before the violence began.\n“I’m horrified by the violence and destruction we saw yesterday and the pain it has caused so many,” Rouse said. “Our country desperately needs to come together to heal, and I will do everything I can to be a part of that process.”\nThe Krewe of Red Beans, a group which organizes parades, posted on Instagram that it would return $20,000 in donations it received from the market.\n___\nAssociated Press Writers Don Babwin in Chicago and Jake Bleiberg in Dallas and investigative researcher Randy Herschaft in New York contributed to this report.}}
{{Treat yourself to current Conservative News and Commentary conveniently delivered all in one site, right to your computer doorstep.\nNotice: JavaScript is required for this content.}}
{{The NYPD embedded at least one undercover informant among protesters demonstrating against police violence in the wake of George Floyd’s death, a newly unsealed court filing reveals.\nThe disclosure was buried in an FBI affidavit in the case of Jeremy Trapp, 24, who was arrested by the NYPD on July 17, after he allegedly attempted to cut the brake lines on an NYPD van parked in Brooklyn. Unnamed police sources told the New York Daily News at the time that Trapp was part of Occupy City Hall, a group calling for the NYPD to be defunded.\nAt the time of Trapp’s arrest, authorities said only that cops apprehended him as he emerged from underneath a marked police van. But the affidavit unsealed in Brooklyn federal court this week shows that Trapp had in fact been the subject of a days-long surveillance operation, initiated by a confidential informant being paid by the NYPD.\nThe filing sheds new light on the often controversial tactics that police are using to monitor protests organized after the May 25 killing of Floyd, an unarmed Black man, by a Minneapolis cop.\nAn analysis by the Brennan Center for Justice at the NYU School of Law found “solid evidence” that departments have infiltrated the nationwide demonstrations—something it says can only serve to further harm the already-damaged relationship between the police and the citizenry. In North Dakota, an officer posed as a protester while taking pictures of activists and yelling, “Fuck the police.” In New Jersey, undercover cops dressed up as Hasidic Jews to observe a rally against racism and police brutality. And in Texas, plainclothes officers have been circulating at protests “to identify criminals.” Protesters have been mostly peaceful, with white supremacists and “opportunists” being largely blamed for any violence that has erupted.\nMichael German, a former FBI agent who is now a fellow with the Brennan Center’s Liberty & National Security Program, where he focuses on privacy and civil liberties issues, sees the use of police informants at protests as “a suppressive act that violates the free exercise of rights guaranteed by the First Amendment.”\n“People coming out to express grievances against the government shouldn't have to worry that a government agent pretending to be their ally is actually a spy,” German told The Daily Beast.\nOn July 13, Trapp attended a demonstration outside the Brooklyn Criminal Court building, says the affidavit. There, he met “an individual who was a confidential source for the NYPD,” describing the source as a “paid informant.” Trapp allegedly told the informant that he wished to “harm police officers and their supporters” and that he “wanted to cut the brake lines on police cars.”\n“Trapp and the [informant] exchanged telephone numbers so that they could contact each other in the future,” according to the affidavit.\nThe two stayed in touch, and arranged to meet up again the night of July 15. The informant drove to Trapp’s home in Brooklyn and picked him up, recording their conversation as they drove around. During the next few hours, Trapp allegedly told the informant that he wanted to burn down the Verrazzano-Narrows bridge, which connects Staten Island to Brooklyn, so that “white supremacists” wouldn’t be able to get to Brooklyn.\nDuring the ride, which extended into the wee hours of the morning, Trapp “reiterated to the [informant] that he wanted to harm police officers,” according to the feds, and that the best way to do this would be to “cut their brakes off.” After searching for an unattended police car but coming up empty, the informant drove Trapp home. They talked about meeting up later at a protest that was happening in Bay Ridge. However, Trapp said he saw the demonstrations as “too non-violent,” and that they “were not accomplishing anything,” according to the affidavit. Instead, Trapp decided to “cut the brake lines on police cars,” it says.\nThe next day, the confidential informant once again picked up Trapp in his car. NYPD officers tailed the vehicle, as the informant recorded their conversation with Trapp. According to the affidavit, Trapp showed the informant his backpack, which reportedly contained a “scissor-like tool that could be used to sever a vehicle’s brake lines.”\nThe surveillance team watched as Trapp and the informant approached a marked NYPD van parked in the Sunset Park area of Brooklyn. The informant stood nearby, pretending to be Trapp’s “lookout,” while Trapp crawled underneath the vehicle in an alleged attempt to disable the brakes. It was all captured on video by both the surveillance team and the informant.\nTrapp, still unaware that he was on the wrong side of a sting operation, got back into the informant’s car and “expressed excitement...about having severed the brake line on the NYPD Van and stated that he wanted to do the same to more police cars,” says the affidavit. They never did. Instead, Trapp and the informant met up with a group of protesters at City Hall, then drove home to Brooklyn. The police kept the car in their sights, arresting Trapp shortly after arriving back in the borough.\nAs it turns out, Trapp cut the wrong wire underneath the NYPD van. Rather than sabotaging the brake line, he mistakenly damaged a wheel speed sensor line that looked similar.\nThe NYPD referred a request for comment to the federal prosecutors in Brooklyn, who did not immediately respond.\nNew York City police reform activist Robert Gangi, who ran for mayor in 2017, has mixed feelings about the case.\n“On one hand, I’m not pleased that they’ve had undercover informants at protests,” Gangi told The Daily Beast. “But I’m pleased that they caught this guy. If the case that they present is true, they stopped a potentially terrible thing from happening.”\nHowever, German of the Brennan Center finds certain details in the affidavit to be highly problematic, noting that there is a long history of informants acting “not as listening posts but as agents provocateur, which is particularly problematic when agents are sent into groups protesting police abuse.”\nFederal agents are under great pressure from the White House and the attorney general to bring protest-related indictments, German added, “which shouldn't be a reason to spend resources intended to address serious federal crimes to manufacture a violation that could have been more effectively handled at the local level.”\nTrapp is now facing federal charges of “destroying a motor vehicle” with a “reckless disregard for human life.” He does not yet have a lawyer listed in court filings.}}
{{Air Force Vet Admits He Stormed Senate Chamber With Zip Ties\n‘I KNOW IT LOOKS MENACING’\nRetired Lieutenant Colonel Larry Rendall Brock Jr.’s family said he holds white supremacist views.}}
{{MINNEAPOLIS, Minnesota (AP) — A Minneapolis police officer was swiftly fired and charged with murder after bystander video showed him pressing his knee into George Floyd's neck, ignoring the black man's cries that he couldn't breathe. But even with that powerful footage, legal experts say the case isn't a slam dunk.\nJury selection begins today in Derek Chauvin's trial, which is expected to come down to two key questions: Did Chauvin's actions cause Floyd's death, and were his actions reasonable?\n“It's hard not to watch the video and conclude that the prosecutors will not have any trouble with this case,” said Susan Gaertner, the former head prosecutor in neighbouring Ramsey County. “But it's not that simple.”\nFloyd was declared dead May 25 after Chauvin, who is white, pressed his knee against Floyd's neck for about nine minutes, holding his position even after Floyd went limp as he was handcuffed and lying on his stomach. Floyd's death sparked sometimes violent protests in Minneapolis and beyond, and led to a nationwide reckoning on race.\nChauvin is charged with second-degree unintentional murder and second-degree manslaughter, and a panel of appeals court judges ruled Friday that the judge must consider reinstating a third-degree murder charge that he dismissed last fall. Three other officers, all of whom also were fired, face trial in August on charges of aiding and abetting the second-degree murder and manslaughter counts.\nThe second-degree murder charge requires prosecutors to prove Chauvin caused Floyd's death while committing or trying to commit a felony — in this case, third-degree assault. The manslaughter charge has a lower bar, requiring proof that Chauvin caused Floyd's death through negligence that created an unreasonable risk, and consciously took the chance of causing severe injury or death.\nExactly how Floyd died is shaping up as a major flashpoint of the trial.\nChauvin's attorney, Eric Nelson, argues in court documents that Floyd likely died from fentanyl he consumed, or a combination of fentanyl, methamphetamine and underlying health conditions — not as a result of Chauvin's knee on his neck.\nBut Hennepin County Judge Peter Cahill wrote last fall that for the second-degree murder charge, prosecutors don't have to prove that Chauvin was the sole cause of Floyd's death — only that his conduct was a “substantial causal factor”.\nStill, defence attorneys who aren't connected to the case say all Nelson has to do is raise reasonable doubt in a single juror's mind.\n“Although he had him pinned under his knee and he's yelling 'I can't breathe! I can't breathe!' there's an argument that (Chauvin) wasn't exerting pressure and his inability to breathe was due to the drugs in his system or something to that effect, or his anxiety,” said F Clayton Tyler, a prominent local defence attorney.\nDefence attorneys say it also may not be easy to establish that Chauvin was committing the felony of assault — as required for the second-degree murder charge in this case. That's because Chauvin is authorised to use force as a police officer, and his attorneys will argue that his use of force against Floyd was reasonable.\nGaertner said the defence will face a challenge of trying to move the jury's focus off of the video and the strong emotion it generates. They'll instead try to focus on the medical evidence and Floyd's underlying conditions while trying to portray the circumstances of the arrest as “justifiable consistent with police norms,” she said.}}
{{has removed several videos that US President has posted on his channel and warned that any channel found to be posting three times within 90 days with false claims on US election results will be permanently removed from the Google-owned video platform.\nThe move comes in the wake of the unprecedented storming of the by Trump's supporters on Wednesday and thus disrupting the constitutional process of counting and certification of the Electoral College votes of the presidential elections. Four people, including a woman, died in the clashes between protesters and police.\n“Over the last month, we've removed thousands of videos which spread misinformation claiming widespread voter fraud changed the result of the 2020 election, including several videos that President Trump posted on Wednesday to his channel,” Google said in a statement.\n“Due to the disturbing events that transpired on Wednesday, and given that the election results have been certified, any channel posting new videos with these false claims in violation of our policies will now receive a strike, a penalty which temporarily restricts uploading or live-streaming,” it said.\nALSO READ: Chaos, violence, mockery as pro-Trump mob occupies US Capitol, 4 dead\n“Channels that receive three strikes in the same 90-day period will be permanently removed from YouTube,” Google said in its statement.\nTrump's channel has 2.68 million subscribers. Following the violence that erupted at the after his supporters stormed the building, has removed most of his videos from the rally he addressed earlier in the day.\nYouTube believes that those videos alleging widespread fraud in the 2020 elections violated its policies.\nYouTube said that grace period was supposed to expire on January 21, after Inauguration Day. But since the election results have been certified, after a pro-Trump mob stormed the Capitol, the Google -owned video platform says it's ending the grace period now.\nEarlier, founder said that President Donald Trump's accounts on its popular platforms - and Instagram - would remain suspended until the inauguration of President-elect on January 20.\nAnnouncing the decision, Zuckerberg said the risk of allowing President Trump to continue to use the platform during this period is "simply too great." This is for the first time probably that has taken such an extreme step to ban and block the handles of a head of the State and that too of the United States.\nOn Wednesday, Twitter also blocked Trump's account for 12 hours and removed three of his tweets including a video.}}
{{On Tuesday, a massive blast wave in Beirut, Lebanon's capital, killed at least 135 people and wounded 5,000 others.\nThe impact of the devastating explosion is ongoing: More than 300,000 people's homes were damaged in the explosion, and hundreds have been reported missing, which people fear could raise the death count. The president has called for a two-week state of emergency.\nThe explosion's exact cause is currently undetermined, but Lebanese officials are pointing to the storage of 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate, a highly explosive fertilizer, which was kept without safety precautions in the port of Beirut for years. Investigators are looking into possible negligence concerning the ammonium nitrate's storage. There's evidence that Lebanese officials knew about the danger, yet failed to properly act.\nNow, anger with the ruling elite in Lebanon is boiling over into calls for revolution.\nEven before the blast, economic collapse, due to decades of mismanagement and corruption, was threatening the livelihood of people in Lebanon. In the months prior, the Lebanese pound had dropped to record lows.\nAmid the country's economic collapse, the price of basic necessities skyrocketed, exacerbating hunger for many in Lebanon. All of this was coupled with a recent escalation in COVID-19 cases, and hospitals are now packed with victims of the explosion.\nIn short: Those in Beirut (and Lebanon as whole) desperately need help right now.\nCharity Navigator, the charity ranking site, has compiled the following list of three organizations to support in the wake of the explosion. We've included some of our own picks as well. We'll continue to update this list as the list of organizations continues to grow.\nCHARITY NAVIGATOR'S PICKS\nGlobalGiving\nGlobalGiving is a global crowdfunding community that helps nonprofits around the world fundraise.\nGlobalGiving is hosting a Beirut Port Explosion Relief Fund for the Union of Relief and Development Associations, a Lebanese human rights organization, which you can donate to here.\nInternational Medical Corps\nInternational Medical Corps is a global humanitarian aid organization that provides emergency medical services, as well as training, relief, and development programs for those in need.\nHospitals are now overwhelmed in Beirut, and the International Medical Corps is on the ground providing assistance and supplies. You can donate to the International Medical Corps here. A spokesperson for the International Medical Corps told Mashable via email that donations sent here will go directly towards IMC's response in Beirut.\nPreemptive Love\nPreemptive Love is an organization that provides relief, jobs, and community to those on the frontlines in conflict zones.\nPreemptive Love is currently on the ground in Beirut providing emergency relief to families impacted by the blast. You can donate directly to Preemptive Love's Beirut relief effort here.\nADDITIONAL ON-THE-GROUND EFFORTS\nIn addition to Charity Navigator's picks, there are other organizations directly involved with relief efforts in Beirut that Mashable selected because of their direct involvement with the needs of those impacted.\nImpact Lebanon\nImpact Lebanon is an organization intended to make activism and volunteering available to the Lebanese diaspora.\nThe organization has a Beirut disaster relief fund, found here, through which it will be coordinating with non-governmental organizations who need help. Impact Lebanon says it will update the page with exact details on where money is going as it works with NGOs.\nImpact Lebanon is also raising money for people whose homes were lost in the explosion, which you can donate to here.\nLebanese Red Cross\nThe Lebanese Red Cross, an independent disaster relief organization, is the main provider of ambulances on Lebanon. After the blast, the organization set up triage and first aid stations, and dispatched ambulances to help those impacted.\nYou can donate to their efforts here.\nLebanese Food Bank\nWith food insecurity already prevalent because of the increase in food prices, the need for increased access to food remains in the wake of the explosion, which destroyed Lebanon's primary grain silo.\nThe Lebanese Food Bank collects and distributes food to those in need in Lebanon. You can donate here.\nSave the Children\nSave the Children is an organization that works to provide education, health care, protection, and emergency relief to kids around the world.\nIn response to the explosion, Save the Children launched the Lebanon Children's Relief Fund, accessible here, which will fund "the urgent needs" of children and families. (Save the Children has field workers on the ground in Lebanon.)\nUNICEF\nUNICEF (the United Nations Children's Fund) is an agency within the United Nations that protects children's lives and rights through humanitarian aid.\nUNICEF staff are on the ground in Beirut, where they're providing medical and vaccine supplies, as well as water to rescue workers and psycho-social support to children.\nYou can donate to UNICEF's response in Lebanon here, and you can designate funds to "Lebanon Emergency."}}
{{Following yesterday’s explosion at Beirut Port, which has left thousands injured and caused widespread destruction, the UK has today announced a package of emergency support to Lebanon.\nThe UK has offered to immediately deploy search and rescue experts with specially trained dogs to help find those caught up in the blast.\nFollowing a call between the Hassan Diab, Prime Minister of Lebanon and the Foreign Secretary, Dominic Raab, the UK has made up to £5 million in emergency humanitarian funding available to help people made homeless by the disaster.\nThe UK has also offered enhanced support to the Lebanese Armed Forces, who are central to the Government of Lebanon’s response, including tailored medical help, strategic air transport assistance, and engineering and communications support.\nThe UK has also offered to send an EMT advance clinical advisory team who could provide initial assessment and coordination with search and rescue teams. UK International Emergency Medical Teams (EMT) offer a rapid provision of internationally accredited public health, medical and surgical teams including both NHS and non NHS experts.\nForeign Secretary Dominic Raab said:\nThis was a devastating explosion which has caused enormous suffering and damage. The UK is a long-standing friend of Lebanon and the Lebanese people, and will stand with them in their hour of need. We have offered immediate direct support including search and rescue, emergency medical assistance and up to £5m in humanitarian aid.\nInternational Development Secretary Anne-Marie Trevelyan said:\nWe have all been shocked by the scenes of devastation and suffering in Beirut. My heart goes out to all those who have been affected by this tragedy and who have lost loved ones. The UK stands ready to support the people of Lebanon in their time of need and has offered to send medics and rescue workers to treat those who have been injured.\nThe damage caused by the blast, which measured 4.5 on the Richter scale and was felt as far away as Cyprus (150 miles from Beirut), is widespread and likely to have long-lasting consequences. Lebanon was already experiencing a major economic crisis and dealing with the coronavirus pandemic, as well as hosting over 1.5 million refugees from the war in neighbouring Syria.\nThe UK already works closely with Lebanon and this partnership is focused on managing the humanitarian, stability and security implications of the war in Syria.\nSince the start of the Syria Crisis, DFID has allocated just under £700 million in humanitarian and development funding to Lebanon, including providing support for sanitation facilities, education for refugees and helped provide jobs for both Lebanese and Syrian communities.\nFurther Information}}
{{Note: We've recently updated our online systems. If you can't login please try resetting your password. You must login with an email address. If you don't have an email associated with your account email circulation2@journalnet.com for help creating one.}}
{{Despite years of war Beirut was shaken by a blast the likes of which it had never seen and as many residents and victims woke it was to homes under rubble and a city destroyed.\nThe devastation from the explosion in port warehouses storing ammonium nitrate was the most powerful ever to rip through the capital, killing more than 135 people, injuring 4,000 more and tearing the facades off buildings.\nOn Wednesday the reality began to set in. Beirut's Governor said up to 250,000 people may have been left homeless — the displacement led to solidarity and kindness as hundreds of Lebanese people in neighbouring towns offered shelter to strangers.\nWarning this story contains graphic images.\nThe explosion flattened much of the city's port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. ( AP: Hussein Malla )\n'We lost everything'\nLebanese-Australian, Omar Jheri, 41, who moved to Lebanon from Sydney four years ago, said he was just 500 metres away from where the explosion happened.\nHe lost his house, his business and two of his close friends in a matter of seconds.\n"I'm just grateful to be alive to honest," he told the ABC.\nA day later he woke find what was left of his coffee shop completely destroyed.\n"I haven't slept, we were not able to sleep last night."\nMr Jheri says everybody was bleeding and dead bodies covered the streets. ( Supplied: Omar Jheri )\nHis house was so badly damaged by the explosion that he and his wife have had to move in with his parents in the country's north-west — far away from the capital and its haunting views.\n'We lost everything. We lost the business, my wife's business, the house. It's really tough times."\nCovered in bruises and very badly injured from the blast, Mr Jheri has to have surgery on his wrist tomorrow, while nursing a broken arm, stiches on several parts of his body and a head wound.\nMr Jheri remembered walking barefoot, while in shock moments after the blast, stepping on piles of shattered glass as he tried to get to the nearest shelter.\nMr Jheri's shop was severely damaged and unable to reopen. ( Supplied: Omar Jheri )\n"We couldn't see anything, it was dusty. The magnitude of the explosion was unbelievable. When we walked out on the streets and it was... I couldn't describe it," he said.\n"Everybody was bleeding, there were dead bodies on the streets."\nOn Wednesday he received the devastating news that one of his close friends, who had been missing since the explosion, was among the bodies found in the clean up.\n"It's very sad. [That] could have been any one of us. I'm so grateful that I'm still alive," he said.\n'It felt like the end of the world'\nMassive explosions rocked downtown Beirut, with witnesses saying they saw many people injured by flying glass and debris. ( AP: Hussein Malla )\nLike, Mr Jheri, Pierre Brakhia, was in total shock when the explosion hit.\nHe was sitting at home eating dinner when he suddenly felt his house shake. His cats and birds began to react and seconds later a massive explosion erupted.\nThat's when he knew something was really wrong. "It felt like the end of the world," he said.\nLess than 3 kilometres from Beirut port, Mr Brakhia rushed to his rooftop to see what had happened. ( Supplied: Pierre Brakhia )\nHis sister called to see if he was okay and said she saw a huge orange cloud that appeared to engulf his home.\nLess than 3 kilometres from Beirut port, he rushed to his rooftop to see what had happened.\nHe saw smoke covering the sky and his neighbours' windows and front doors completely shattered.\nHospitals struggling to cope with demand\nHospitals in Beirut were also badly damaged during the blast, which also hit a warehouse that housed some of the country's medical supplies.\nThe American University of Beirut Medical Centre (AUBMC) was severely damaged during the explosion and patients had to be transferred. ( Supplied: Diana Hatoum )\nHospital staff and doctors have found it hard to cope with demand at Rafic Hariri Hospital in Beirut.\nDr Diana Hatoum said the hospital had already been struggling to cope with coronavirus patients and now had the added stress of taking care of patients that were transferred from other hospitals that were totally destroyed.\nThe American University of Beirut Medical Centre (AUBMC) was severely damaged during the explosion and the patients were transferred over.\n"My friend who was working at AUBMC hospital at the time flew out the window and landed on glass on her knees. It's a total disaster," a secretary who works at AUBMC told the ABC.\n"Doors flew off hinges, the bathroom tiles, the toilet seats, they've all been blown off."\nThe Rafic Hariri Hospital building was also damaged many doctors were not able to make it to the hospital.\nThere were warnings over the years that a huge stockpile of ammonium nitrate was dangerous. ( AP: Hassan Ammar )\n"Some of the [staff] lost their houses, and many staff couldn't work. I came and worked the shifts for them," Dr Hatoum said.\n'Time to grieve'\nWhile there was no evidence the explosion was an attack, Lebanon has been crippled in recent times due to poor governance and alleged corruption.\nAs a business owner suffering from an already crippling economy in Lebanon, Mr Jheri's coffee shop, which was located in a popular part of Beirut was already struggling.\nHe said the Government was to blame for the country's economic downturn and that he plans to eventually leave Lebanon to start again elsewhere.\n"We have a lot to offer as a country, we're so resilient, we are strong, we deserve more as a country. We just need that chance," Mr Jheri said.\nInvestigators have begun to search the wreckage for clues to the cause of the explosion. ( AP: Hassan Ammar )\nLebanon's President, Michel Aoun said on Wednesday (local time) it was "time to grieve" for the country.\nAt a cabinet meeting, he asked for a minute of silence to commemorate those who were killed.\n"The shock has overwhelmed the spirits of all the Lebanese people that I call today to unite and bond together," he said.\nLebanese Prime Minister Diab insisted he would make the investigation a priority.\nInvestigators have begun to search the wreckage for clues to the cause of the massive explosion as the Government ordered port officials put under house arrest.\nThe investigation will focus on how 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate, a highly explosive chemical used in fertilizers, came to be stored at the facility for six years, and why nothing was done about it.}}
{{By PTI\nNEW YORK: The riotous mob that laid siege to the US Capitol on Wednesday was the product of the destructive forces that President Donald Trump has been stirring for years, culminating in the disruption of a democratic ritual that would formally end his unconstitutional bid to stay in power.\nThe scene that unfolded, pushing through police barricades, breaking windows, then occupying seats of power, was one that Americans are accustomed to watching in distant lands with authoritarian regimes.\nBut the violence, which included gunshots fired in the Capitol, one death, and an armed occupation of the Senate floor, was born from the man who swore an oath to protect the very democratic traditions that rioters tried to undo in his name.\nThe rioters chose to storm the Capitol, a building symbolic as a citadel of democracy, and stirred echoes of the the angst and blood of the Civil War era.\nALSO READ | US Capitol violence in 10 pictures: When pro-Trump mob stormed the building to overturn election\nOnly this time it was instigated by a duly elected president unwilling to honour the foundational creed of a peaceful transfer of power.\n"This is an attempted coup détat incited by the President of the United States," said presidential historian Michael Beschloss.\n"We are in an unprecedented moment when a president who is willing to conspire with mobs to bring down his own government. This is totally against the idea of democracy for which the nation has stood for over two centuries."\nThe certification of the Electoral College votes that formalizes President-elect Joe Biden's victory, a Constitutionally-enshrined ceremony typically designed to show American democracy's strength, was disrupted within hours of Trumps incendiary demand for action in a speech to his supporters, as he implored them to "fight" to stop the "steal" of the election and march on the Capitol.\n"After this, were going to walk down and Ill be there with you were going to walk down, were going to walk down to the Capitol," Trump said, "and were going to cheer on our brave senators and congressmen and women, and were probably not going to be cheering so much for some of them."\nAs his presidency enters its final days, Trump's speech was a valedictory that seethed with anger, and roused those who took it as a call to insurrection.\nRioters overran and overmatched Capitol security forces, breaking windows, stealing mementos and mocking the institution with photos showing them in seats of power.\nOne in the mob seized House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's dais, another her office.\nA sea of red "Make America Great Again" hats stormed through Statuary Hall, a part of the Capitol familiar to tourists.\nOne man carried a Confederate flag under the same rotunda where Abraham Lincoln, and, just last year, the congressman and civil rights hero John Lewis, had laid in state.\nA noose was photographed not far from the Capitols west front.\nAnd the inauguration stand where Biden will put his hand on a Bible in two weeks was used by U.S. Capitol Police to fire pepper spray into the violent crowd.\nFew escaped Trump's rage, not even his most loyal lieutenant, Vice President Mike Pence who had, for once, said he could not honour the presidents wishes that he overturn the electoral vote count because there was no legal authority for him to do so.\nAt his rally on the Ellipse, Trump said he would be "very disappointed" in his vice president, who a short time later had to be whisked to safety by Secret Service when the Capitols barriers were breached.\nBut the groundwork for the violence was laid far before the rally, which also included a call from the presidents personal attorney, Rudy Giuliani, for a "trial by combat" to settle accusations of election fraud.\nTrump, who has long shied away from committing to a peaceful transfer of power, spent the better part of 2020 declaring that the election was "rigged" while making baseless accusations of widespread voter fraud that numerous federal courts and his former attorney general said did not exist.\nThe president was enabled by dozens of his fellow Republicans, who said they were willing to object to the count, a maneuver they knew would delay but not change the outcome.\nEven when it became clear he had lost the election, Trump refused to acknowledge reality, insisting repeatedly that he had won in a landslide.\nHis lost to Biden by seven million voters.\nBut his supporters were more than willing to accept his effort to subvert the verdict of voters.\nJust weeks ago, he tweeted "Big protest in DC on January 6th. Be there, will be wild!" And even after siege began, and members of his own party, including some trapped in the Capitol and hiding for their lives, begged him to forcibly condemn the act of domestic terrorism, Trump refused.}}
{{A video of a bride posing on her wedding day captured the moment an explosion ripped through Beirut on Tuesday.\nIn the video, Dr. Israa Seblani is smiling in her wedding gown before a blast throws her backward.\nThe camera captures the buildings in the square before and after they were damaged in the blast.\nVisit Insider's homepage for more stories.\nA video taken of a bride posing in her wedding dress Tuesday captures the moment a devastating explosion tore through the city of Beirut, Lebanon, Reuters reported.\nDr. Israa Seblani was seen posing in her white floor-length gown as a camera panned her dress and the square where she was standing.\nWithin seconds, the explosion can be heard and then seen as Seblani and her bouquet are blown backward.\nThe bride is led away and the camera held by Mahmoud Nakib shows buildings in the square that had been damaged in the explosion, according to Reuters, which obtained the video.\nThe explosion left at least 100 people dead and injured more than 4,000.\nLebanese Prime Minister Hassan Diab said the blast was caused by the ignition of more than 2,750 metric tons of ammonium nitrate stored insecurely at a warehouse, but the exact cause of the blast is under investigation.\nA search for survivors continues Wednesday.}}
{{Following the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis, protests have taken place across the country. There have also been reports of riots in Atlanta, New York City, Colorado and Kansas. Vice President Mike Pence took to Twitter recently to call for "peaceful protests" and said that he and President Donald Trump will always stand for this right. However, Twitter users responded by referencing Pence prematurely leaving an NFL game after the national anthem.\nIn October 2017, Pence attended a game between the San Francisco 49ers and the Indianapolis Colts. However, he left shortly after the national anthem due to several members of the 49ers kneeling as part of a peaceful protest. Pence later released a statement saying that he and Trump would not dignify any event that "disrespects our soldiers, our Flag, or our National Anthem." Trump also said that he asked Pence to leave the stadium if any players kneeled.\nWith this NFL moment serving as a backdrop, Twitter users responded to the vice president. Many wrote that he does not approve of peaceful protests while others referred to him as "a clown." The vast majority simply referenced the time he walked out of the football game.}}
{{“Trying these officers together will give the jury a complete picture of what happened on the day that George was murdered,” Crump said. “The judge’s decision to keep the trial in Minneapolis is the right one. We never see Black defendants get a change of venue to increase the fairness of their trials, and the White officers involved in the death of George Floyd should rightly face a jury of their peers in the city where this tragedy took place.”}}
{{President-elect Joe Biden will nominate Democratic Boston Mayor Marty Walsh to lead the Labor Department, Politico reported Thursday.\nJoe Biden reportedly chose Mayor Marty Walsh after considering Democratic Rep. Andy Levin, former Deputy Labor Secretary Seth Harris and California Labor Secretary Julie Su, four sources told Politico. Biden also chose Walsh despite calls for him to fill the position with a minority and despite his own hesitation with nominating a white labor secretary.\nBiden, who had heavy union backing during the campaign, has a close relationship with Walsh, a former union member and leader, Politico previously reported.\nWalsh first joined a labor union, Laborers, Local 223, in 1988 and worked his way up to eventually being elected president of the union in 2005, according to The Boston Globe. In 2011, he was selected to lead the Building Trades Council, which represents 35,000 ironworkers, pipefitters, and other laborers.\nWalsh also earned a reputation for using strong-arm tactics to get his way, The Globe reported. Walsh was reportedly wiretapped as part of a federal investigation into union practices when he led the Building Trades Council, according to Boston Magazine.\n“Can he raise his voice? Yes. But who can’t?” John J. Moriarty, a contractor who dealt with Walsh on numerous projects, told The Globe. “He would certainly forcefully want you to get to resolution, but I can honestly say I never felt threatened.” (RELATED: Joe Biden Expected To Name Current Connecticut Education Commissioner To Lead Education Department)\nMajor unions had come out in support of Biden choosing Walsh to lead the Department of Labor, Bloomberg News reported. American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations President Richard Trumka reportedly reached out to union leaders to rally support for Walsh.\n“Marty cut his teeth in the labor movement. He is a card-carrying union member who has executive experience running a large city,” said American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees President Lee Saunders in a statement. “There’s no doubt he’d be a high profile and passionate fighter for workers’ rights and that is why AFSCME backs him for secretary of labor.”\nPending Senate confirmation, Biden’s cabinet is still poised to become the most diverse in U.S. history, according to The Brookings Institution.\nWalsh declared racism a public health crisis in June following the death of George Floyd who died after a Minneapolis police officer kneeled on his neck.\nContent created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org.}}
{{Two huge explosions have rocked Beirut, killing at least 50 people, injuring thousands more, and sending an enormous blast wave across the city that shattered windows, knocked down doors and shook buildings.\nHundreds of homes were left uninhabitable after the blasts ripped through a section of the Lebanese capital’s port.\nThousands of people sought treatment in nearby hospitals, which were struggling to cope with the casualties. Cars were left strewn across the surrounding highway, and the blast was heard up to 50 miles away in the country’s north. The health minister Hamad Hassan put the confirmed death toll at at least 50 with 2,700 injured.\nScroll to continue with content Ad\nRelated: Beirut explosion: dead and wounded among 'hundreds of casualties', says Lebanon Red Cross – live updates\n“God help us from all these catastrophes, said Mamdouh, 25, a caterer who lost his job in June. “If this was an accident, as they’re saying, it’s the worst you could ever imagine. This was like a nuclear bomb. what have we done to deserve this?”\nHours after the explosion, which took place at 6:05pm (1605 BST), the cause remained unclear. Israel denied responsibility and said it had offered humanitarian and medical aid.\nInitial reports suggested that a fireworks warehouse was involved. The Lebanese security chief Abbas Ibrahim later blamed combustible chemicals stored in a warehouse. The interior minister, Mohammed Fahmi, said ammonium nitrate had been among the materials stored and called for an investigation into how it ignited.\n“Talk of fireworks is ridiculous,” said Ibrahim. “There are no fireworks but rather highly explosive material, and I can’t foretell the investigations … it seems the explosion happened in a warehouse of highly explosive material that was confiscated years ago.”\nLebanon’s prime minister Hassan Diab declared Wednesday a national day of mourning and vowed accountability for those responsible, claiming there had been warnings about hazardous material stored at the port going back to 2014.\nStory continues\nSo powerful was the force of the blast that it even rattled buildings in west and south Beirut. It happened three days before the verdict is due in an international tribunal trial of four men accused of blowing up a former Lebanese prime minister 15 years ago.\nAny link to the tribunal result was quickly downplayed. Meanwhile, the Israeli government said its forces had not carried out an attack. “Israel has nothing to do with the incident,” an Israeli security official told Reuters on condition of anonymity. Israel’s foreign minister, Gabi Ashkenazi, told Israeli N12 television news that the explosion was most likely an accident caused by a fire.\nThe Beirut port is known to be used by the militant group cum political bloc Hezbollah, which denied any of its facilities had been hit.\nFirefighters work at the scene of the explosion. Photograph: Ibrahim Dirani/EPA\nThe final death toll from the biggest explosion to ever rock Beirut is expected to be significantly higher than the figure given by Hassan.\nGeorges Kettaneh, a Lebanese Red Cross official, said more deaths were expected when rescue teams combed through damaged buildings.\nA doctor at St George’s hospital, less than 2km (1.2 miles) from the blast, said injured people were being brought for treatment but were unable to be received because the hospital had been destroyed.\n“They’re bringing people to the hospital but we can’t treat them,” he said. “They’re leaving them outside in the street. The hospital is broken, the ER is broken.”\nVideos shot by bystanders and posted to social media showed a smaller explosion with mini blasts rippling through a warehouse, followed by an enormous secondary blast, which lifted cars from a nearby highway and ravaged a nearby overpass.\nDamage at the port and in nearby entertainment areas was apocalyptic.\nThe destruction comes as Lebanon is grappling with an economic implosion that has slashed incomes and jobs and led to soaring nationwide poverty. It also occurred amid rising tensions between Israel and Hezbollah along Lebanons southern border.\nThe impact of the blast, which was reminiscent of massive blasts during Lebanon’s civil war, was felt 200km away in Cyprus. “Everyone in Cyprus felt it,” said George, a resident of Larnaca. “The door was shaking in my house. In Larnaca they heard it and felt it … It was so loud we thought it happened here. My house was shaking.”\nThe office of the Daily Star newspaper, about one kilometre from the blast , was among the buildings to sustain damage from the explosion. Another newspaper, An-Nahar, whose headquarters is opposite the port, said 15 of its staff were in hospital.\nBREAKING: Massive explosion in Beirut. Footage from the daily star office now in Lebanon pic.twitter.com/2uBsKP5wCH — Ghada Alsharif (@GhadaaSharif) August 4, 2020\nInside the port, buildings were reduced to shells, shipping containers flung across the scene and several fires raging.\nOne woman covered in blood from the waist up walked down a ruined street while talking furiously on her phone. On another street, a woman with a bloodied face looked distraught, staggering through traffic with two friends at her side.\n“This country is cursed,” a young man passing by muttered.}}
{{Investigators began searching through the wreckage of Beirut’s port for clues to the cause of the massive explosion that ripped across the Lebanese capital, and the government ordered port officials put under house arrest amid speculation that negligence was to blame.\nA drone picture shows the scene of an explosion at the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon. Source: Associated Press\nThe investigation is focusing on how 2750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate, a highly explosive chemical used in fertilisers, came to be stored at the facility for six years, and why nothing was done about it.\nInternational aid flights began to arrive as Lebanon’s leaders struggled to deal with the shocking aftermath of yesterday’s blast, crippled by an economic crisis and facing a public that blames chronic mismanagement and corruption among the ruling elite for the disaster.\nThe explosion at the port killed at least 135 people and wounded about 5000, Health Minister Hamad Hassan said. Hospitals were overwhelmed — one that was damaged in the blast had to evacuate all its patients to a nearby field for treatment. Buildings were damaged for miles around the city, and Beirut’s governor said that hundreds of thousands might not be able to return to their homes for two or three months.\nIt was the worst, most destructive single explosion to strike Lebanon in a history filled with destruction, in a 1975-1990 civil war, conflicts with Israel and periodic terror attacks.\nA senior US Defence Department official and member of the US intelligence community said there were no indications the massive explosion that erupted yesterday in Lebanon’s capital was the result of an attack by either a nation state or proxy forces.\nYour playlist will load after this ad\nBoth individuals spoke to The Associated Press under condition of anonymity because they were not authorised to discuss intelligence briefings publicly. Both officials told the AP that at the moment, the explosion seems to have been caused by improper storage of explosives.\nFueling speculation that negligence was to blame for the accident, an official letter circulating online showed the head of the customs department had warned repeatedly over the years that the huge stockpile of ammonium nitrate stored in a hangar in the port was a danger, and asked judicial officials for a ruling on a way to remove it.\nAmmonium nitrate is a component of fertiliser that is potentially explosive. The 2750-tonne cargo had been stored at the port since it was confiscated from a ship in 2013, and yesterday it is believed to have detonated after a fire broke out nearby.\nThe 2017 letter from the custom’s chief to a judge could not be immediately confirmed, but state prosecutor Ghassan Oueidat ordered security agencies to start an immediate investigation into all letters related to the materials stored at the port as well as lists of people in charge of maintenance, storage and protection of the hangar.\nIn the letter, the customs chief warns of the “dangers if the materials remain where they are, affecting the safety of (port) employees” and asked the judge for guidance on what to do with it. He said five similar letters were sent in 2014, 2015 and 2016. The letter proposes the material be exported or sold to a Lebanese explosives company. It is not known if there was ever a response.\nPresident Michael Aoun vowed before a Cabinet meeting that the investigation would be transparent and that those responsible will be punished.\n“There are no words to describe the catastrophe that hit Beirut last night,” he said.\nAfter the meeting, the Cabinet ordered an unspecified number of Beirut port officials put under house arrest pending the investigation and declared a two-week state of emergency, effectively giving the military full powers during this time.\nThe government also said public schools and some hotels will be opened for the homeless and promised unspecified compensation for the victims.\nYour playlist will load after this ad\nWith the Port of Beirut destroyed, the government said imports and exports will be secured through other ports in the country, mostly in the northern city of Tripoli and the southern port city of Tyre.\nThere were signs that public anger went beyond port officials to the country's long-entrenched ruling class. Political factions have divvied up control of Lebanon's public institutions, including the port, using them to benefit their supporters, with little actual development. That has translated into crumbling infrastructure, power outages and poor services.\n“May the Virgin Mary destroy them and their families,” Joseph Qiyameh, a 79-year-old grocery store owner, said of the political leadership. The blast damaged his store, injuring his arm, and his wife — at home next door — was hospitalised with injuries. He doesn’t have the money to fix his business, with his savings locked up in banks by capital controls imposed during the crisis.\nA small protest broke out after former Prime Minister Saad Hariri made a public appearance, with people chanting slogans against politicians. Fistfights broke out between Hariri's supporters and protestors. Hariri resigned in October amid nationwide protests.\nResidents of Beirut confronted a scene of utter devastation today. Smoke still rose from the port. The blast knocked out a crater some 200 metres across that filled with seawater — it was as if the sea had taken a bite out of the port, swallowing buildings with it. Much of downtown was littered with damaged vehicles and debris.\nLebanon was already on the brink of collapse amid a severe economic crisis. Many have lost their jobs and seen their savings evaporate because of a currency crisis. Food security is a worry, since Lebanon imports nearly all its vital goods and its main port is devastated. The government is strapped for cash.\nDrone footage shot by The Associated Press showed the blast tore open the silo building, dumping its contents into the debris and earth thrown up by the blast. Estimates suggest some 85 per cent of the country’s grain was stored at the now-wrecked silos.\nYour playlist will load after this ad\nEconomy and Trade Minister Raoul Nehme said all the wheat stored there was contaminated and unusable. But he insisted Lebanon had enough wheat for its immediate needs and would import more, according to the state news agency.\nIn the Netherlands, a UN-backed tribunal postponed delivery of judgments in the trial of four members of the militant group Hezbollah charged with involvement in the 2005 assassination of former Lebanese prime minister Rafik Hariri.\nEmergency aid was starting to filter in. Two planeloads of French rescue workers and aid headed to Beirut and French President Emmanuel Macron was to arrive later today to offer support. Lebanon is a former French protectorate and the countries retain close political and economic ties.}}
{{Drone footage shot on Wednesday captures the utter destruction of Beirut’s port district following the massive explosion that killed at least 135 people and injured 5,000 more.\nThe overhead footage shows leveled buildings, tangled wreckage and burned-out cars strewn in the streets of the port area in the wake of Tuesday’s blast.\nThe explosion is believed to have emanated from a 2,750-ton cache of ammonium nitrate — commonly used as a fertilizer — left to sit in a warehouse for some six years after it was confiscated from a Russian businessman, according to officials and reports.\nIt flattened Lebanon’s main grain storage silos, leaving the country with less than a month’s worth of reserves, officials said Wednesday.\nThe Middle Eastern nation was already battling both the coronavirus pandemic and a crippling economic downturn before Tuesday’s blast, that’s left some 300,000 people homeless.}}
{{A 29-year-old woman being filmed in her bridal gown in a courtyard in Beirut, Lebanon, on Tuesday was thrown to the ground when a massive explosion took place at the city’s port, killing at least 135 people and injuring thousands.\nThe video of Israa Seblani went viral on social media, and in an interview following her escape she thanked God for protecting her and her loved ones.\n“There is a lot of damage, many people were killed and wounded. But also if I want to look at us, myself, my husband, the photographer – how we escaped unharmed, I thank God for protecting us,” Seblani said in a Reuters article. “This alone makes me feel optimistic and to keep the joy of the occasion that I came here to celebrate.”\nReuters reported on the aftermath of the blast and the wedding plans:\nSeblani, a doctor working in the United States, helped to check on the injured nearby, before fleeing central Beirut’s Saifi square to safety. A day later, she and her husband Ahmad Subeih, 34, a businessman in Beirut, were struggling to process what happened. “I have been preparing for my big day for two weeks and I was so happy like all other girls, ‘I am getting married’. My parents are going to be happy seeing me in a white dress, I will be looking like a princess,” she told Reuters.\n“What happened during the explosion here – there is no word to explain … I was shocked, I was wondering what happened, am I going to die? How am I going to die?” Seblani said.\nIn a photo of the bride taken in her regular clothes following the harrowing experience, shattered glass can be seen in the background and crushed flowers on banquet tables readied for the wedding celebration and then abandoned.\nSubeih told Reuters about revisiting the damaged hotel on Wednesday to get their belongings and passports.\n“The scene in the room was unbelievable,” he said.\nReuters reported that Subeih is still awaiting a U.S. visa that will allow him to join his wife in the U.S.\n“Seblani loves Lebanon, but feels that after Tuesday’s blast, living there is not an option,” the article said.\nFollow Penny Starr on Twitter}}
{{The mother of a 20-year-old Black man who was fatally shot by Minnesota police this week says it all started when police pulled her son over f…}}
{{Lebanon's prime minister says he is stepping down from his job as the entire government quits in the wake of the Beirut port explosion that has triggered public fury and mass protests.\nIn a brief televised speech, Prime Minister Hassan Diab said this morning that he is taking "a step back" so he can stand with the people "and fight the battle for change alongside them".\n"I declare today the resignation of this government. May God protect Lebanon," he said, repeating the last phrase three times.\nHis entire cabinet had resigned a brief while earlier.\nA file photograph of Hassan Diab. (AP)\nThe developments follow a weekend of anti-government protests in the wake of the August 4 explosion in Beirut's port that caused widespread destruction, killed at least 160 people and injured about 6000 others.\nDiab blamed corrupt politicians who preceded him for the "earthquake" that has hit Lebanon.\n"They (political class) should have been ashamed of themselves because their corruption is what has led to this disaster that had been hidden for seven years," he added.\nThe resignation of the government risks opening the way to dragged-out negotiations over a new Cabinet amid urgent calls for reform.\nAnti-government protesters use fireworks against Lebanese riot police during a protest in the aftermath of last Tuesday's massive explosion which devastated Beirut. (AP)\nProtests in stricken Beirut as blast death toll rises View Gallery\nThe moment typified Lebanon's political dilemma. Since October, there have been mass demonstrations demanding the departure of the entire sectarian-based leadership over entrenched corruption, incompetence and mismanagement.\nBut the ruling oligarchy has held onto power for so long — since the end of the civil war in 1990 — that it is difficult to find a credible political figure not tainted by connections to them.\nAlthough Diab's resignation had appeared inevitable after the catastrophe, he seemed unwilling to leave and only two days ago made a televised speech in which he offered to stay on for two months to allow for various factions to agree on a roadmap for reforms. But the pressure from within his own Cabinet proved to be too much.\nDiab's government was formed after his predecessor, Saad Hariri, stepped down in October in response to the demonstrations. It took months of bickering among the leadership factions before they settled on Diab.\nProtesters throw back tear gas canisters towards riot policemen during an anti-government protest in Beirut, Lebanon. (AP)\nDestroyed buildings are visible a day after a massive explosion occurred at the port in Beirut, Lebanon. (Getty)\nHis government, which was supported by Hezbollah and its allies and seen as one-sided, was basically doomed from the start, tasked with meeting demands for reform but made up of all the factions that reformers want out. His government was basically doomed from the start, tasked with meeting demands for reform but made up of all the factions that reformers want out.\nNow the process must start again, with Diab's government in a caretaker role as the same factions debate a new one.\n"I hope that the caretaking period will not be long because the country cannot take that. Lets hope a new government will be formed quickly," Public Works Minister Michel Najjar told reporters. "An effective government is the least we need to get out of this crisis."\nThe weekend protests saw clashes with security forces firing tear gas at protesters.\nThe explosion is believed to have been caused by a fire that ignited a 2750-ton stockpile of highly volatile ammonium nitrate. The material had been stored at the port since 2013 with few safeguards despite numerous warnings of the danger.\nBEIRUT, LEBANON - AUGUST 08: Protesters move through a cloud of tear gas during a protest at Martyrs Square on August 8, 2020 in Beirut, Lebanon. The Lebanese capital is reeling from this week's massive explosion that killed at least 150 people, wounded thousands, and destroyed wide swaths of the city. Residents are demanding accountability for the blast, whose suspected cause was 2,700 tons of ammonium nitrate stored for years at the city's port. (Photo by Daniel Carde/Getty Images) (Daniel Carde/Getty Images)\nLosses from the blast are estimated to be between US$10 billion to US$15 billion ($14 billion to $21 billion), and nearly 300,000 people were left homeless in the immediate aftermath.\nThe last decision taken by Diab's government before its resignation was to refer the case of the explosion to the Supreme Judicial Council, which handles crimes infringing on Lebanon's national security as well as political and state security crimes. The Supreme Judicial Council is Lebanon's top judicial body.\nA judge on Monday questioned the heads of the country's security agencies. Public Prosecutor Ghassan El Khoury questioned Major General Tony Saliba, the head of State Security, according to state-run National News Agency. It gave no further details, but other generals are scheduled to be questioned.\nState Security had compiled a report about the dangers of storing the material at the port and sent a copy to the offices of the president and prime minister on July 20. The investigation is focused on how the ammonium nitrate came to be stored at the port and why nothing was done about it.\nA drone picture shows the scene of an explosion at the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon. (AP)\nNajjar, the public works minister, said he learned about the material's presence 24 hours before the blast, receiving a report about the material and holding a meeting with port officials before calling its chief, Hassan Korayetem.\n"I wrote a report in the morning the explosion happened in the evening," Najjar said. Asked why he only learned of it the day before, Najjar said, "I don't know. Truly I don't know."\nAbout 20 people have been detained after the blast, including the head of Lebanon's customs department and his predecessor, as well as the head of the port. Dozens of people have been questioned, including two former Cabinet ministers, according to government officials.\nOn Sunday, world leaders and international organisations pledged nearly US$300 million ($418 million) in emergency humanitarian aid to Beirut in the wake of the explosion, but warned that no money for rebuilding the capital would be made available until Lebanese authorities commit themselves to the political and economic reforms demanded by the people.\nIran meanwhile expressed concern that Western countries and their allies might exploit anger over the explosion to pursue their political interests. Iran supports the Hezbollah militant group, which along with its allies dominates the government and parliament.\nA protester uses a slingshot toward the Lebanese riot police, during anti-government protest following Tuesday's massive explosion which devastated Beirut, Lebanon, Sunday, Aug. 9. 2020. (AP Photo/Hussein Malla) (AP Photo/Hussein Malla)\nIranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Abbas Mousavi said "it is natural for people to be frustrated". But he said it would be "unacceptable if some individuals, groups and foreign countries use the incident as a pretext for their purposes and intentions".\nIsrael's defence minister drew a line Monday between the blast and claims that Hezbollah stores its rockets and weapons deep inside civilian areas.}}
{{Article content\nWASHINGTON — The top Republican in the U.S. House of Representatives said he plans to talk to President-elect Joe Biden about how to unite the country, according to a statement released on Friday.\nHouse Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy of California said in a statement he had “reached out to President-elect Biden today and plan to speak to him about how we must work together to lower the temperature and unite the country to solve America’s challenges.” (Reporting by Mike Stone in Washington, D.C.)}}
{{A general view of the Beirut harbor area after a large explosion from a warehouse that stored fireworks on Tuesday. Photo by Wael Hamzeh/EPA-EFE\nFirefighters try to extinguish flames after a large explosion rocked the harbor area of Beirut, Lebanon on Tuesday. Photo by Wael Hamzeh/EPA-EFE\nAug. 4 (UPI) -- Two explosions rocked the Lebanese capital of Beirut on Tuesday afternoon, shattering windows for miles across the city. Dozens were killed and thousands injured, local officials said.\nLebanese Health Minister Hamad Hassan said the blasts killed at least 50 people and injured more than 2,500. The Lebanese Red Cross said those numbers are likely to increase as the dust settles.\nAdvertisement\nAuthorities said a warehouse where firecrackers were stored near Beirut's port was the source of the explosion after a fire started inside the building. The cause of the fire was under investigation.\nThe secondary blast was larger, creating a shockwave that pushed through the city for a radius of miles, blowing out windows in its path. Lebanon's state-run National News Agency said the presidential palace sustained damage to windows and doors, though no one there was injured.\nThe Lebanese Red Cross said it dispatched every ambulance from throughout the region to the capital city to assist the injured. The New York Times reported that at least one hospital was overwhelmed and turning away patients.\nThe headquarters of former Prime Minister Saad Hariri was also damaged in the explosion.\nCNN reported that Nazar Najarian, the secretary-general of the Kataeb Party, died, citing local state-run media.\nLebanese Prime Minister Hassan Diab declared Wednesday to be a national day of mourning.\nGhada Alsharif, a reporter for the Daily Star, shared a video online of the newspaper's heavily damaged office. Alsharif called the explosion "massive." Homes as far as 6 miles away suffered damage from the blast. The force from the blast even flipped over some vehicles on streets.\n"What I felt was that it was an earthquake," resident Rania Masri told CNN. "The apartment shook horizontally and all of a sudden it felt like an explosion and the windows and doors burst open. The glass just broke. So many homes were damaged or destroyed."}}
{{A HAUNTING photo has emerged showing firefighters sent to tackle the blaze that caused the cataclysmic Beuirut blast.\nThe photographer is confirmed dead, with the nine of the ten tragic firefighters missing and one confirmed dead.\n31 The heartbreaking picture of the hero fire crew's last moments Credit: Twitter\n31 Flames and thick, black smoke can be seen leaping from behind the warehouse Credit: Twitter\n31 The warehouse, shrouded in black smoke Credit: Twitter\n31 The dockside warehouse was loaded with explosive chemicals Credit: Twitter\n31 Tragic Sahar Faris's fiance is 'devastated'\n31 Tragic 25-year-old firefighter Sahar Faris, has been confirmed dead - dubbed 'the bride of Beirut'\nThe photograph, which has been verified by MailOnline, shows the fire crews attempting to gain access to Warehouse 12 at Beirut's port, after reports of a small fire - thought to have been sparked by a welder.\nThe warehouse at the centre of the tragedy has been described as a "ticking time bomb," with tensions boiling over after it emerged state officials were aware the space was packed with illegal chemicals and had been warned it could "blow up all of Beirut."\nThe heartbreaking snap was taken moments before the explosives were detonated by the flames, killing 137 and injuring around 5,000 helpless citizens.\nThe three hero firefighters pictured, Jo Noon, Methal Hawwa and Najib Hati have been named as part of the 10-person rapid response team - nine of whom are still missing.\nNajib Hati was so quick to the centre of the action he didn't even have time to put his uniform on.\nAnd tragic 25-year-old Sahar Faris, who is thought to have travelled to the scene with the three pictured, has been confirmed dead - dubbed "the bride of Beirut".\nShe was due to be married in June next year, with her broken-hearted fiance left devastated.\nIn an emotional online tribute to his fiancée, Gilbert Karaan wrote: "We were due to get married on 6th June 2021. You were preparing our house an buying furniture that you liked.\n"You got promoted too fast in your job, from a medic firefighter to a national martyr. Your wedding date will remain the same. Everything you wanted will be there, except me gazing at you in your white gown.\n31 The ten hero firefighters who arrived at the scene first\n31 Sahar Faris, pictured with her fiance Gilbert Karaan - who has been left 'devastated'\n31 Ms Faris and Mr Karaan were due to be married next year\n31 The blast left devastation in its wake Credit: EPA\n"You broke my back. You're my life, you burned my heart. I've lost the will to live since you've been gone. May whomever took you from me be cursed, may they have their hearts broken.\n"They robbed me of your smile and tenderness. I love you and I will always love you until we meet again and continue our journey together."\nThe four named firefighters were thought to be the first emergency service workers on the scene.\nThe six other rapid responders followed in a fire engine, an anonymous fire service official confirmed, according to MailOnline.\n31 Nine of the hero fire crew are still missing Credit: Twitter\nA picture allegedly showing the ammonium nitrate stored in Beirut's dockside Warehouse 12\nBeirut has been devastated by the blast\nThe explosion was one of the biggest non-nuclear blasts of all time\nIgor Grechushkin has been accused of abandoning the chemicals in Beirut\nA section of Beirut's port was completely blown apart in the explosion\nA family collects their belongings as they leave their damaged house\nTwo men clean their damaged shop near the site of the explosion\nVideo from the scene also shows firefighters in similar uniforms who appear to be at the scene moments before the blast.\nThe heartbreaking images emerged online, as fury escalated in the country - with many believing the horrific accident could have been avoided.\nIt has emerged the powder-keg of chemicals was shipped by Russian businessman Igor Grechushkin who has been accused of abandoning it in Beirut.\nThe killer cargo was confiscated in 2014 from the Moldovan-flagged ship Rhosus while en route from Batumi in the ex-Soviet republic of Georgia to Mozambique\n'Hang up the nooses' is now trending across Lebanese social media in an indication of how the people of the broken capital now feel."\nThe revelation fuelled new fury among a population already rocked by a financial crisis which has left half the country in poverty.\nDemonstrators in downtown Beirut attacked the convoy of former Lebanese prime minister Saad Hariri and brawled with his bodyguards in the most overt display of anger since Tuesday's explosion.\nThe government has vowed to investigate the disaster and has urged the military to place those responsible for storing the explosive substance under house arrest.\nBut a 45-year-old resident of the devastated Mar Mikhail district, branded the country's politicians "enemies of the state".\n"They killed our dreams, our future," said Lina Daoud. "Lebanon was a heaven, they have made it hell."\nThe Port of Beirut and customs office is notorious for being one of the most corrupt and lucrative institutions in Lebanon where various factions and politicians, including Hezbollah, hold sway.\nThe investigation is focusing on how 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate, a highly explosive chemical used in fertilizers, came to be stored at the facility for six years, and why nothing was done about it.\nA blast survivor is saved from the wreckage of his home\nA massive clean up operation is now underway across Beirut\nA survivor is pulled from the rubble of a collapsed building\nThe deadly explosion was one of the biggest non-nuclear blasts in history\nThe blast killed at least 135 people and left thousands injured\nPort officials claimed to have repeatedly warned the authorities of the dangerous cargo at Warehouse 12.\nThousands were injured in the fireball which flattened buildings, ripped people's clothes from their bodies and damaged properties up to six miles away.\nThe blast - which has caused up to £4bn worth of damage - was so large it could be heard 110 miles across the sea in Cyprus.\nAn Instagram page has been set-up to help find some of the thousands of missing victims.\nPrime Minister Hassan Diab vowed those responsible will "pay the price" as rescue operations continue in Beirut.\nInternational aid is being mobilised across the world to help support the victims and search for those potentially still trapped beneath the rubble.\nThe US, UK, France, Gulf states and even rivals Israel have offered money and assistance, as President Aoun declared three days of mourning and announced he would release £50m of emergency funds.\nForeign Secretary Dominic Raab said the Lebanese prime minister told him there would be a "full, thorough and rigorous investigation" to get to the truth.\nMr Raab said: "I think the people of the Lebanon deserve no less - and that there will be full accountability."\nMost read in News WORMS FEARS Has your child got threadworms? Here's the symptoms - and how cure them GREAT DEFENDERS We test suncreams for the heatwave - so is a £3 one as good as a £30 one? TO CATCH A CHEAT Furious wife beats and strips her husband's suspected mistress in the street - but crowd does nothing ‘WE LIVE ON AIR’ 'Breatharian' couple claim they have barely eaten for NINE YEARS Hard Luck A deadly breed of spider which gives bite victims painful ERECTIONS is in the UK Filming fun Where was hit comedy RTE series The Young Offenders filmed?\nHe added the the details of Brits caught up in the Beirut blast was still being established - with a number known to have been injured.\nBeirut's governor Marwan Aboud said as many as 300,000 people may have been left homeless with many buildings reduced to an uninhabitable mess of rubble and glass.\nThere are concerns of food shortages and unrest in the city, with the blast compounding anger stemming from a severe economic crisis and the coronavirus pandemic.\n31 The blast devastated the city Credit: EPA\n31 Victims crowd round the wounded following the horrific blast Credit: AP:Associated Press\n31 The scenes were apocalyptic Credit: AFP or licensors\nA woman cries at a vigil to honour those killed in the explosion\nLebanese people from around the world have been united in grief\nA woman lights a candle with her son during a vigil in Canada to honour those who died}}
{{WASHINGTON, D.C. (AP) - A Republican state lawmaker from West Virginia has resigned as he faces charges of entering a restricted area of the U.S. Capitol after he livestreamed himself with rioters.\nDel. Derrick Evans notified GOP Gov. Jim Justice of his resignation in a letter Saturday, effective immediately.\nEvans says he takes full responsibility for his actions and deeply regrets any hurt, pain or embarrassment he may have caused.\nHe said he hopes his resignation can remove any cloud of distraction from the state Legislature and can help to begin the healing process.}}
{{@ChiefDavidRoddy David Roddy has been a member of the Chattanooga Police Department for 24 years.\nAfter the video of George Floyd’s arrest and his subsequent death went viral on Monday, a Tennessee police chief tweeted his thoughts on Wednesday.\nDavid Roddy said that officers who don’t have an issue with Floyd’s arrest, during which a Min it should turn in their badges.\nHis tweet has since gone viral with over 159,000 retweets and 623,000 likes.\nVisit Insider’s homepage for more stories.\nA Tennessee police chief by the name of David Roddy sent a message to his fellow officers on Twitter in response to the death of George Floyd.\nOn Wednesday, Chattanooga Police Department Chief David Roddy said police officers who didn’t see an issue with the graphic video that showed former Minneapolis police officer David Chauvin kneeling on Floyd’s neck as the 46-year-old repeatedly said, “I can’t breathe,” should quit the force.\n“There is no need to see more video. There no need to wait to see how “it plays out”. There is no need to put a knee on someone’s neck for NINE minutes. There IS a need to DO something. If you wear a badge and you don’t have an issue with this…turn it in,” Roddy wrote.\nThere is no need to see more video. There no need to wait to see how “it plays out”. There is no need to put a knee on someone’s neck for NINE minutes. There IS a need to DO something. If you wear a badge and you don’t have an issue with this…turn it in. pic.twitter.com/frNCAWCeq6 — David Roddy (@ChiefDavidRoddy) May 27, 2020\nRoddy’s tweet has since gotten over 159,000 likes and 623,000 retweets. According to the Chattanooga Police Department website, Roddy has 24 years of service under his belt.\nFloyd was pronounced dead at a local hospital on Monday shortly after his arrest. Since the video starting circulating social media,Chauvin was charged on Friday with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter, and all four officers that were involved in the arrest were fired.\nFootage of the arrest has also sparked outrage across the country causing protests in cities like Minneapolis, Atlanta, New York, Los Angeles, Denver, Detroit, Dallas, Washington, DC, and more.\nRoddy did not immediately respond to Insider’s request for comment.\nBusiness Insider Emails & Alerts Site highlights each day to your inbox. Email Address Join\nFollow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram.}}
{{A Fairfield County man has been charged in connection to the violent assault of a police officer during the deadly pro-Trump Capitol Hill riot on Wednesday, Jan. 6 that was captured on video and shown repeatedly throughout the world.\nPatrick Edward McCaughey III, age 23, of Ridgefield, "knowingly and willfully joined a crowd of individuals who forcibly entered the grounds of the United States Capitol and impeded, disrupted, and disturbed the orderly conduct of business by the United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate," according to a complaint by Federal authorities.\nAfter Metro Police shared images of a suspect wanted in connection to the incident, two tipsters directed authorities to McCaughey.\nMcCaughey was charged with:\nAssaulting, resisting, or impeding certain officers or employees;\nRestricted building or grounds;\nCivil disorder;\nViolent entry or disorderly conduct.\nOfficer Daniel Hodges, of the Washington D.C. Metropolitan Police Department was working his evening shift in his official capacity while wearing his official MPD uniform on Jan. 6, according to the federal complaint.\nDuring that shift, Officer Hodges was directed to report to the Capitol building to assist the United States Capitol Police in their duties to maintain the security of the United States Capitol building.\nShortly before 3 p.m., Officer Hodges and many other MPD and USCP officers gathered in the interior tunnel of the United States Capitol building, which leads out to an archway by the lower west terrace door.\nA large crowd of rioters pushed forward into the tunnel and tried to push past the line of police.\nPortions of the rioters’ effort to get into the tunnel at the lower west terrace door was captured in video footage posted to YouTube.\nThe video showed a large group of rioters attempting to break through the line of uniformed law enforcement officers who were in place to prevent rioters from entering the lower west terrace door of the United States Capitol.\nHodges and other law enforcement officers are at the front of the line attempting to stop numerous rioters from gaining access to the United States Capitol Building.\nUnidentified rioters can also be overheard planning and implementing a rotation of rioters to have the “fresh” rioters upfront to combat law enforcement, with various unidentified individuals yelling “we need fresh patriots in the front” and “we need fresh people.”\n"In the front line of rioters, an individual, who has subsequently been identified as McCaughey, with shoulder length light brown hair, slightly tinted eyeglasses, and wearing a brown in color hooded sweatshirt can be seen using a clear police riot shield to physically push against the left side of Officer Hodges’ body," the federal complaint against McCaughey added.\nOfficer Hodges was pinned between the clear police riot shield being held by McCaughey and the lower west terrace door. Officer Hodges appeared to be loudly crying out in pain, the federal complaint added.\nAs Officer Hodges was being pinned to the door by McCaughey, a separate rioter was violently ripping off Officer Hodges’ gas mask, exposing Officer Hodges’ bloodied mouth.\nAs McCaughey was using the riot shield to push against Officer Hodges, numerous other rioters behind and around McCaughey appeared to add to the weight against Officer Hodges.\nClick here to sign up for Daily Voice's free daily emails and news alerts.}}
{{WASHINGTON -- Defying President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence said Wednesday that he does not have the power to discard electoral votes that will make Democrat Joe Biden the next president on Jan. 20.Pence said in a statement issued minutes before he was to begin presiding over a joint session of Congress to count those votes that it was "my considered judgement that my oath to support and defend the Constitution constrains me from claiming unilateral authority to determine which electoral votes should be counted and which should not."In the days before the joint session, Trump has pressured his vice president to toss electors from battleground states that voted for Biden to overturn the will of voters in a desperate and futile bid to undo President-elect Joe Biden's victory in the November election."If Mike Pence does the right thing we win the election," Trump told thousands of supporters who rallied Wednesday on the Ellipse, just south of the White House, an hour before the count in Congress was to begin."All Vice President Pence has to do is send it back to the states to recertify and we become president and you are the happiest people," Trump said, repeating a falsehood he has been promoting leading up to the congressional session.Trump repeatedly pressured Pence to act during his more than 75-minute speech to supporters. "Mike Pence is going to have to come through for us," Trump said, "and if he doesn't, it's a sad day for our country."Shortly before the 1 p.m. start of the joint session and even as Trump continued his verbal haranguing, Pence made clear in a three-page letter that he would follow the Constitution, not the commander in chief. While Trump was speaking, Pence's motorcade carried him through a heavily-secured Washington toward the Capitol, where thousands of Trump supporters were marching.Pence has no unilateral power under the Constitution and congressional rules that govern the count. It is up to the House and Senate to voice objections, and states' electors were chosen in accordance with state law, not fraudulently.Beginning at 1 p.m., Pence began to open the certificates of the electoral votes from each state and present them to the appointed "tellers" from the House and Senate in alphabetical order. At the end of the count, Pence, seated on the House of Representatives' rostrum, has the task of announcing who has won the majority of votes for both president and vice president.Despite his largely ceremonial assignment, Pence has faced intense pressure from the president and legions of supporters who want the vice president to use the moment to overturn the will of the voters in a handful of battleground states.Pence told Trump during their weekly lunch in the West Wing on Tuesday that he did not believe he had the power to unilaterally overturn electoral votes, according to a person briefed on the one-on-one conversation. This person was not authorized to publicly discuss the private discussion, which was first reported by The New York Times, and spoke on condition of anonymity.Trump denied the report in a statement late Tuesday in which he continued to falsely assert Pence has powers he does not. But the vice president, whose office declined to discuss his plans, was not expected to deliver on Trump's request to overturn the electors, acknowledging he has no such unilateral power.Pence has spent hours with staff and the Senate parliamentarian to prepare for Wednesday's joint session, including studying the Electoral Count Act of 1887, which governs the proceedings, and relevant legal opinions.In fulfilling one of the few formal responsibilities of the vice presidency, Pence risks compromising his own political future. Pence is eyeing a run for the White House in 2024 and is banking on his years of loyalty to Trump, who could be a political kingmaker for years to come, to help him stand out in what is expected to be a crowded field.Despite claims by Trump and his allies, there was not widespread fraud in the election. This has been confirmed by a range of election officials and by William Barr, who stepped down as attorney general last month. Neither Trump nor any of the lawmakers promising to object to the count have presented credible evidence that would change the outcome.Nevertheless, more than 100 House Republicans and a dozen Senate Republicans have said they will challenge the electoral votes of at least one state. Majorities in both chambers are required to reject the will of voters, but enough Republican lawmakers have said they will join with Democrats to reject the last-ditch move by Trump's allies.}}
{{BEIRUT (AFP) - Sixteen staff members at Beirut's port, the site of a massive explosion, have been detained over the deadly blast that devastated large parts of the city, a military prosecutor said Thursday (Aug 6).\nLebanese authorities had announced an investigation into Tuesday's explosion, which they said was triggered by a fire igniting 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate stored in a warehouse at Beirut's port.\nLebanon's foreign minister said on French radio on Thursday that an investigating committee had been given four days to determine responsibility for the blast, which killed more than 130 people and wounded at least 5,000.\nMilitary prosecutor Fadi Akiki said in a statement that 18 staffers at Beirut's port had been called in for questioning, 16 of whom remain in custody pending further investigations.\nThey include port and customs officials as well as maintenance workers and their managers, Akiki said.\nHis statement came as an official confirmed to AFP that the central bank had ordered an asset freeze for seven port and customs officials, including Badri Daher, director-general of Lebanon's customs authority.\nThe official spoke on the condition of anonimity because he is not authorised to speak on the issue.\nA banking source confirmed to AFP that all the country's commercial banks recieved the order, which also lifts banking secrecy from accounts owned or linked to those in question.\nEven as they counted their dead and cleared streets of debris, many Lebanese were boiling with anger over a blast they see as the most shocking expression yet of their leadership's incompetence.\nRelated Story Anger mounts in Lebanon amid mourning for blast victims\nMany have raised questions as to how such a huge cargo of highly explosive material could have been left unsecured for years.\nFrench President Emmanuel Macron, who visited Lebanon on Thursday, called for an international enquiry, echoing demands widely supported in Lebanon and abroad for an independent probe.}}
{{Cell phone video reportedly showing HPD officer Tam Dinh Pham inside the U.S. Capitol building during the Jan. 6 riots (Courtesy of FBI)\nHOUSTON (KXAN) — An officer with the Houston Police Department is in FBI custody after his suspected participation in the violent riots at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6.\nAccording to the FBI’s criminal complaint, agents questioned Richmond, Texas, resident Tam Dinh Pham after he turned himself in. During the interview, Pham said he had been in Washington, D.C., with his wife on a business trip from Jan. 5 to 7 but had not attended the rally in support of now former President Donald Trump.\nHe also denied going to the Capitol building.\nBut when agents asked to see Pham’s phone, they found no photos from the time period when he would have been in D.C. This prompted agents to ask if they could see his “deleted” photo album — where they found several photos and videos agents say were easily identifiable as being taken inside the Capitol building.\nAgents say Pham claimed he wasn’t affiliated with any of the groups promoting the rally on social media and that he hadn’t carried a weapon. Instead, Pham said he’d merely seen people walking toward the Capitol building and followed them.\nHe alleges he continued following the crowd over fences, around barricades and past police officers as they moved inside the Capitol. Agents say at this time, he finally admitted to entering the building.\nPham, who says he’s been an HPD officer for 18 years, turned over the photos and videos to the FBI, where he reportedly can be seen for several minutes inside the Rotunda.\nHe’s charged with knowingly entering or remaining in a restricted building without lawful authority and with violent entry/disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\nAll cases tied to the riots are being prosecuted by the U.S. Department of Justice.\nSeveral other suspected rioters have been arrested, including two other Texans, Matthew Mazzoco, of San Antonio, and Jenna Ryan, of Frisco. Ryan, a real estate broker, made national headlines after she reportedly took a private jet to the riots — all alleged to be documented on her social media channels.\nAs of last week, the Justice Department reported opening investigations into over 170 people in connection to the riots. At that time, at least 70 criminal cases had been filed.\nActing U.S. Attorney Michael Sherwin says many will felony charges of sedition and conspiracy.\n(Information from KXAN.com)}}
{{WASHINGTON, DC – JANUARY 06: Crowds arrive for the “Stop the Steal” rally on January 06, 2021 in Washington, DC. Trump supporters gathered in the nation’s capital today to protest the ratification of President-elect Joe Biden’s Electoral College victory over President Trump in the 2020 election. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)\nUPDATE: The Cannon House Building where Rep. Kildee’s office is located has now been cleared.\nWashington, D.C. (WLNS) — Michigan Rep. Dan Kildee announced on Twitter his office has been evacuated amid Trump supporters storming into the Capitol.\nMy office building in Washington, D.C. has been evacuated. I am on the House floor for the Joint Session and my staff are safe. Thank you to the U.S. Capitol Police for their service—today and every day. — Rep. Dan Kildee (@RepDanKildee) January 6, 2021\nThe Trump supporters are protesting Congress’ certification of Pres-Elect Joe Biden to the presidency.\nFrom CBS News\nAt least six people were arrested in Washington, D.C. Tuesday evening and night as thousands of people geared up for larger protests in support of President Trump Wednesday, CBS D.C. affiliate WUSA-TV reported, citing local and U.S. Park Police. Among the charges were gun counts, illegal possession of fireworks and assault on a police officer.\nVideos on social media showed some clashes between protesters and police.\nOrganizers said that rally would continue all day. An afternoon march was also planned to the U.S. Capitol, where Congress will be voting to affirm the election results. A number of prominent Trump supporters were expected to attend, including Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton.\nJust blocks from the White House, protesters – many without masks – gathered in Freedom Plaza on Tuesday to decry the congressional vote. As temperatures dropped to the low 40s and a steady rain swept onto the streets, hundreds remained in the plaza into nightfall.\nThe president tweeted his support for the protesters: “Washington is being inundated with people who don’t want to see an election victory stolen by emboldened Radical Left Democrats. Our Country has had enough, they won’t take it anymore! We hear you (and love you) from the Oval Office. MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!”\nRead more about the DC protests here.}}
{{Karlie Kloss Says She's 'Tried' to Talk to Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner Amid Capitol Riots\nKarlie Kloss is speaking out following the riots at the United States Capitol. The 28-year-old model took to Twitter on Wednesday to slam the mob of President Donald Trump's supporters who violently overtook the Capitol building amid the vote to certify President-Elect Joe Biden's win.\nDespite the riots, the Electoral College's votes were counted early Thursday morning, when Vice President Mike Pence officially announced Biden's win.\n"Accepting the results of a legitimate democratic election is patriotic. Refusing to do so and inciting violence is anti-American," Kloss wrote in reference to the mob of rioters.\nIn a since-deleted tweet, one Twitter user encouraged Kloss to "tell your sister in law and brother [in] law," referring to Trump's daughter, Ivanka Trump, and her husband, Jared Kushner. Kloss has been married to Kushner's brother, Joshua Kushner, since 2018.\n"I've tried," Kloss replied.\nThe only Trump tell-all I want to read is Karlie Kloss' pic.twitter.com/VREB2cT5qc — Sophie Vershbow (@svershbow) January 7, 2021\nKloss is typically tight-lipped about her connection to the Trump family, though she did address the matter during an appearance on Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen last year.\n"I'm sure I'm not the only person in this country who does not necessarily agree with their family on politics," she said at the time. "I voted as a Democrat in 2016, and I plan to do the same in 2020."\n"I'm very passionate about different issues, women's reproductive health and I'm very involved with Planned Parenthood," she added.\nKloss went on to explain that she met her now-husband when she was 19, long before his family was involved in politics.\n"It was 2012, it was a different world," she said. "My man and I have been through a lot together. I'm so proud that he's my partner. It's not been easy but it's worth it. I would make that same decision a million times again."}}
{{State lawmaker charged with entering Capitol in riot resigns\nFILE - West Virginia Republican state Del. Derrick Evans exits the Sidney L. Christie U.S. Courthouse and Federal Building after being arraigned, Friday, Jan. 8, 2021, in Huntington, W.Va. Evans has resigned as he faces charges of entering a restricted area of the U.S. Capitol after he livestreamed himself with rioters. In a letter Saturday, Jan. 9, Evans notified GOP Gov. Jim Justice of his resignation, effective immediately. (Sholten Singer/The Herald-Dispatch via AP) less FILE - West Virginia Republican state Del. Derrick Evans exits the Sidney L. Christie U.S. Courthouse and Federal Building after being arraigned, Friday, Jan. 8, 2021, in Huntington, W.Va. Evans has resigned as ... more Photo: Sholten Singer, AP Photo: Sholten Singer, AP Image 1 of / 1 Caption Close State lawmaker charged with entering Capitol in riot resigns 1 / 1 Back to Gallery\nA Republican West Virginia state lawmaker resigned Saturday as he faces charges of entering a restricted area of the U.S. Capitol after he livestreamed himself with rioters.\nIn a letter, Del. Derrick Evans notified GOP Gov. Jim Justice of his resignation, effective immediately.\nEvans, 35, appeared before a federal judge in Huntington, West Virginia, on Friday afternoon after being arrested. If convicted, he faces up to a year and a half in federal prison for two misdemeanors: entering a restricted area and disorderly conduct.\nIn a statement Saturday, Evans said he takes full responsibility for his actions, adding that he deemed it best for him to resign at this point to “focus on my personal situation and those I love.”\n“I take full responsibility for my actions, and deeply regret any hurt, pain or embarrassment I may have caused my family, friends, constituents and fellow West Virginians, said Evans.\nIn a now-deleted video that was widely shared online, Evans is seen clamoring inside a jampacked Capitol building doorway, trying with others to push his way inside. He hollers along with other Trump loyalists and fist-bumps a law enforcement officer who let them in.\nAfter pushing into the building, video shows Evans milling around the Capitol Rotunda, where historic paintings depict the republic’s founding, and imploring others to not vandalize artwork and busts. Some of the pieces were later vandalized.\n___\nJohn Raby and Cuneyt Dil contributed to this report from Charleston, West Virginia.}}
{{Biggs told FBI agents that he had entered the Capitol building, but claimed the doors were already open when he went inside. Biggs also denied “having any knowledge of any pre-planned storming of the Capitol, and had no idea who planned it,” according to court documents.}}
{{Washington, Jan. 7, 2020 President Donald Trump’s former Chief of Staff and Special Envoy for Northern Ireland said on Thursday that he resigned from his post, the previous night after a mob of protesters stormed the U.S. Capitol building in Washington.\n“I called Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, last night to let him know I was resigning from that.\n“I can’t do it; I can’t stay,’’ Mulvaney said.\nMulvaney said more officials from Trump’s administration could soon quit, while others plan to stay on because they fear the president could “put something worse in’’ before leaving the office on Jan. 20.\nOn Wednesday, Trump loyalists broke into the U.S. Capitol building after the president delivered a fiery speech to tens of thousands of supporters near the White House.\nDuring the remarks, Trump said he refused to concede and called on his supporters to keep fighting to prevent the election from being “stolen”, claiming widespread vote fraud, allegations that have been refuted by election officials.\nLike this: Like Loading...}}
{{(CNN) Rep. Andy Kim says he was devastated to see the smashed furniture, broken American flags, cigarette butts and other debris left behind by the pro-Trump mob that ran wild in the US Capitol. So he found a trash bag, got down on his knees and helped clean up.\n"It was really just kind of instinctual. I didn't really like think about it, I just wanted to do something," the New Jersey Democrat told CNN. "I just really felt like I needed to try to play a role in just fixing this mess that had occurred."\nKim sheltered in his office in the Rayburn House Office Building during Wednesday's riot and went to House floor once it was safe, to complete the process of affirming President-elect Joe Biden's Electoral College victory\n"We had this really unbelievably raw debate that unfolded. Everyone was very emotional, still, really quite shaken, still," Kim said.\nEarly Thursday morning, he decided to take a walk around the building, which was still littered with broken glass and other debris.}}
{{Emanuel Jackson, the man government prosecutors say repeatedly struck Capitol Police officers with a metal baseball bat, will remain in custody pending trial.\nFederal Magistrate Judge Michael Harvey called the charges against Jackson "very serious," adding that Jackson apparently had admitted he is the person in pictures and video shown repeatedly striking a Capitol Police officer with a bat.\nHarvey told Jackson and his attorney that he could think of no combination of conditions that would allow him to release Jackson and ensure the safety of the community. "People did die that day and it could have been even worse," said Harvey, calling Jackson a "willing participant," in the "violent attack" on the Capitol.\nCAPITOL RIOT SUSPECT WHO ALLEGEDLY ASSAULTED OFFICERS WITH BASEBALL BAT SURRENDERS TO POLICE: FEDS\nFLORIDA MAN WANTED IN CAPITOL RIOT BUSTED AFTER RETURNING TO DC FOR INAUGURATION\nThere has been not yet been a formal arraignment in this case, but Jackson's attorney indicated that the defendant is planning to plead not guilty in the case.\nJackson faces five federal charges, including assaulting an officer with a deadly weapon and obstructing an official proceeding at the Capitol. Each of those counts carries up to 20 years in prison. Court documents filed by the prosecution show several pictures, and a video, of the man they say is Jackson swinging a baseball bat at Capitol Police officers during the events of Jan. 6.\nCLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP\nGovernment prosecutors say Jackson was one of the first people to storm through the doorway of the Senate side of the Capitol building and struck an officer with his fist at that time. Jackson is accused of attacking Capitol Police again hours later with a bat.\nJackson will next appear in court for a preliminary hearing on Feb. 29 at 11:30 a.m.}}
{{A huge explosion in a port warehouse district near the center of Beirut killed more than 25 people, injured over 2,500 others and sent shock waves across the Lebanese capital on Tuesday, shattering windows and causing apartment balconies to collapse.\nOfficials expected the death toll to rise sharply as emergency workers dug through rubble across a swathe of the city to rescue people and remove the dead. It was the most powerful blast to hit Beirut in years, making the ground tremble.\n“What we are witnessing is a huge catastrophe,” the head of Lebanon’s Red Cross George Kettani told broadcaster Mayadeen. “There are victims and casualties everywhere — in all the streets and areas near and far from the explosion.”\nThree hours after the blast, which struck shortly after 6 p.m. (1500 GMT), a fire still blazed in the port district, casting an orange glow across the night sky as helicopters hovered and ambulance sirens sounded across the capital.\nA security source said victims were being taken for treatment outside the city because Beirut hospitals were already packed with wounded. Red Cross ambulances from the north and south of the country and the Bekaa Valley to the east were called in to cope with the huge casualty toll.\nThe blast was so big that some residents in the city, where memories of heavy shelling during the 1975 to 1990 civil war live on, thought an earthquake had struck. Dazed, weeping and, wounded, people walked through streets searching for relatives.\nLebanon’s interior minister said initial information indicated highly-explosive material, seized years ago, that had been stored at the port had blown up. The minister later told Al Jadeed TV ammonium nitrate had been in storage there since 2014.\nFootage of the explosion shared by residents on social media showed a column of smoke rising from the port district followed by an enormous blast, sending a ball of white smoke and fireball into the sky. Those filming the incident from high buildings two kilometers (more than a mile) from the port were thrown backwards by the shock.\nWatch a video of the blast below:\nBeirut: Monent of explosion pic.twitter.com/ucagaT7P3P — Amichai Stein (@AmichaiStein1) August 4, 2020\nLebanon’s health minister said more than 25 people had been killed and more than 2,500 were injured. Lebanon’s Red Cross said hundreds of people had been taken to hospitals.\nDay of mourning\nLebanese President Michel Aoun called for an emergency meeting of the country’s Supreme Defense Council, according to the presidency’s Twitter account. Prime Minister Hassan Diab called for a day of mourning on Wednesday.\nThe explosion occurred three days before a UN-backed court is due to deliver a verdict in the trial of four suspects from the Shi’ite group Hezbollah over a 2005 bombing which killed former Prime Minister Rafik al-Hariri and 21 other people.\nHariri was killed in another huge blast on the waterfront, although on that occasion it was caused by a truck bomb.\nIt was not immediately clear what caused Tuesday’s blaze that set off the blast.\nInternal Security Chief Abbas Ibrahim, touring the port area, said he would not pre-empt investigations.\nAn Israeli official said Israel, which has fought several wars with Lebanon, had nothing to do with the blast.\nThe governor of Beirut port told Sky News that a team of firefighters at the scene had “disappeared” after the explosion.\n“I saw a fireball and smoke billowing over Beirut. People were screaming and running, bleeding. Balconies were blown off buildings. Glass in high-rise buildings shattered and fell to the street,” said a Reuters witness.\nResidents said glass was broken in houses from Raouche, on the Mediterranean city’s western tip, to Rabieh ten kilometers (six miles) east. In Cyprus, a Mediterranean island 110 miles (180 kilometers) across the sea from Beirut, residents heard the blast bangs. One resident in Nicosia said his house and window shutters shook.\n“All the downtown area windows are smashed and there are wounded people walking around. It is total chaos,” a Reuters witness said.}}
{{Politics\nA handful of states and the District of Columbia are mobilizing approximately 6,200 National Guard members to Washington to provide security to the city following Wednesday’s deadly riot at the US Capitol, a US defense official tells CNN.\nThe guardsmen will be activated from the National Guards of Delaware, Virginia, New Jersey, Maryland, New York and DC, the official said, adding that although the details are still in the works, the troops will provide security around the city and the Capitol.\nArmy Secretary Ryan McCarthy said Thursday that in addition to the deploying of thousands National Guard members, work has begun to erect a seven-foot “non-scalable fence” around the grounds of the Capitol, both of which will be around for at least the next month.\n“These personnel and these security measures will be in place for no less than the next 30 days and we will be keeping all of these support mechanisms in place in constant coordination with the Capitol Hill police and the mayor’s office,” McCarthy said at a press conference, referring to DC Mayor Muriel Bowser.\nThe mobilization will likely provide some relief to local and federal authorities after the deadly riot at the Capitol on Wednesday that escalated after a mob of President Donald Trump’s supporters breached one of America’s most iconic buildings.\nAs the violence increased it was Vice President Mike Pence, not Trump, who helped facilitate the decision to mobilize members of the DC National Guard to the Capitol to provide more security to the building, which went into lockdown as rioters stormed the building, scaling its walls, breaking windows and doors and ransacking offices.\nTrump initially resisted deploying the National Guard on Capitol Hill as the mob breached the building, per a source familiar.\nKash Patel, acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller’s chief of staff, said in a statement Thursday that Trump and the acting secretary of defense spoke “multiple times this week about the request for National Guard personnel in DC,” but did not specify if they were in contact on Wednesday as the situation at the Capitol spiraled out of control.\n“During these conversations the President conveyed to the acting secretary that he should take any necessary steps to support civilian law enforcement requests in securing the Capitol and federal buildings,” Patel added.\nEarlier this week, the Trump administration said that civilian law enforcement would be tasked with protection of federal facilities but the Department of Defense received requests for additional support from the National Guard Wednesday as the situation became increasingly dangerous, a senior defense official told CNN.\nOn Monday, Miller approved a request from Bowser to deploy DC National Guard forces to the city to support local authorities during pro-Trump demonstrations scheduled for Tuesday and Wednesday, though the 340 forces were not tasked with conducting direct law enforcement missions.\nA woman identified as Ashli Babbitt was fatally shot by a US Capitol Police employee as the mob tried to force their way toward the House Chamber where members of Congress were sheltering, US Capitol Police said in a statement. DC Police Chief Robert Contee said three other people died from medical emergencies during the riot.}}
{{A man was fired from his job after wearing his work badge while storming the Capitol building Wednesday, according to a Navistar Direct Marketing Facebook post.\nA photo was posted on Twitter of the employee standing in the Capitol building Wednesday wearing a Trump hat and a work badge from Navistar Direct Marketing, a Maryland-based printing company.\nNavistar Direct Marketing in Maryland, you’ve got an employee to investigate. https://t.co/ph0M5ENuff pic.twitter.com/039nWvFWMQ — AltMommeh ???? #IMask4U ???? (@mommehK) January 6, 2021\nThe person tagged Nick Ellinger, the Chief Brand Officer for Moore DM Group, to bring his attention to the photo. Navistar is a member of the Moore DM Group, which launched the company in 2017.\nEllinger said Wednesday evening that the employee had been placed on administrative leave pending an investigation. Thursday morning, Ellinger announced that the employee had been fired. (RELATED: ‘You Open The F*cking Doors For Them’: Joe Scarborough Accuses Capitol Police Of Allowing Insurrection, Calls For Trump’s Arrest)\nAfter review of the photographic evidence, the employee in question has been terminated for cause. — Nick Ellinger (@nickellinger) January 7, 2021\nNavistar Direct Marketing released a statement on Facebook confirming that the employee had been let go.\n‘Navistar Direct Marketing was made aware that a man wearing a Navistar company badge was seen inside the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021 during the security breach,” the company said Thursday. “After review of the photographic evidence the employee in question has been terminated for cause.”\n“While we support all employee’s right to peaceful, lawful exercise of free speech, any employee demonstrating dangerous conduct that endangers the health and safety of others will no longer have an employment opportunity with Navistar Direct Marketing.”\nA mob of Trump supporters stormed the Capitol building Wednesday in protest of the certification of the Electoral College votes. One woman was shot by a police officer and later died from her injuries. Four people in total died during the riot and 68 people were arrested.}}
{{MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — A man who was with George Floyd on the night he died said his friend did not resist arrest and instead tried to defuse the situation before he ended up handcuffed on the ground and pleading for air as an officer pressed a knee against his neck.\nMaurice Lester Hall, a longtime friend of Floyd's, was a passenger in Floyd's car when police approached him May 25 as they responded to a call about someone using a forged bill at a shop. Hall told The New York Times that Floyd was trying to show he was not resisting.\n“I could hear him pleading, ‘Please, officer, what’s all this for?’” Hall told the newspaper.\nHall is a key witness in the state’s investigation into the four officers who apprehended Floyd. Derek Chauvin, the white officer who continued pressing his knee into Floyd’s neck even after Floyd became motionless, is charged with second-degree murder, third-degree murder and manslaughter. The three other officers are charged with aiding and abetting. All four officers were fired.\nA woman was also in the car with Floyd, but Hall said he didn't know her name. Hall's identity wasn't made public until the Times report.\n17 Newton Protest 6/4/2020\nHall told “Good Morning America” that the situation escalated quickly and police grabbed Floyd, put him in a squad car, dragged him back out and then “jumped on the back of the neck.” He said Floyd was put in an ambulance and that he didn’t know his friend had died until the next day, when he saw the widely viewed bystander video on Facebook.\n“He was just crying out at that time for anyone to help because he was dying,” Hall told the Times. “I’m going to always remember seeing the fear in Floyd’s face because he’s such a king. That’s what sticks with me, seeing a grown man cry, before seeing a grown man die.”\nSpringfield protest against police brutality ￼ Posted by MassLive on Wednesday, June 3, 2020\nHall, 42, said he visited a memorial for Floyd and then hitchhiked to Houston, where he was arrested Monday on outstanding warrants for felony possession of a firearm, felony domestic assault and felony drug possession. After his arrest, a Minnesota investigator interviewed him for hours about Floyd's death. His attorney said he has since been released on the warrant issue.\nMinnesota Gov. Tim Walz and the state Department of Human Rights have ordered a civil rights investigation into the Minneapolis Police Department to determine how to address racial discrimination and create systemic change. On Friday, Minneapolis city leaders and the state were working out an agreement for a temporary restraining order to force some immediate changes.\nAny agreement would require court approval.}}
{{Some of President Trump's supporters have tried to blame Wednesday's mob assault on the U.S. Capitol on left-wing "antifa" protesters — even though numerous prominent Trump fans posed for photos during the riot and bragged about their involvement after publicly planning the assault for weeks.\nMany of these claims are based on a Washington Times report that cited facial recognition company XRVision, claiming it had "matched" two purported antifa members to "men inside the Senate." The company issued a statement calling the report a lie and clarifying that it had actually matched the photos to two members of a neo-Nazi organization and a QAnon supporter. The statement confirmed what was already obvious from countless photos, videos and live-streams posted by the rioters themselves while waving Trump flags and wearing MAGA gear.\nAdvertisement:\nBy the time the statement was issued, the false antifa claim had already made its way across social media to Fox News and even the floor of the House of Representatives.\nAdmitting that he did not know "if the reports are true," Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Fla., declared that "some of the people who breached the Capitol today were not Trump supporters. They were masquerading as Trump supporters and in fact, were members of the violent terrorist group antifa."\nOther lawmakers pushed the claim as well. Rep. Paul Gosar, R-Ariz., who led the challenge to his state's electoral votes during the joint session of Congress that was targeted by the attackers, claimed on Twitter without evidence that "this has all the hallmarks of Antifa provocation." Rep. Mo Brooks, R-Ala., told Fox Business host Lou Dobbs that "there is some indication that fascist antifa elements were involved, that they embedded themselves in the Trump protests."\nAdvertisement:\nSome Fox News hosts have themselves insisted that Trump supporters could not possibly be behind the riot — which immediately followed Trump's speech urging supporters to go to the Capitol while falsely claiming the election had been rigged against him. Donald Trump Jr. told supporters at the preceding rally to "stand up and fight." Trump attorney Rudy Giuliani proposed settling the election by "trial by combat."\n"I'd like to know who the agitators were," Fox News host Sean Hannity said Wednesday, claiming that "those who truly support President Trump … do not support those that commit acts of violence."\n"They were likely not all Trump supporters," host Laura Ingraham said in the following hour, alluding to the debunked report. "I have never seen Trump rally attendees wearing helmets, black helmets, brown helmets, black backpacks — the uniforms you saw in some of these crowd shots."\nAdvertisement:\n"We may never know the truth here," fellow Fox host Tucker Carlson claimed earlier in the evening. "I keep seeing all kinds of accounts of who they were and what their motives might have been."\nFormer Republican vice-presidential nominee Sarah Palin told Fox News host Martha MacCallum that "a lot of it is the antifa folks," citing "pictures" that someone sent her.\nAdvertisement:\nSimilar claims were pushed on heavily pro-Trump Newsmax and Sinclair stations and were shared on Twitter by Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton, pro-Trump attorney Lin Wood and longtime Trump supporter Pastor Mark Burns, whose tweet was "liked" by Eric Trump.\nThough some Trump supporters based their frivolous claims on photos that spread across social media, the Washington Times story appears to be at the center of many of these allegations. The conservative newspaper claimed that XRVision "used its software to do facial recognition of protesters and matched two Philadelphia Antifa members to two men inside the Senate." The report claimed that one of the men "has a tattoo that indicates he is a Stalinist sympathizer" and the other "is someone who shows up at climate and Black Lives Matter protests in the West."\nThe company strongly denied the report and demanded a retraction and apology.\nAdvertisement:\n"XRVision views the Washington Times publication as outright false, misleading, and defamatory," the company said in a statement. "Our attorney has contacted the Washington Times and has instructed them to 'Cease and Desist' from any claims regarding the sourcing of XRVision analytics, retract their current claims, and publish an apology."\n"We concluded that two of the individuals (Jason Tankersley and Matthew Heimbach) were affiliated with the Maryland Skinheads and the National Socialist Movements," the statement said. "These two are known Nazi organizations; they are not Antifa. The third individual identified (Jake Angeli) is an actor with some QAnon promotion history. Again, no Antifa identification was made for him either."\nFact-checkers at The New York Times, Politifact and Snopes all confirmed that there was "no evidence of anyone but a mob of Trump supporters" involved in the melee. Many of them had openly plotted for weeks on social media, posed for photos during the siege and posted messages on conservative social media sites Gab and Parler as they tried to "hunt down" Vice President Mike Pence at the Capitol.\nAdvertisement:\nAngeli, better known in MAGA world as "Q Shaman," is a prominent figure in QAnon circles. He was seen in countless photos and videos wearing a horned and furry bison costume that he has worn to many other pro-Trump events. At one point, he was seen standing on the dais in the Senate chamber.\nPeople in QAnon garb were also seen chasing and confronting Capitol Police officers.\nHeimbach is a prominent white nationalist who helped promote the deadly Charlottesville protest in 2017 and was jailed for shoving a protester at a Trump rally.\nOther rioters included Tim Gionet, better known online as Baked Alaska, a far-right live streamer who frequently interviews white nationalists.\nAdvertisement:\nAnother person identified in the riot is Derrick Evans, who live-streamed himself inside the Capitol. Evans is a newly-elected member of the West Virginia state legislature.\nThe man seen in viral photos ransacking House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office and stealing her mail identified himself as Richard "Bigo" Barnett, and bragged to reporters about the incident.\nThe FBI issued a statement on Wednesday asking the public for help identifying other rioters.\n"The FBI is seeking information that will assist in identifying individuals who are actively instigating violence in Washington, DC," the bureau said on its website. "The FBI is accepting tips and digital media depicting rioting and violence in the U.S. Capitol Building and surrounding area in Washington, DC, on January 6, 2021."\nAdvertisement:\nPeople can submit photos or images to fbi.gov/USCapitol and report any relevant information to 1-800-CALL-FBI or tips.fbi.gov.}}
{{The owner of Yassin's Falafel House posted his response to the riots at the U.S. Capitol which broke out Wednesday.\nKNOXVILLE, Tenn. — "I'm Yassin from Knoxville, Tennessee and in Knoxville, we love each other and respect the results of democracy," said Yassin Terou, the owner of Yassin's Falafel House.\nThe post was in response to a viral video of a rioter at the U.S. Capitol who was briefly interviewed Wednesday, after storming the building. She was part of a riot where four people died, and which caused lawmakers to evacuate while counting Electoral College votes following the 2020 presidential election.\nTerous also posted several other responses to the riots. He said that the events should be remembered, and emphasized that people should not be proud of them. He said students should be taught that the riots were wrong and that people should respect democracy.\n"When you add gas to a fire the only thing you collect is chaos," he also said with a hashtag — #WeStayUnitedNotDivided.\nTerou, a refugee from Syria, also emphasized that the U.S. is unique in that it is not controlled by dictators and said that all people in the country have a voice in politics.\n"Praying for the safety of our people and our country," he said early during the riots.}}
{{Kent Nishimura / TNS\nRecent weeks have been rough for America. From FBI reporting, it looks like this next week might be rough as well. Seeing violence being brazenly perpetrated in the halls of our Capitol was shocking; a seemingly unreal attempt to subvert our constitutional democracy, that was more troubling in what it showed about how far down the rabbit hole some people will go, than in any ability it had to undermine our nation’s ability to function.\nBetween the attack on the Capitol and our response to the coronavirus, it is understandable that many are deeply concerned about the state of the nation.}}
{{This bride was posing for photos when a powerful explosion tore through Beirut Tuesday.\n•\nThe videographer pans past Israa Seblani’s big smile just as the blast is heard. She’s seen in the video moments later being led away from the square.\n•@CBCTheNational pic.twitter.com/FMEPXvfztu — Osama Mousa (@OsamaMo77920550) August 5, 2020\nA bride seen in a video moments before a blast ripped through Beirut is a Detroit medical student.\nDr. Israa Seblani, 29, was dressed in her wedding gown and smiling into the camera as a videographer panned the camera around her.\nSeconds later there was an explosion and debris everywhere and Seblani and her fiancé were thrown to the ground.\nThe video was shared online and was soon picked up by multiple media outlets.\nOfficials have said the explosion was likely caused by 2,750 metric tons of confiscated ammonium nitrate stored at a warehouse. The blast killed more than 130 people and injured more than 3,000 more.\nAfter things settled in the city, the couple held a ceremony and celebrated with family and friends, The New York Times reports.\nSeblani is completing a residency in endocrinology at a Detroit hospital.\nShe had flown into Lebanon from the U.S. to get married after postponing the wedding for three years while awaiting a visa for her fiancé, The Times reports.\nRELATED:\nAt least 50 killed, thousands hurt by explosion in Beirut}}
{{72, of Plattsburgh, died Friday, Jan. 8, 2021, at CVPH. In accordance with his wishes, there are no calling hours or services. Burial will be in St. Peter's Cemetery. Arrangements are entrusted to Brown Funeral Home, Plattsburgh.}}
{{article\nReddit has banned the subreddit group "r/DonaldTrump" from its platform after repeated violations of its policies in recent days amid the violent breach by supporters of the president at the U.S. Capitol.\nThe popular social networking site offers hundreds of subgroups, but "r/DonaldTrump" was one of the company’s largest political groups in support of the president.\n"Reddit's site-wide policies prohibit content that promotes hate, or encourages, glorifies, incites, or calls for violence against groups of people or individuals. In accordance with this, we have been proactively reaching out to moderators to remind them of our policies and to offer support or resources as needed," a Reddit Spokesperson told FOX TV Stations. "We have also taken action to ban the community r/donaldtrump given repeated policy violations in recent days regarding the violence at the U.S. Capitol."\nAny person who visits the subreddit group may find a message stating, "This community was banned due to a violation of Reddit’s rules against inciting violence," with Reddit linking to further rules titled "Do not post violent content."\nAnd this isn’t he first time Reddit has deleted similar accounts.\nIn June, Reddit banned the subreddit channel r/The_Donald, along with 2,000 other communities. This policy update came about three weeks after Black Lives Matter protests.\nAdvertisement\nRELATED: YouTube announces channels posting false election claims will receive strike, suspension\nThe news comes as several other social media outlets have banned similar content, and just days after President Donald Trump’s social media accounts were blocked during a violent pro-Trump riot inside the U.S. Capitol.\nOn Thursday, YouTube announced that all channels posting false election claims will now receive a strike and temporary account suspension.\n"Over the last month, we’ve removed thousands of videos which spread misinformation claiming widespread voter fraud changed the result of the 2020 election, including several videos that President Trump posted yesterday to his channel," Alex Joseph, a YouTube spokesperson, told FOX TV Stations.\nOn Wednesday, YouTube removed a video posted to Trump’s social media channel that YouTube said "violated our polices regarding content that alleges widespread fraud or errors changed the outcome of the 2020 U.S. Election."\nRELATED: Facebook, Instagram indefinitely blocking President Trump, Zuckerberg says\nTrump posted the video on multiple social media platforms asking a violent mob of his supporters to leave the Capitol building after they'd stormed it earlier on Wednesday. Trump spoke to his supporters in the video, saying, "I know your pain. I know your hurt. But you have to go home now." He went on to call the violent mob of his supporters "very special."\nIn addition, Twitter locked President Donald Trump out of his account for "12 hours" on Wednesday over the video and several other tweets, demanding that he delete tweets that violated the company’s policies.\nTwitter swiftly moved on Wednesday to block the ability to reply, like, or retweet the president's video due to "a risk of violence," threatening to lock Trump out of his account permanently if he persisted in violating Twitter rules.\nMeanwhile, Facebook went one step further, removing Trump's video from its platforms and suspending his accounts. On Thursday, Facebook announced that Trump’s Facebook and Instagram accounts will remain locked indefinitely.\n"The shocking events of the last 24 hours clearly demonstrate that President Donald Trump intends to use his remaining time in office to undermine the peaceful and lawful transition of power to his elected successor, Joe Biden," Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a statement Thursday morning.\nZuckerberg said Facebook has, for years, allowed Trump to use its platform consistent with its rules, but has removed content or labeled posts that violate its policy.}}
{{The attack on the U.S. Capitol by President Donald Trump supporters may have political implications for both parties moving forward.\nCynthia Bryant, former executive director of the Californian Republican Party, and Democratic analyst Hilary Mclean join FOX40 to share their thoughts on the aftermath and where both parties go from here.}}
{{Massive voter turnout has led Democratic nominee Joe Biden to receive more votes for president than any other candidate in US history with 70million counted so far, breaking Barack Obama‘s 2008 popular vote record.\nThe former Vice President racked up more than 70,470,044 votes as of Wednesday at 3.20pm EST, surpassing Obama’s popular vote total of 69.5million.\nTrump is also making major headway with more than 67million votes counted, surpassing his 2016 popular vote of 62.9million compared to Hillary Clinton’s 65.8million.\nFiveThirtyEight’s Nate Silver predicts that Biden will get around 52 percent of the popular vote with a turnout of about 80million votes with Trump forecast to pull in 73 to 75million votes.\nJoe Biden racked up more than 70million votes as of Wednesday afternoon, surpassing Obama’s 2008 popular vote record of 69.5million. Trump is also making major headway with more than 67million votes counted, surpassing his 2016 popular vote of 62.9million\nBiden has received now more votes for president than any other candidate in US election history. Biden pictured during his election night rally in the early hours of Wednesday\nTrump is also projected, along with Biden, to break records and claim to the top two popular vote totals in US history\nHe said both candidates will likely claim the top two popular vote totals in US history, with both surpassing Obama in 2008.\nThe 2020 presidential election is expected to have the highest voter turnout since 1908, when 65 percent of eligible Americans voted.\nSo far the country’s on track to tally 160million votes this year, an eligible turnout rate of about 67 percent.\nOn Wednesday Biden’s campaign manger declared that he would be elected as the next president after he gained lead in several key swing states.\n‘I want to share with all of you that Joe Biden is on track to win this election and he will be the next president of the United States,’ Jen O’Malley Dillon said during a briefing with reporters Wednesday after Tuesday’s intense election night left no clear winner.\nFiveThirtyEight’s Nate Silver predicts that Biden will get around 52 percent of the popular vote with a turnout of about 80million votes with Trump forecast to pull in 73 to 75million votes\nBack in 2008 Obama made history by having the greatest popular vote count in a US presidential election with 69.5 million votes\n‘We believe we are on a clear path to victory by this afternoon. We expect that the vice president will have leads in states that put him over 270 electoral votes,’ she said.\nShe took aim at Trump who demanded ballots stopped being counted even as absentee ballots are still being tallied across the country as many voters opted to mail in their ballots due to the pandemic.\nSTATES STILL BEING COUNTED Michigan – Reporting 99% Biden – 49.59% Trump – 48.88% Georgia – Reporting 94% Trump 50.48% Biden 48.30% Nevada – Reporting 67% Trump 49.23% Biden 48.59% North Carolina – Reporting 94% Trump 50.09% Biden 48.69% Pennsylvania – Reporting 64% Trump 54.48% Biden 44.35\n‘Let’s be extremely clear about something: If Donald Trump got his wish and we stopped counting ballots right now, Vice President Joe Biden would be the next president of the United States,’ O’Malley Dillon said.\nThe briefing took place after the Trump campaign made a similar claim.\n‘If we count all legal ballots, the president wins,’ Trump campaign manager Bill Stepien said.\nAs of Wednesday Biden was edging nearer to election victory after winning the state of Wisconsin and a lead in Michigan with just one percent of the vote there left to count, which has prompted President Trump to claim election fraud, demand recounts and even file lawsuits to try to stop votes from being counted.\nBiden won Wisconsin with 20,000 votes. The only votes that are not yet counted are from a small town that is home to 300 people, the state’s Election Commission Administrator Meagan Wolfe said on Wednesday afternoon, giving him a 0.6 % victory with 1.63million votes over Trump’s 1.609million.\nWisconsin gives Biden another 10 electoral college votes and Michigan, which is also in his sights, would bring him another 16.\nIf he wins Michigan today, and Nevada tomorrow – as Democrats have done in every presidential election since 2004 albeit on a small margin – he will have reached the 270 electoral college votes he needs to claim the White House.\nEqually if he wins Michigan today and either North Carolina or Georgia today, he will also have won.\nBiden is leading in Michigan by 37,000 votes but there are still 55,000 votes to count, meaning it is still very much in play despite 99 percent of the vote having been counted.\nTrump is leading by some 70,000 votes in Georgia, where another 250,000 votes still have to be counted, and 76,000 votes in North Carolina 348,000 more votes have to be counted, but even if he wins all three, he will not have enough to claim a clean victory.\nThe President is also winning by 9.3% – nearly 400,000 votes – in Pennsylvania, where a result is not expected until Friday and where more than 2million votes remain uncounted.}}
{{The Israel Defence Forces’ relations with the Lebanese political and militant group are extremely hostile, with the two fighting numerous skirmishes and engaging in a full-scale 34-day long war in 2006.\nIsraeli Defence Minister and alternative Prime Minister Benny Gantz has taken aim at Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah, claiming that his organization poses a threat to Lebanon and its population.\n“While Nasrallah is our biggest enemy from the north, he is Lebanon’s biggest problem,” Gantz said, speaking to the Knesset’s foreign affairs and defence committee on Monday.\n“We saw the disaster that happened in Lebanon. The State of Israel offered help and assistance,” he added, referring to the August 4 Beirut port blast. “Just think about what would happen if that would be repeated with Iranian weapons in Lebanese villages. We are dealing with enemies who are operating and storing weapons in a civilian environment. If we have no choice but to fight, it might have harsh implications,” the minister warned.\n“The fact is that in Lebanon there are homes with a guest room and a missile room will make Lebanese society pay a heavy price,” Gantz specified.\nHezbollah has denied that it stores weapons in civilian areas, and categorically rejected allegations that it had any arms at the Beirut port on Friday.\nIn his discussion with committee members, the defence minister also emphasized that Israel must continue to work with its allies to “harm Iran and affect what goes on in Iran,” and to prevent the Islamic Republic from its alleged efforts to acquire nuclear weapons.\nGantz’ remarks come less than a week after his warning to Hezbollah and Nasrallah personally about crossing Israeli ‘red lines’.\n“If Nasrallah thinks to break the red lines, he will receive a painful response that will remind him of the high readiness of the State of Israel and will endanger the State of Lebanon,” he said, with his comments published several hours before the powerful ammonium nitrate blast rocked Beirut’s port.\nGantz’s warning followed an announcement on July 28 by the Israeli military that it had “thwarted a sabotage operation” along the border which saw Hezbollah militia members attempting to infiltrate into Israel. Hezbollah denied the allegations, suggesting they were “an attempt to invent fake victories.”\nGantz and Nasrallah are known to have a personal antagonism between them, and have repeatedly traded personal barbs in recent months and years. In May, the Hezbollah leader mocked the retired officer, alleging that Gantz was “vastly experienced in the disappointments of south Lebanon,” referring to Gantz’s service as commander of the IDF’s Lebanon Liason Unit until Israel’s withdrawal from the area in May 2000. In 2019, Gantz warned that if Hezbollah attempted to attack Israel with rockets, Nasrallah “won’t be able to make it back to [his] bunker” to survive the military's response.}}
{{Breaking\nRiot at US Capitol live: 'A very dangerous person' - Pelosi calls for Trump's immediate removal after 'seditious act'\nUS riot latest: Four dead after Trump supporters storm Capitol; calls for president to be removed immediately.}}
{{Protests have erupted in cities across the country in the wake of the death of George Floyd and a Minneapolis police officer has been arrested and charged with third-degree murder. This issue of police violence against African Americans hits home for many NFL players and is the reason for Colin Kaepernick and former Panthers safety Eric Reid’s kneeling protests.\nReid was the most outspoken individual on the team but he’s no longer on the roster after being released in March. Other Carolina players are talking about Floyd and larger issues of social justice, though.\nHere’s a roundup of what they’ve been tweeting.\nLB Shaq Thompson\nWe’ve got to rebuild. Society doesn’t protect us as it stands now…we can make the changes we want to see 🙏🏾 — Shaq Thompson (@ShaqThompson_7) May 29, 2020\nFS Tre Boston\nThere’s not enough characters to explain how I’ve felt over the last few days. It’s draining, body after body, week after week, we die they get fired? How does that work? Who will protect us from the ones who aren’t “Protecting & Serving” us as a community! #WeJustAskForJustice — Tre Boston (@TreBos10) May 29, 2020\nWR Robby Anderson\nI could have lost my life on a few occasions to the police handling situations wrong. By the grace of God Um still here 🙏🏽 Sad to see our people are still losing their lives to the bullshit Shit crazy pray it changes — Robby Anderson (@chosen1ra) May 30, 2020\nCB Troy Pride Jr.\nOL Branden Bowen\nSay it louder for the people in the back🗣 https://t.co/ZNZm9AF2Ve — Branden Bowen (@BrandenBowen) May 29, 2020\nTE Cam Sutton\n3rd degree because in Minnesota it’s “legal” to use knee to a person neck for a use of force(crazy).He wouldn’t get convicted on 1st because of that law. They’re trying their best to make sure he does get convicted. It makes sense and I hope justice is served!! #BlackLivesMatter — Cam Sutton (@Camdocious_) May 29, 2020\nFormer WR Torrey Smith\nMake sure you register to vote. If you don’t vote and have the ability to you can’t complain. It’s the one way you can for sure make a difference. Don’t fall for the “My vote doesn’t count” crap. If it didn’t matter people wouldn’t try to take it away. — Torrey Smith (@TorreySmithWR) May 30, 2020\nFormer DE Julius Peppers\nA lot of our elected officials are being exposed for poor leadership and lacking morality. Nobody wants to hold their peers accountable because everybody is scared to lose their privileges. — Julius Peppers (@juliuspeppers_) May 29, 2020}}
{{By Harriet Alexander For Dailymail.com\nPublished: 23:05 EST, 4 November 2020 | Updated: 01:35 EST, 5 November 2020\nJoe Biden and Kamala Harris on Wednesday unveiled their presidential transition website, despite there being no winner of Tuesday’s vote.\nThe website, buildbackbetter.com, is designed to keep people informed of what Biden and Harris – if they win – will do in the weeks leading up to inauguration on January 20.\n‘The American people will determine who will serve as the next President of the United States. Votes are still being counted in several states around the country,’ the website states, beneath a photo of Biden, pen in hand, looking thoughtful.\n‘The crises facing the country are severe — from a pandemic to an economic recession, climate change to racial injustice — and the transition team will continue preparing at full speed so that the Biden-Harris Administration can hit the ground running on Day One.’\nThe Biden campaign launched their transition website on Wednesday\nBiden and Harris, pictured on Wednesday afternoon, are attempting to project authority\nThe website was being seen as an attempt to project authority and confidence, at an uncertain time.\nOne Twitter user decided the move was was ‘tantamount to declaring victory’ and should be taken as a sign that the election ‘was a wrap hours ago’.\n‘IT’S HAPPENING!!!!!!!!!! BIDEN-HARRIS TRANSITION WEBSITE IS UP!!!’ said another.\nBiden has made it clear that, on day one, he will rejoin the Paris climate change agreement, and begin implementing his plan to bring the coronavirus pandemic under control.\nEven before election day speculation was growing as to who would feature in a Biden cabinet.\nAmong the suggestions were Delaware senator Chris Coons for secretary of state, and either Preet Bhrarara, the former attorney for the Southern District of New York, or Andrew Cuomo, the governor of New York, to head up the justice department.\nIn a bid to have as broad an appeal as possible, Biden was thought to be reaching out to some Republicans – Jeff Flake of Arizona, of former Ohio governor John Kasich.\nElizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders were in a complicated position, given their current senate seats could be filled by a Republican, given that in both their states – Massachusetts and Vermont – the governor appoints a replacement, and the governors of both states were Republican.\nThe speculation all seemed premature, however, given the state of play on Wednesday night.\nWith key states of Pennsylvania, Nevada, Georgia and North Carolina yet to be called, and Arizona’s early call for Biden looking increasingly shaky, the election was far from over.}}
{{UPDATE: A verdict has been reached. Watch here live for the announcement.\nEARLIER COVERAGE CONTINUES BELOW:\nThe murder case against former Officer Derek Chauvin in the death of George Floyd went to the jury Monday in a city on edge against another round of unrest like the one that erupted last year over the harrowing video of Chauvin with his knee on the Black man’s neck.\nThe jury of six white people and six people who are Black or multiracial began deliberating after nearly a full day of closing arguments in which prosecutors argued that Chauvin squeezed the life out of Floyd last May in a way that even a child knew was wrong.\nThe defense contended that the now-fired white officer acted reasonably and that the 46-year-old Floyd died of a heart condition and illegal drug use.\nThe jurors deliberated about four hours before retiring for the night to the hotel where they are being sequestered for this final phase of the trial. They were due to resume Tuesday morning.\nAfter closing arguments were done, Judge Peter Cahill rejected a defense request for a mistrial based in part on comments from California Rep. Maxine Waters, who said “we’ve got to get more confrontational” if Chauvin isn’t convicted of murder.\nThe judge told Chauvin’s attorney: “Congresswoman Waters may have given you something on appeal that may result in this whole trial being overturned.” He called her comments “abhorrent” and “disrespectful to the rule of law and to the judicial branch.”\nChauvin, 45, is charged with second-degree murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter, all of which require the jury to conclude that his actions were a “substantial causal factor” in Floyd’s death and that his use of force was unreasonable.\nThe most serious charge carries up to 40 years in prison.\n“Use your common sense. Believe your eyes. What you saw, you saw,” prosecutor Steve Schleicher said in closing arguments, referring to the bystander video of Floyd pinned to the pavement with Chauvin’s knee on or close to his neck for up to 9 minutes, 29 seconds, as onlookers yelled at the officer to get off.\nChauvin attorney Eric Nelson countered by arguing that Chauvin did what any reasonable police officer would have done after finding himself in a “dynamic” and “fluid” situation involving a large man struggling with three officers.\nAs Nelson began speaking, the now-fired Chauvin removed his COVID-19 mask in front of the jury for one of the very few times during the trial.\nWith the case drawing to a close, some stores were boarded up in Minneapolis. The courthouse was ringed with concrete barriers and razor wire, and National Guard troops were on patrol. Floyd’s death set off protests last spring in the city and across the U.S. that sometimes turned violent.\nThe city has also been on edge in recent days over the deadly police shooting of a 20-year-old Black man, Daunte Wright, in a nearby suburb on April 11.\nAbout 300 protesters marched in the streets outside the courthouse shortly after the jury got the case, lining up behind a banner reading, “Justice 4 George Floyd & all stolen lives. The world is watching.”\nProsecutor Jerry Blackwell had the final word Monday, offering the state’s rebuttal argument. The prosecutor, who is Black, said the questions about the use of force and cause of death are “so simple that a child can understand it.”\n“In fact, a child did understand it, when the 9-year-old girl said, ‘Get off of him,’” Blackwell said, referring to a young witness who objected to what she saw. “That’s how simple it was. `Get off of him.’ Common sense.”\nUnder the law, police have certain latitude to use force, and their actions are supposed to be judged according to what a “reasonable officer” in the same situation would have done.\nNelson noted that officers who first went to the corner store where Floyd allegedly passed a counterfeit $20 bill were struggling with Floyd when Chauvin arrived as backup. The defense attorney also pointed out that the first two officers on the scene were rookies and that police had been told that Floyd might be on drugs.\n“A reasonable police officer understands the intensity of the struggle,” Nelson said, noting that Chauvin’s body camera and badge were knocked off his chest.\nNelson also showed the jury pictures of pills found in Floyd’s SUV and pill remnants discovered in the squad car. Fentanyl and methamphetamine were found in Floyd’s system.\nThe defense attorney said the failure of the prosecution to acknowledge that medical problems or drugs played a role “defies medical science and it defies common sense and reason.”\nDuring the prosecution’s argument, Schleicher replayed portions of the bystander video and other footage as he dismissed certain defense theories about Floyd’s death as “nonsense.” He said Chauvin killed Floyd by constricting his breathing.\nSchleicher rejected the drug overdose argument, as well as the contention that police were distracted by hostile onlookers, that Floyd had “superhuman” strength from a state of agitation known as excited delirium, and that he suffered possible carbon monoxide poisoning from auto exhaust.\nThe prosecutor sarcastically referred to the idea that it was heart disease that killed Floyd as an “amazing coincidence.”\n“Is that common sense or is that nonsense?” Schleicher asked the jury.\nBlackwell, his fellow prosecutor, likewise rejected the defense theory that Floyd died because of an enlarged heart: “The truth of the matter is that the reason George Floyd is dead is because Mr. Chauvin’s heart was too small.”\nEarlier, Schleicher described how Chauvin ignored Floyd’s cries and continued to kneel on him well after he stopped breathing and had no pulse. Chauvin was “on top of him for 9 minutes and 29 seconds and he had to know,” Schleicher said. “He had to know.”\nHe said Chauvin heard Floyd, “but he just didn’t listen.”\nThe prosecutor said Floyd was “not a threat to anyone” and was not trying to escape when he struggled with officers but instead was terrified of being put into the tiny backseat of the squad car.\nHe said a reasonable officer with Chauvin’s training and experience — he was a 19-year Minneapolis police veteran — should have sized up the situation accurately.\nChauvin, wearing a light gray suit with a blue shirt and blue tie, showed little expression as he watched himself and the other officers pinning Floyd to the ground on bodycam video played by his attorney. He cocked his head to the side and occasionally leaned forward to write on a notepad.\nAn unidentified woman occupied the single seat set aside in the pandemic-spaced courtroom for a Chauvin supporter.\nFloyd’s brother Philonise represented the family in court, as he often has during the trial.\nSchleicher also noted that Chauvin was required to use his training to provide medical care to Floyd but ignored bystanders, rebuffed help from an off-duty paramedic and rejected a suggestion from another officer to roll Floyd onto his side.\n“He could have listened to the bystanders. He could have listened to fellow officers. He could have listened to his own training,” Schleicher said. “He knew better. He just didn’t do better.”}}
{{Image copyright Getty Images\nHealth Secretary Matt Hancock has urged people not to breach lockdown rules to take part in mass demonstrations following the death of George Floyd.\nHe told the Downing Street briefing he was "appalled" at the African American man's death, but that coronavirus remains "a real threat".\nBlack Lives Matter protests are planned in towns and cities across the UK this weekend.\nA senior Met Police officer earlier warned such gatherings were "unlawful".\nProtests began in the US after a video showed Mr Floyd, 46, being arrested on 25 May in Minneapolis.\nFootage showed Mr Floyd gasping that he could not breathe during the arrest by four officers. They have since been charged over the death which sparked days of protest in the US and Black Lives Matter demonstrations across the world.\n'Stick to rules'\nMr Hancock said: "Like so many, I am appalled by the death of George Floyd and I understand why people are deeply upset, but we are still facing a health crisis and coronavirus remains a real threat.\n"The reason that it is vital that people stick to the rules this weekend is to protect themselves and their family from this horrific disease.\n"So please, for the safety of your loved ones, do not attend large gatherings, including demonstrations of more than six people."\nDemonstrations have been taking place throughout the week to protest about the treatment of Mr Floyd.\nThousands attended a march through London on Wednesday, while others have taken place around the UK, including in Birmingham.\nMedia playback is unsupported on your device Media caption John Boyega gives emotional protest speech: "Black men, it starts with you"\nThe Metropolitan Police's Deputy Assistant Commissioner, Laurence Taylor, told the BBC the "health protection regulations are really clear that it is unlawful."\nBut he added that those who do go out should "observe social distancing".\nDAC Taylor told the Today programme the force "recognise the really strong feelings that people have, but we would urge people not to gather in these large groups".\n"If they do come out, then we would ask them to observe that social distancing [and] think about those around them," he added.\nEarlier on Friday, people got down on one knee for an anti-racism protest in London's Trafalgar Square. They knelt two metres apart, carrying placards condemning racism.\nTaking a knee is a peaceful gesture to protest against police brutality - the action first carried out by NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick during the national anthem at an American Football game in 2016.\nThere are further protests in London set for the weekend, with thousands also expected to attend a demonstration in Bristol.\nWhat do lockdown laws say about protests?\nEngland now has the loosest lockdown in the UK, with no restrictions on going outside. But the rules (officially known as regulations) don't explicitly say anything about whether people can protest or not.\nHowever, regulation seven restricts public gatherings to no more than six people.\nThe law defines a "gathering" as a meeting involving "social interaction with each other, or to undertake any other activity". And so that means, pretty clearly, that a protest is currently illegal along with any other activity that could increase the spread of the virus.\nRead his full analysis here\nScotland's first minister has made similar warnings about mass gatherings.\nNicola Sturgeon said that in other circumstances she may have been planning to join one of the protests herself.\nBut, at the moment, such mass gatherings are "simply not safe" and pose a "real threat to life", she added. Ms Sturgeon has asked people to find safer ways of making their voices heard.\nEvents are planned in Scottish towns and cities including Glasgow, Edinburgh, Aberdeen and Inverness over the weekend.}}
{{WASHINGTON (AP) — The Latest on Congress’ confirmation of Joe Biden as winner of the presidential election (all times local):\n1:45 p.m.\nTransportation Secretary Elaine Chao is resigning effective Monday, becoming the highest ranking member of President Donald Trump’s administration to resign in protest after the pro-Trump insurrection at Capitol.\nIn a statement Thursday, Chao, who is married to Senate GOP leader Mitch McConnell, said the violent attack on the Capitol “has deeply troubled me in a way that I simply cannot set aside.”}}
{{In these and other cases, Slaughter has supported enforcement even as she has joined the FTC's fiercest critics in saying the commission should have acted more swiftly, and decisively, to penalize the tech industry for its missteps. She has called on the watchdog agency to calibrate its punishments better so that harmed web users are made whole - and others in Silicon Valley are deterred from committing similar acts in the future.\nSlaughter takes the reins at the FTC after serving as a Democratic commissioner since 2018. She stands to inherit an agency that in recent years has issued record-breaking penalties against tech companies for jeopardizing their users' privacy - and only last month sued Facebook for violating federal antitrust laws.\nWASHINGTON - President Joe Biden on Thursday appointed Rebecca Kelly Slaughter as the acting chairwoman of the Federal Trade Commission, a move that positions the Washington watchdog agency to take on a more aggressive role in policing Facebook, Google and other tech giants in Silicon Valley.\n"The threats to consumer privacy are growing; they impact our most vulnerable citizens more than most, and they demand new solutions," Slaughter said in a speech in September 2019, that illustrated her views about the agency's broad remit to penalize wrongdoers. "My hope is that the 'near future' brings renewed action on this front across the board: from the FTC, Congress, advocates and industry and I feel both humbled and privileged to get to take part in this effort."\nAdvertisement\nThe appointment reflects the tectonic political shift now underway in Washington, as Democrats, newly in charge of the White House and Congress, prepare to roll back a slew of deregulatory actions implemented under now-former President Donald Trump. Biden and his congressional counterparts over the past year have teased an ambitious digital agenda, particularly in promising to rein in Silicon Valley and rethink the legal protections afforded to tech giants' handling of harmful content online.\nAdvertisement\nBut Slaughter may face early obstacles at the commission, where new vacancies may eventually leave the FTC deadlocked at two Democrats and two Republicans. The stalemate will not totally trap the agency in policy paralysis, but it still may set back some of her most audacious plans at the FTC until Biden nominates additional Democrats, and the party's razor-thin majority in the Senate can confirm them.\nPrivacy watchdogs said they expected Slaughter, a former top aide to now-Senate Majority Leader Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., to try to use all the powers at the commission's disposal to probe the tech industry for potential wrongdoing.\n“She is firmly of the belief there are things the FTC should do today that it is not doing today, and some of their weakness is self-imposed weakness,” said Justin Brookman, the director for consumer privacy and technology policy for Consumer Reports.}}
{{A man captured in several videos and photographs at Wednesday's pro-Trump siege of the U.S. Capitol has been identified in local news reports as 41-year-old Doug Jensen.\nJensen, a Des Moines, Iowa, native, was seen wearing a QAnon T-shirt depicting an eagle and the conspiracy theory motto, "Where we go one, we go all."\nINDIANA WHITE NATIONALIST AT CAPITOL RIOT IDENTIFIED IN PHOTOS\nIn a dramatic video posted by HuffPost's Igor Bobic, Jensen is one of the first in the mob to push past a Capitol police officer and into the building.\nThe Washington, D.C. Metropolitan Police posted a photo of Jensen in a call for information regarding people involved in the invasion.\nJensen has an active presence on social media and his Twitter and Facebook pages show multiple pictures of himself from the day.\n"You like my shirt?" he wrote, referring to the QAnon T-shirt; others replied that the FBI might "like it and come check it out personally."\nAccording to reporting from KCCI-TV, Jensen is a laborer at Forrest & Associate Masonry. Company CEO Richard Felice told the outlet that his firm does not agree with Jensen's conduct.\nJensen didn't immediately respond to a request for comment from Fox News, which reached out via Facebook.\nCLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP\nThe assault resulted in the death of five people, including 42-year-old Capitol Police officer Brian D. Sicknick.\nWashington's Metropolitan Police Department announced Thursday that 70 people had been arrested.}}
{{The United States Transportation Secretary, Elaine Chao, has resigned from the position over Wednesday’s breach of Capitol Hill by supporters of President Donald Trump.\nShe is the first cabinet member to quit the government over the incident, which drew outrage from across the world.\nThe minister, who is the wife of Senate Majority Leader, Mitch McConnell, announced her resignation from the government in a statement on Thursday.\nChao said: “Yesterday, our country experienced a traumatic and avoidable event as supporters of the president stormed the Capitol building following a rally he addressed.\n“As I am sure is the awe with many of you, it has deeply troubled me in a way that I simply cannot set aside.\n“Today, I am announcing my resignation as US Secretary of Transportation, to take effect on January 11, 2021.”\nSeveral White House officials have resigned since armed Trump supporters stormed the building, forcing a lockdown.\nREAD ALSO: Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, freeze Trump’s accounts after Capitol protest\nViolent protests erupted at the Capitol building on Wednesday during Congress leaders’ meeting to ratify the victory of the Democrat candidate, Joe Biden, in last year’s presidential election.\nThe mob struck shortly after Trump addressed protesters at a rally in Washington.\nOn Wednesday night, Stephanie Grisham, Chief of Staff to the US First Lady, Melania Trump, and Sarah Matthews, White House Deputy Press Secretary, resigned.\nEarlier on Thursday, US Deputy National Security Adviser, Matt Pottinger, left the government over the Capitol Hill riot.\nMick Mulvaney, the president’s former acting chief of staff and budget director, also stepped down as special envoy to Northern Ireland on Thursday.\nJoin the conversation\nOpinions}}
{{Among the images burned into our collective memory from Wednesday’s wretchedly historic insurrection is a photo of Josiah Colt hanging off the side of the Senate balcony, after Colt and other right-wing conspiracy theorists stormed the U.S. Capitol.\nNow the Idaho native is begging for forgiveness. In a statement to CBS2 News, Colt attempted to apologize for his action during the violent riot via statement.\n“I recognize my actions that have brought shame upon myself, my family, my friends, and my beautiful country,” the statement reads. “In the moment I thought I was doing the right thing. I realize now that my actions were inappropriate and I beg for forgiveness from America and my home state of Idaho.”\nFollowing the assault on the Capitol, which led to five deaths and dozens of arrests, Colt bragged on his social media accounts about invading the Senate chamber and sitting in Nancy Pelosi’s chair, calling the House Speaker a “traitor” and a “bitch.” He had actually sat in Vice President Mike Pence’s seat.\n"I just got in, I just got into the Capitol Building. I was the first one, I hopped down into the chamber and I was the first on to sit in Nancy Pelosi's [chair], that bitch, she's a traitor, she's treasonous," Colt said on video while running.\n"My intention wasn't to put a stain on our great Country's Democratic process,” Colt said in his statement.\nSince the riot he’s deleted his Instagram, Facebook and Twitter accounts. It's possible that he will face criminal charges as the FBI works to identify and apprehend those involved in the attack. A number of rioters identified have already lost their jobs.}}
{{Washington, DC, wasn’t the only capitol building under siege Wednesday — with clashes reported at major cities across the US.\nAs the world watched in horror at the thousands of President Trump supporters violently storming the Capitol compound, violent protests also broke out in several other major cities, including Los Angeles, Austin, Sacremento, Atlanta and — unsurprisingly — Portland.\nPro-Trump protesters also gathered in numerous state capitols around the country — in some cases even reportedly trying to get inside — forcing many to evacuate and closed early.\nIn the Big Apple, dozens of anti-Trump and Black Lives Matter protesters were chased away by a heavy police presence as they protested outside Trump Tower late Wednesday.\nTwo people were arrested — including a teen who went viral over the summer when she was thrown in an unmarked police van — and seven others issued summonses, the NYPD said.\nIn Portland, home to near-nightly protests, police declared an unlawful assembly as a mob smashed windows and scrawled graffiti on Multnomah County Courthouse, police said.\nAs with Manhattan, the Portland protest was organized by those seemingly disgusted by scenes from DC, with the Oregon city’s violence dubbed “stop the fascist coup,” The Oregonian said.\nBut it was several hundred pro-Trump supporters who were out in force in the state capital, Salem, which was also declared an unlawful assembly, police tweeted at the time.\nAs well as angry claims that the election had been stolen from Trump, the masses also used it as an excuse to again attack Gov. Kate Brown’s COVID-19 regulations, even burning an effigy of her.\nThe anger turned into violence when counter-demonstrators arrived a few hours later, The Oregonian said, shutting down traffic near the state Capitol building.\nThe Salem Reporter captured a video of a clash between the two groups, with shots fired from what appears to be a paintball gun along with a smoke bomb as the two sides fight.\nAnother clip showed a man in a yellow and black jacket — the usual colors of the right-wing Proud Boys — running forward with a baton to beat a number of people.\nThe Oregon State Police said one person was arrested on suspicion of harassment and disorderly conduct.\nThe Oregonian identified him as David Willis, 43, saying he is a frequent figure at right-wing protests. Cody Melby, 39, was also arrested and charged with trespassing while in possession of a firearm after trying to get into the state capitol, the report said.\nIn Los Angeles, videos showed fistfights between rival groups of protesters being stopped by cops as a crowd of about 200 gathered near Los Angeles Police Department headquarters, the L.A. Times said of what was also declared an unlawful assembly.\nMany shouted “Do your job!” at officers, while one woman reportedly yelled, “Remember there are thousands upon thousands of patriots willing to die for our freedoms. … You need to decide which side you’re on.”\nThe LAPD said six people had been arrested — three for carrying unpermitted items at a public demonstration, two for failing to disperse and one for resisting or obstructing an officer.\nIn Salt Lake City, many state workers went home early as about 400 people gathered outside, with signs reading “Stop the steal!” and “Trump won!”\nOfficials said it was mostly peaceful, although the Salt Lake Tribune said one of its photographers was peppered sprayed in the face by a man who told him, “Look at you in your f—ing mask, you p—y.”\nA man waves a Trump flag at a rally in Salt Lake City yesterday. Daniel Carde/ZUMA Wire\nSeveral hundred Trump supporters also staged a “Stop the Steal” rally at the Arizona state Capitol in Phoenix, cheering and jeering while exhibiting a guillotine.\nWashington Gov. Jay Inslee and his family were moved to a secure location after protesters broke into the grounds of the governor’s mansion in Olympia, according to the state police.\n“Whose house — our house!” chanted protesters, some of who were armed, as one planted a big red and white sign that declared, “Trump won 2020,” the Seattle Times said.\nInslee later insisted, “Those acts of intimidation will not succeed in any way, shape or form.”\nProtesters entered the Kansas statehouse in Topeka and assembled inside the first floor of the Capitol rotunda, though they remained orderly, television station KSNT reported. State police later said the demonstrators had obtained a permit in advance.\nA Washington State Trooper tries to hold back supporters of President Trump outside the Governor’s Mansion in Olympia, Washington, yesterday. Alan Berner/The Seattle Times via AP\nIn Denver, the Colorado capital, Mayor Michael Hancock instructed city agencies to close early “out of an abundance of caution” after about 700 demonstrators gathered at the statehouse.\nIn Georgia, a major courthouse complex and two other government buildings in Atlanta were ordered closed due to protests near the statehouse.\nAmong those disrupted were aides to Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, the Republican election official pressured by Trump in a weekend telephone call to “find” enough additional votes for Trump to win the state.\nStaff left their offices early out of an abundance of caution, but Raffensperger was not there, spokesman Walter Jones.\nLead by a Georgia State Trooper, Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, center, exits the Georgia State Capitol building after hearing reports of threats yesterday. Alyssa Pointer/Atlanta Journal-Constitution via AP\nIn Sacramento, California, several people were arrested for allegedly carrying pepper spray and fights broke out between two groups outside the state capitol, KCRA reported.\n“Some physical altercations between two groups of demonstrators have been reported. Officers remain in the area and are attempting to keep the groups separate,” the Sacramento Police Department tweeted.\nThe outlet reported many groups, including the far-right group the “Proud Boys” were in attendance.\nIn St. Paul, Minnesota, around 500 Trump supporters, wearing red “MAGA” hats and carrying Trump flags, protested outside the State Capitol before making their way to Gov. Tim Walz’s mansion, the Star Tribune.\nOfficers watch protesters during a rally in support of President Donald Trump on the steps of the Minnesota State Capitol yesterday. Richard Tsong-Taatarii/Star Tribune via AP\n“Let’s go raise some hell! Let’s make him uncomfortable,” one protestor chanted outside the Capitol, according to FOX9.\nMedia reported rallies in other state capitals including Little Rock, Arkansas; Tallahassee, Florida; Madison, Wisconsin; Columbia, South Carolina; and Santa Fe, New Mexico.\nWith Post wires}}
{{On November 3rd, America stands on the precipice of a choice between liberty and tyranny. Americans must reject Joe Biden as their next president if they want America to remain America.\nA vote for Joe Biden is a vote for a man who believes America was never that good.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for energy dependency once again. The beneficiaries will be Iran, Russia, and Red China.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for the end of fracking and the loss of millions of jobs.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for continuous lockdowns and the economic collapse of our country.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for mob rule instead of law and order.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for defunding the police.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for a return to the disastrous Iranian nuclear deal.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for moving our American Embassy back from Jerusalem to Tel Aviv.\nA vote for Biden is a return to funding the PLO and a return of the P.A. Authority office in New York.\nA vote for Biden is a return to appeasing the Mullahs in Iran and aiding Communist dictators throughout the world.\nA vote for Biden is a vote against the state of Israel and a vote for the return of the anti-Semitic policies that governed the Obama administration.\nA vote for Biden is a vote to stand with the Jew haters in Congress, Ilhan Omar, Rashida Tlaib, AOC, and Ayanna Pressley.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for Chinese hegemony and global dominance. The Red Chinese are working against the election of President Trump.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for Cultural Marxism and continuous Marxist indoctrination in our schools and universities.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for the Red Chinese proxies, Antifa and Black Lives Matter, to continue their anarchy on American streets.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for the continuation of racial and class warfare stoked by identity politics.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for stacking the Supreme Court.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for adding two additional states, Puerto Rico and D.C.; thus, forever ensuring a Democrat Congressional majority as in California and ending the two party system.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for higher taxes.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for the Green New Deal.\nA vote for Biden is the end of Capitalism and the free market.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for a return to the Paris Climate Accords.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for the end of fossil fuel and life as we know it.\nA vote for Biden will see an increase in fuel prices, electricity, and the cost of living.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for an authoritative state and the expansion of the federal government.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for continuous censorship by Big Tech.\nA vote for Biden is a vote to erase our First Amendment.\nA vote for Biden is a vote to erase our Second Amendment. He and Kamala Harris have stated their support for gun confiscation.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for infanticide where abortions of full term babies will be permissible.\nA vote for Biden is a vote to erase the suburbs where the federal government will have control of local zoning.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for a man who along with his son Hunter are under investigation by the FBI for money laundering and selling access to his office.\nA vote for Biden is a vote for a known plagiarizer and liar.\nA vote for Biden is a vote against character.\nA vote for Joe Biden is a vote for Socialism and the Socialist policies of Bernie Sanders adopted by the Democrat Party Platform.}}
{{The murder of George Floyd at the hands of the Minneapolis police has sparked several days of protests, including the burning of a police precinct on Thursday night.\nIn solidarity with protestors, union bus drivers in Minneapolis signed a petition and refused to transport police officers and arrested protestors to jail on Thursday, PayDay Report first reported and independently confirmed by Motherboard. At one bus garage in downtown Minneapolis on Thursday evening, some workers refused to drive buses that were being dispatched to transport police officers.\n“We are willing to do what we can to ensure our labor is not used to help the Minneapolis Police Department shut down calls for justice,” the petition reads. “For example, I am a bus driver with ATU 1005, and I urged people to call MetroTransit and the Governor the second I heard our buses and members were being organized to make mass arrests hours before the protests escalated.”\nOn Thursday, the city of Minneapolis shut down its light rail and bus services out of concern for employee and rider safety.\nMore than 400 union workers, including Minneapolis postal workers, nurses, teachers, and hotel workers have signed the petition posted on the Facebook group Union Members for #JusticeForGeorgeFloyd pledging not to aid the policing of the protests with their labor, according to Adam Birch, a Minneapolis bus driver who wrote the petition.\n“I was on my route on Wednesday evening and there was a message that came over transit control asking for a bus to transport police officers,” Birch told Motherboard. “I interpreted this as Minneapolis police department preparing for mass arrests so when I had a moment on a layover, I created a post on Facebook saying that I’m a metro transit bus driver, and I don’t feel comfortable assisting the Minneapolis police department to make arrests. It got a lot of reaction, which was surprising so I created a petition.”\nSince the release of a video earlier this week showing an officer Derek Chauvin kneeling on Floyd’s neck until he died, unions and workers in Minneapolis, a city with a strong organized labor movement, have condemned the killing. Among them, Minneapolis’s teacher union and the Awood Center, which organizes Amazon warehouse workers in the area, have also issued statements condemning the killing as an act of racism.\n“If we feel if something is unjust, then workers should have the right not to support the situation or provide their services,” Ryan Timlin, president of Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1005, which represents the bus drivers and 2,500 public transportation workers in the Twin Cities, told Motherboard. “This was not a strike."\nMany members of Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1005, which represents 2,500 public transportation workers in the Twin Cities, live in south Minneapolis, where Floyd lived and was killed and where recent protests have taken place.\n“ATU members live with similar fears on a daily basis. ATU members face racism daily. Our members live in and work in neighborhoods where actions like this happen, and where this took place, now watched in horror across the globe,” a press statement from the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1005, said.\n“In ATU, we have a saying: 'NOT ONE MORE' when dealing with driver assaults in some cases have led to members being murdered while doing their job," the union said. "We say 'NOT ONE MORE' execution of a black life by the hands of the police. NOT ONE MORE! JUSTICE FOR GEORGE FLOYD.”\nThe Minneapolis police department, which has a history of misconduct allegations and racist violence, is represented itself by a powerful union. The Minneapolis Police Union has continued to offer “warrior-style training” to any officers that want it, despite the city’s mayor putting a ban on the style of training last year, which was linked to the shooting of Philando Castile in 2016.\nWhen the police shot and killed 32-year-old Castile in Minnesota, the local teacher’s union took action to protest the death of Castile, who was a nutrition services supervisor, and 14-year member of the Teamsters Local 320, which also represents law enforcement officials in the Twin Cities.\nBirch says the Facebook group Union Members for #JusticeForGeorgeFloyd is organizing a coalition of union members to attend a protest in Minneapolis on Saturday.}}
{{Support Local Journalism\nNow, more than ever, the world needs trustworthy reporting—but good journalism isn’t free. Please support us by subscribing or making a contribution.}}
{{Only 26 Republicans in Congress will say with certainty that Joe Biden beat Donald Trump in the election, despite certification of the vote looming, according to a new survey. The revelation prompted Trump to demand their names.\nThe Washington Post surveyed the 249 Republicans in the House and Senate and reported on Saturday that only 25 responded saying Biden had won the presidential election; the report was later updated to 26 after Sen. Deb Fischer (R-Nebraska) referred to “President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris” in an email.\nIt is worth noting, however, that the Post did not receive an answer from over 200 Republicans.\nPresident Trump responded to the report by asking for the names of the Republicans who acknowledged Biden’s likely victory and blasted them as “RINOS,” or ‘Republicans-in-name-only.”\n“I am surprised there are so many. We have just begun to fight. Please send me a list of the 25 RINOS. I read the Fake News Washington Post as little as possible!” the president tweeted in response to the original reported number.\n25, wow! I am surprised there are so many. We have just begun to fight. Please send me a list of the 25 RINOS. I read the Fake News Washington Post as little as possible! https://t.co/cEBM0bYuQ9 — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 5, 2020\nRINOs will NOT be re-elected!!! — Graham Allen (@GrahamAllen_1) December 5, 2020\nKeep doubting and underestimating @realDonaldTrump AT YOUR OWN PERIL! How has that been working out for the media and establishment over the past 4 years?When he tells you that he has the goods ... HE DOES! This isn’t bluster. It’s confirmation & a warning. 🇺🇸 — Murray 🇺🇸 (@Rothbard1776) December 5, 2020\nMany top Republicans have refused to publicly acknowledge any winner of the presidential race until Trump’s various legal battles play out in swing states where he is alleging voter fraud, such as Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Kentucky) and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-California).\nMeanwhile, lesser-known lawmakers like Reps. Fred Upton (R-Michigan) and Patrick J. Toomey (R-Pennsylvania) have put their weight behind Biden’s victory.\nOn the other side of the debate are Reps. Paul A. Gosar (R-Alaska) and Mo Brooks (R-Alabama), both of whom have said with certainty that Trump won the election, but that the results were compromised due to fraud.\nAlso on rt.com Trump lawyer decries Georgia GOP senators for ‘ties to China’ as Obama says runoff results will ‘determine future’ of Biden term\nWhile Biden is the projected winner of the presidential election with over 300 electoral college votes, electors do not actually cast their votes until December 14. Congress then counts the votes by January 6, with inauguration day scheduled for January 20.\nAmid the looming deadlines, Trump’s attorneys continue to overturn votes in swing states like Pennsylvania, and the president has insisted he actually carried victories in states such as Georgia and Michigan.\nTrump critics have taken to social media to use the Post’s report to slam the Republican Party for their loyalty to a seemingly lost cause, even though the majority of lawmakers simply did not answer the Post’s survey.\n“This sort of thing is deeply embarrassing for the GOP,”tweeted outspoken libertarian and Reason editor at large Nick Gillespie.\nThe Republican Party’s devolution to being a post-democracy movement in one survey:Just 25 congressional Republicans acknowledge Biden’s win, Washington Post survey finds https://t.co/6CNxg7yn13 — Joe Scarborough (@JoeNBC) December 5, 2020\nSo far, 25 Republicans on Capitol Hill have acknowledged reality. https://t.co/aTNJSmojlh — Frank Luntz (@FrankLuntz) December 5, 2020\nThink your friends would be interested? Share this story!}}
{{Jan. 6 marked a difficult day for everyone in the United States, and it's been no easy task to try to explain it to kids watching yesterday's horrific events unfold. Which is why everyone's favorite dad Jim Gaffigan's tweet about explaining the Capitol riots to his kids was so spot-on.\nThe comedian and his wife Jeanne are parents to five kids: 15-year-old daughter Marre, 14-year-old son Jack, 11-year-old daughter Katie Louise, 9-year-old son Michael, and 8-year-old son Patrick. Like many parents, Gaffigan found himself in the bizarre position of trying to explain what was going on in Washington, D.C. on Wednesday. When Trump supporters stormed the Capitol building as the U.S. Congress was in the process of confirming President-elect Joe Biden, forcing lawmakers and members of the media to shelter in place while security moved several politicians, like Vice President Mike Pence, to a safer location. Four people ended up dead, as CNN reported, including one woman who was shot in the Capitol building, while others ransacked offices with seemingly little resistance from the police.\nHow do you explain such actions to your kids? If you're Jim Gaffigan, turn off the news and hold your own press conference.\nJim Gaffigan held a press conference for his kids to explain the Capitol coup.\nAs the comedian tweeted, "Like many parents I was forced to hold what felt like a press conference with my children because Republicans lunatics stormed the capitol. Congrats to @FoxNews on finally making it impossible to watch news with our parents and now our children."\nGaffigan went on to clarify in a separate tweet that he doesn't watch Fox News but was attempting to "point out that because of years of rampant @foxnews propaganda we can't watch any news with our parents or our children. (Idiots please respond with your 'What about' crap so I know who to block. Have a nice day.)"\nWhile there are many celebrities who have long made their voices heard in politics, Gaffigan has largely stayed away from making any sort of statement. A devout Catholic who once opened for Pope Francis in Philadelphia and something of a "clean" comic, he has essentially stuck to his stand up routines. Until recently. In August, Gaffigan unleashed a truly epic Twitter rant about President Donald Trump that he has since said in a Facebook post was very "liberating" even if it did make him a target for Trump supporters.\nHe explained in his post that he spoke out about Trump because he didn't feel he had any choice at this point. He spoke out for the future of his children, and grandchildren. And after the events that unravelled on Wednesday, speaking out about what's right for our kids has truly never been more important.}}
{{TRENTON, New Jersey -- Five more New Jersey residents are facing criminal charges for allegedly taking part in the breach of the Capitol building.The U.S. attorney's office in Newark said Friday that one of those charged is Marissa Suarez, who has worked as a correction police officer in Monmouth County since 2019 but resigned after her arrest.Monmouth County Sheriff Shaun Golden confirmed Suarez's resignation and said in an email, "A violation of federal or state law of any kind is unacceptable, particularly from a sworn member of law enforcement whose role is to protect and serve. Actions have consequences and that applies to those who participated in the peaceful protests that resulted in violence at the Capitol."Suarez and Patricia Todisco were scheduled for initial court appearances Friday afternoon, as were Stephanie Hazelton of Medford and Scott Fairlamb of Sussex, according to the U.S. attorney's office.Earlier this week, authorities charged Rasha Abual-Ragheb, who allegedly took pictures of herself inside the Capitol on Jan. 6.Court records didn't list an attorney for Abual-Ragheb, who was arrested on Tuesday. Information about attorneys for the other people charged wasn't immediately available.Hazelton was one of the people who organized a protest outside a gym in Bellmawr last May after Democratic Gov. Phil Murphy issued an executive order closing all gyms due to the COVID-19 pandemic, according to published reports.}}
{{The video will start in 8 Cancel\nNews, views and top stories in your inbox. Don't miss our must-read newsletter Sign up Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email\nShocking footage has emerged that shows the moment a huge explosion rocked Beirut killing at least 25 people and leaving thousands injured.\nThe clip shot by a witness captures an ear-deafening bang followed by a mushroom cloud that erupts in the sky over the Lebanese capital.\nThe explosion was so powerful that it shook the ground causing people to think they were caught up in an earthquake.\nThe blast happened in the port area of the city and sent shockwaves across the area, shattering windows and causing apartment balconies to collapse.\nAccording to some reports the blast was that loud it was heard in Cyprus.\nAt least 10 bodies were taken to hospitals, a security source and a medical source told Reuters.\nThe Lebanese Red Cross said hundreds of people were taken hospitals for treatment.\nWalid Abdo, a 43-year-old school teacher in the neighbourhood of Gemayzeh near Beirut, said: "It was like a nuclear explosion."\nCharbel Haj, who works at the port, said it started as small explosions like firecrackers, then the huge blast erupted and he was thrown off his feet. His clothes were torn.\nLebanon's state news agency NNA and two security sources said the blast happened at warehouses housing explosives while a third claimed there were chemicals stored in the area.\nInitial reports suggest that Warehouse 12 was stockpiling fireworks and multiple forms of chemicals.\nThere are reports of hospitals turning bloodied patients away as they either have no space or have been too badly damaged.\nLebanese President Michel Aoun called for an emergency meeting of the country's Supreme Defence Council, according to the presidency's Twitter account.\nThe governor of Beirut port told Sky News that a team of firefighters at the scene had "disappeared" after the explosion.\nA witness told Reuters: "I saw a fireball and smoke billowing over Beirut. People were screaming and running, bleeding.\n"Balconies were blown off buildings. Glass in high-rise buildings shattered and fell to the street.\nAnother Reuters witness said she saw heavy grey smoke near the port area and then heard an explosion and saw flames of fire and black smoke.\nShe added: "All the downtown area windows are smashed and there are wounded people walking around. It is total chaos."\nLebanon's Internal Security Chief Abbas Ibrahim, touring the port area, said he would not pre-empt investigations.\nThe blast came at a time when Lebanon's economy is facing collapse, hit both by a financial crisis and coronavirus restrictions. Many have lost jobs, while the worth of their savings has evaporated as the currency has plunged in value against the dollar.\nThe result has thrown many into poverty.\nIt also comes amid rising tensions between Israel and the militant Hezbollah group along Lebanon's southern border.\nThe explosion was reminiscent of massive blasts during Lebanon's civil war and took place only three days before a UN-backed tribunal was set to give its verdict in the killing of former prime minister Rafik Hariri in a truck bombing more than 15 years ago.\nThat explosion, with a ton of explosives, was felt miles away, just like Tuesday's explosion.\nAn Israeli government official later said his country "had nothing to do" with the blast.\nIsrael and Lebanon's Hezbollah militant group are bitter enemies, and tensions have been high following a series of recent clashes.\nEarlier on Tuesday, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned Hezbollah that Israel would not hesitate to strike again if it felt it was necessary.\nForeign Secretary Dominic Raab said the UK "is ready to offer help and support" to those affected by the blast in Beirut.\nIn a tweet he wrote: "My thoughts and prayers are with those affected by the devastating explosion in Beirut today.\n"The UK stands in solidarity with the people of Lebanon and is ready to offer help and support, including to those British nationals impacted."}}
{{Money\nStocks have gained about 13% since Election Day as of Tuesday, a day before Joe Biden’s inauguration — marking the the best post-election market performance for a new president since JFK, according to CFRA Research.\nThe S&P 500 rose 8.8% from late 1960 to early 1961 after John F. Kennedy defeated Richard Nixon. The market continued to rally during JFK’s first 100 days in office, rising another 8.9%.\nThe current Biden market surge represents the second time in a row that Wall Street has cheered a new president: Stocks gained more than 6% in the election to inauguration period after President Donald Trump beat Hillary Clinton in 2016. The market gained 5% during Trump’s first 100 days as well.\nBut there’s one major difference: Trump was inheriting an economy that was growing at a stable rate during the long, post-Great Recession recovery. Biden is walking into the Covid-19 economy.\nInvestors seem hopeful that Biden, along with a Democrat-controlled House and Senate, will work with Republicans to quickly pass another stimulus bill.\nThe stimulus expectations, combined with the fact that Americans are starting to receive coronavirus vaccinations, has fueled hopes that the economy — and corporate earnings — will improve later this year.\nOil, banks and small cap stocks getting a bigger Biden boost\nTo that end, the energy and financial sectors have been the best performers since the election. Oil companies should benefit from an improving economy and rising crude prices, while banks often do better when there is increased demand for loans.\nSmall cap stocks have also outperformed the S&P 500, a move that makes sense considering that smaller companies have more exposure to the US economy compared to the large multinational firms that dominate the Dow and S&P 500.\nThe Biden boost is also in stark contrast to how stocks performed the previous two instances a new president was coming into power during tumultuous economic times.\nThe S&P 500 fell more than 6% in late 2000 and early 2001 after George W. Bush defeated Al Gore. That election was contested as well, adding to uncertainty that was already present in the market as a result of the dot-com bubble bursting earlier in 2000.\nAnd stocks plummeted nearly 20% from November 2008 through mid-January 2009 after Biden’s former boss Barack Obama defeated the late John McCain. Investors were still extremely nervous about the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the rash of high profile bank failures at the time.\nBut experts say investors need to realize that market performance between the election and the inauguration is not necessarily a harbinger of things to come for the rest of the year.\nCFRA Research chief investment strategist Sam Stovall noted in the report that “the S&P 500 is overdue for a digestion of gains that could push the index value below its 2020 closing level.”\nIn other words, the rest of the year might be bumpy. But any downturns could be brief: Stovall also predicted that any market pullbacks in 2021 will be “set early enough in the year to allow for time to recoup all losses and go on to set even higher highs.”}}
{{https://www.dailywire.com/news/gilmore-girls-actor-says-he-wasnt-at-capitol-riot-after-rumors-circulate\nShortly after the Capitol riot on January 6, rumors apparently circulated that former “Gilmore Girls’ actor David Sutcliffe, one of the few non-left-leaning actors in Hollywood, participated in the mob.\nSutcliffe on Sunday was the one to claim existence of the rumors, saying on Twitter that he was not one of the people who “stormed the capital [sic].” Sutcliffe made the comment while quote-tweeting a video of someone who did enter the Capitol and filmed himself smoking weed inside. Sutcliffe added that he “would have been proud to share a smoke with this great Patriot!”\nThere are rumors circulating that I “stormed the capital.” 🤔 Not true – though I would have been proud to share a smoke with this great Patriot! https://t.co/SOG70tYIt0 — David Sutcliffe (@SutcliffeDavid) January 16, 2021\nIt was not clear to many, it seems, that Sutcliffe was joking, causing numerous responses that opened up the old debates over whether his “Gilmore Girls” character Christopher was good enough for main character Lorelai. Things were a little vicious.\nOne random account asked if it was possible Sutcliffe was kidding about the whole thing, a tweet the actor quoted and added the words “I feel seen.” On Tuesday, Sutcliffe tweeted that his “only regret is misspelling Capitol.”\nSutcliffe isn’t as outspoke about his political beliefs as some actors on the Right or the Left, but he does appear less liberal than most, retweeting others who have been critical of current Leftist priorities like critical race theory and demonizing people for their political beliefs.\nSutcliffe is not as outspoken as, say, former “Hercules” actor Kevin Sorbo, who has publicly supported former President Donald Trump and mocked coronavirus restrictions in California and Pennsylvania. Sorbo in November responded to a new curfew put in place by Gov. Gavin Newsom (D-CA), saying “I almost got Covid back in august, thankfully I made it back to my house at 9:58 PM, right before the 10 PM curfew.”\n“If the first lockdown worked, why do we need a second one? If the first lockdown didn’t work, why would we do a second one? Just asking,” the actor added later. Sorbo also questioned Pennsylvania’s mask mandate.\n“So in Pennsylvania you have to wear a mask inside your own home. How exactly will they enforce that? I smell the stench of an overreaching government,” he said.\nMost conservatives in Hollywood try to stay out of politics to avoid discrimination by the uber Left-leaning industry. Patricia Heaton, an openly conservative and religious actress, has said she had been denied parts for her political beliefs. In 2017, actress Julienne Davis, who had a small role in “Eyes Wide Shut,” wrote an op-ed for Fox News where she “came out” as a conservative:\nAn acquaintance had asked me to write for a right-of-center political magazine. I realized I would be outing myself by doing it, but I ended up writing a few dozen articles with a right-leaning libertarian slant that were well received. Sadly, the magazine closed and I was faced with two options. Option 1: I could start apologizing to all my Hollywood liberal friends and associates who’d been shocked by my writing and tell them: “I didn’t really mean it … it was a paid gig and I was simply doing it for the work.” Option 2: I could have the courage of my convictions and continue down the conservative path.\nThe Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.\nShare this: Twitter\nFacebook}}
{{WASHINGTON (AP) — Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell opened the Senate on Tuesday saying the pro-Trump mob that stormed the Capitol was “fed lies” by the president and others in the deadly riot to overturn Democrat Joe Biden election.\nMcConnell’s remarks are his most severe and public rebuke of outgoing President Donald Trump. The Republican leader vowed a “safe and successful” inauguration of Biden on Wednesday at the Capitol, which is under extremely tight security.\n“The mob was fed lies,” McConnell said. “They were provoked by the president and other powerful people, and they tried to use fear and violence to stop a specific proceeding of branch of the federal government.”\nMcConnell said after Biden’s inauguration on the Capitol’s West Front — what he noted former President George H.W. Bush has called “democracy’s front porch” — “We’ll move forward.”\nTrump’s last full day in office Tuesday is also senators’ first day back since the deadly Capitol siege, an unparalleled time of transition as the Senate presses ahead to his impeachment trial and starts confirmation hearings on President-elect Joe Biden’s Cabinet.\nThree new Democratic senators-elect are set to be sworn into office Wednesday shortly after Biden’s inauguration at the Capitol, which is under extreme security since the bloody pro-Trump riot. The new senators’ arrival will give the Democrats the most slim majority, a 50-50 divided Senate chamber, with the new vice president, Kamala Harris, swearing them in and serving as an eventual tie-breaking vote.\nSenate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer are set to confer Tuesday about the arrangements ahead, according to a person familiar with the planning and granted anonymity to discuss it.\nThe start of the new session of Congress will force senators to come to terms with the post-Trump era, a transfer of power like almost none other in the nation’s history. Senators are returning to a Capitol shattered from the riot, but also a Senate ground to a halt by the lawmakers’ own extreme partisanship.\nRepublican senators, in particular, face a daunting choice of whether to convict Trump of inciting the insurrection, the first impeachment trial of a president no longer in office, in a break with the defeated president who continues to hold great sway over the party but whose future is uncertain. Senators are also being asked to start confirming Biden’s Cabinet nominees and consider passage of a sweeping new $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief bill.\nIn opening remarks at his confirmation hearing, Biden’s nominee for secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Alejandro Mayorkas, vowed to get to the bottom of the “horrifying” attack on the Capitol.\nMayorkas told the Senate Homeland Security Committee that if confirmed he would do everything possible to ensure “the desecration of the building that stands as one of the three pillars of our democracy, and the terror felt by you, your colleagues, staff, and everyone present, will not happen again.”\nFive of Biden’s nominees are set for hearings Tuesday as the Senate prepares for swift confirmation of some as soon as the president-elect takes office, as is often done on Inauguration Day, particularly for the White House’s national security team.\nBiden wants the Senate to toggle between confirming his nominees, considering COVID relief and holding Trump accountable with the impeachment trial, a tall order for an institution that typically runs more slowly and with bitter confrontations.\nTrump’s impeachment is forcing Republican senators to re-evaluate their relationship with the outgoing president who is charged with inciting a mob of supporters to storm the Capitol as Congress was counting the Electoral College votes to confirm Biden’s election. A protester died during the riot and a police officer died later of injuries; three other people involved died of medical emergencies.\nThe House impeached Trump last week on a sole charge, incitement of insurrection, making him the only president to be twice impeached. He had been impeached in 2019 over relations with Ukraine and was acquitted in 2020 by the Senate.\nSchumer, who is poised to become the majority leader, and McConnell are set to meet Tuesday to discuss the power-sharing agreement and schedule ahead — for Trump’s trial, confirming Biden’s nominees and consideration of the incoming president’s $1.9 trillion COVID relief package.\nThree Democratic senators, Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff of Georgia, and Alex Padilla of California, are to be sworn into office Wednesday, according to the person granted anonymity to discuss planning.\nWarnock and Ossoff defeated Republican incumbents in this month’s runoff elections. Georgia’s secretary of state is expected to certify the election results Tuesday. Padilla was tapped by California’s governor to fill the remainder of Harris’ Senate term.\nThe Senate leaders also must negotiate a power-sharing agreement for the Senate that was last split so narrowly nearly 20 years ago, as they divvy up committee assignments and other resources.}}
{{Weather Alert\n...WIND GUSTS OF 25-35 MPH ARE POSSIBLE TODAY... WIND GUSTS COULD REACH AS HIGH AS 25 TO 35 MPH THIS MORNING THROUGH EARLY AFTERNOON. THE STRONGEST GUSTS WILL BE OVER SOUTHWEST IN AND NEARBY PORTIONS OF SOUTHERN IL AND WESTERN KY. WIND SPEEDS WILL BE SLIGHTLY LESS ELSEWHERE, INCLUDING SOUTHEAST MO. UNSECURED LIGHTER OBJECTS COULD BE SUSCEPTIBLE TO THE GUSTY WINDS ALONG WITH MAINLY LARGER PROFILE VEHICLES. THE WIND SHOULD GRADUALLY SUBSIDE BY LATER THIS AFTERNOON AND THEN DIMINISH THIS EVENING, SETTING THE STAGE FOR A WIDESPREAD FREEZE ACROSS THE AREA.\n...FREEZE WARNING IN EFFECT FROM 11 PM THIS EVENING TO 8 AM CST MONDAY... THE NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE IN PADUCAH HAS ISSUED A FREEZE WARNING, WHICH IS IN EFFECT FROM 11 PM THIS EVENING TO 8 AM CST MONDAY. THE FREEZE WATCH IS NO LONGER IN EFFECT. * WHAT...TEMPERATURES IN THE MIDDLE 20S TO AROUND 30 SUNDAY NIGHT INTO MONDAY MORNING. * WHERE...PORTIONS OF SOUTHEAST MISSOURI, SOUTHERN ILLINOIS, SOUTHWEST INDIANA AND WESTERN KENTUCKY. * WHEN...FROM LATE SUNDAY NIGHT THROUGH MONDAY MORNING. * TEMPERATURE...WILL FALL TO BELOW FREEZING IN MANY AREAS BY 11 PM CST. * IMPACTS...THE FREEZE MONDAY MORNING WILL LIKELY END THE GROWING SEASON ACROSS THE ENTIRE REGION. PRECAUTIONARY/PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS... TAKE STEPS NOW TO PROTECT TENDER PLANTS FROM THE COLD. TO PREVENT FREEZING AND POSSIBLE BURSTING OF OUTDOOR WATER PIPES THEY SHOULD BE WRAPPED, DRAINED, OR ALLOWED TO DRIP SLOWLY. THOSE THAT HAVE IN-GROUND SPRINKLER SYSTEMS SHOULD DRAIN THEM AND COVER ABOVE- GROUND PIPES TO PROTECT THEM FROM FREEZING. A FREEZE WARNING MEANS SUB-FREEZING TEMPERATURES ARE IMMINENT OR HIGHLY LIKELY. THESE CONDITIONS WILL KILL CROPS AND OTHER SENSITIVE VEGETATION. &&}}
{{FILE - In this Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021 file photo, supporters of President Donald Trump climb the west wall of the the U.S. Capitol in Washington. In what could be the longest of legal longshots, several of those arrested for storming the U.S. Capitol are holding out hope that President Donald Trump will use some of his last hours in office to grant all the rioters a full and complete pardon. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP\nA Georgia cop who claimed he was among “the first ones over the fence” as a mob of pro-Trump rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol could face federal charges, authorities say.\nMichael Shane Daughtry is accused of “knowingly and willfully” joining the crowd that breached the federal building Jan. 6 and “impeded, disrupted and disturbed” lawmakers’ efforts to certify the results of the presidential election, according to a probable cause affidavit released by the Justice Department on Tuesday.\nDaughtry, a Pelham Police Department officer, not only bragged online about “pushing [our] way to the very front” of the Capitol but admitted to taking part in the violent siege in a recorded phone call with a fellow department officer — who alerted the FBI, according to the DOJ.\n“We [sic] the one that tore the fence down up there,” Daughtry said, according to the affidavit. “We was the first ones over the fence. Everybody followed us.”\nOn the call, Daughtry said he got as far as the Capitol door but was forced to retreat after officers shot him and others with rubber bullets, the document said.\nThe FBI said it launched an investigation Jan. 7 after the Pelham Police Department also provided investigators with screenshots from Daughtry’s personal Facebook page, which included posts about his plans to travel to Washington, D.C., to “support [Donald] Trump and put our two cents in.”\n“We’re headed to Washington, D.C. where they’re expecting 4 million people,” he wrote two days before the riot, according to screenshots included in the affidavit. “Looks like we have have to walk 5 about miles ... but it’ll be worth it to yell crap at [Nancy] Pelosi and the rest of the idiots that left wing retards voted into office.”\nIn a post from Jan. 6, Daughtry shared a picture of the Capitol and noted how it was easy to force his way upfront because “I look like security.” He also parroted false claims that the crowd had been infiltrated by Antifa protesters, who he claimed were “bussed in” by police to “fake clash” at the Capitol, according to screenshots of his other posts shared online.\n“The violence was all stagged [sic] by the Capital Police to make us look bad,” Daughtry said, the screenshots show. “I never saw one patriot cause any damage or cause any trouble.”\nPhotos and videos from that day showed rioters scaling walls, assaulting officers and smashing windows before breaching the Capitol Rotunda and, later, the House and Senate chambers, McClatchy News reported. At least five people died in the violence, including a U.S. Capitol Police officer.\nA Georgia woman was one of three rioters who died after suffering “medical emergencies” during the siege, while another woman was shot and killed by police, officials said.\nIt’s unclear if Daughtry is still employed with the police department in Pelham, located just over 50 miles north of Tallahassee, Florida.\nMcClatchy News reached out to the Pelham Police Department for comment and is awaiting a response.}}
{{FILE - In this Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021 file photo, supporters of President Donald Trump, including Jacob Chansley, center with fur hat, are confronted by Capitol Police officers outside the Senate Chamber inside the Capitol in Washington. Chansley’s lawyer says that he reached out White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows about a possible pardon on behalf of the Arizona man, acknowledging it might be a reach but that “there’s nothing to lose.” (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta) AP\nIn what could be the longest of legal longshots, several of those arrested for storming the U.S. Capitol are holding out hope that President Donald Trump will use some of his last hours in office to grant the rioters a full and complete pardon.\nLongtime advisers to Trump are urging him against such a move but the rioters contend their argument is compelling: They went to the Capitol to support Trump, and now that they are facing charges carrying up to 20 years in prison, it’s time for Trump to support them.\n“I feel like I was basically following my president. I was following what we were called to do. He asked us to fly there. He asked us to be there. So I was doing what he asked us to do,” said Jenna Ryan, a Dallas-area real-estate agent who took a private jet to the Jan. 6 rally and ensuing riot to disrupt the certification of the election of President-elect Joe Biden.\nRyan -- who prosecutors say posted a now-deleted video of herself marching to the Capitol with the words, “We are going to f---ing go in here. Life or death” -- told Dallas television station KTVT, “I think we all deserve a pardon. I’m facing a prison sentence. I think I do not deserve that.”\nPerhaps the most high-profile rioter, the so-called “QAnon Shaman” who broke into the Senate chamber and posed at the dais with a spear, wearing a horned fur hat and animal skins, is also pleading for a pardon.\nJacob Chansley’s lawyer told The Associated Press that he reached out to White House chief of staff Mark Meadows about a possible pardon on behalf of the Arizona man, acknowledging it might be a reach but that there’s nothing to lose in seeking one.\nIf Chansley is not granted a pardon, attorney Albert Watkins said, it could offer the added benefit of further awakening his client to the fact that his devotion to Trump has not been reciprocated, comparing it to being a jilted lover or even a member of a cult.\n“The only thing that was missing at the Capitol was the president, our president, stirring up the Kool-Aid with a big spoon,” Watkins said.\nDominic Pezzola, a Rochester, New York, man and far-right Proud Boys supporter who was seen in a video using a clear police shield to shatter a Capitol window, also explored seeking a pardon but his attorney said there was not enough time to make it happen.\n“To believe the president is going to carte blanche issue these pardons is kind of a fantasy,” defense attorney Mike Scibetta told the AP. “I think it would cast a shadow on his own impeachment defense.”\nTrump, who has long reveled in suspense, was expected to spend his last full day in office issuing a flurry of pardons to as many as 100 people, two people briefed on the plans told the AP.\nBut if Harvard Law professor emeritus Alan Dershowitz has his say, the more than 150 rioters arrested so far and the thousands more suspected should not be among them.\nDershowitz, who represented Trump in his first impeachment last year, told the AP he has not been approached by any of the rioters about seeking a pardon but even if he had, “it would be wrong to pardon rioters who committed crimes.”\nSouth Carolina Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham, who speaks often with Trump, was among the confidantes urging the president not to go there.\n“I don’t care if you went there and spread flowers on the floor, you breached the security of the Capitol, you interrupted a joint session of Congress, you tried to intimidate us all,” Graham said on Fox Sunday Morning Futures. “You should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law and to seek a pardon of these people would be wrong.\nHe warned that such a move “would destroy President Trump.”\nNot all of those charged in the Jan. 6 riot are in the market for a pardon. Victoria Bergeson of Groton, Connecticut, who faces charges of violating curfew and unlawful entry wants her case to “just go away” but sees accepting a pardon “as an admission that she knowingly did something wrong,” said her attorney Samuel Bogash.\n“She does not want to do that due to a justifiable fear of how the public would perceive it,” he said. “She is already being trolled online.”\nNoah Bookbinder, the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a watchdog group, said Trump’s use of his clemency powers has set up a “spoils system” for his allies and pardoning the insurrectionists would just be a more extreme version.\n“That this president might be willing, even to pardon those who rose up against the United States," he said, “would be the ultimate statement of his perversion of the purpose behind pardons.”}}
{{FIREFIGHTERS from the Malaga Fire Consortium are travelling to Lebanon to help with the search for survivors after the huge blast that rocked the city.\nFive specialists from the NGO GERCCMA (Canine disaster search and rescue team) have volunteered their services and will travel to Beirut in the coming days.\nOf the firefighters, three are from Malaga, one is from Sevilla and the other is from Almunecar.\nJavier Luque, Pedro Luque and Jair Pereira will travel alongside Jaime Parejo and David Cabrera to join local rescue teams and the Lebanese Army.\n“Our hope is none other than finding someone alive who is buried”, said Javier Luque, corporal of the Provincial Firefighters Consortium of Malaga.\nHEROES: Five officers from the GERCCMA Malaga will fly to Beirut to assist with the search efforts (GERCCMA)\nThe heroic group volunteered their services after Periera contacted the Lebanese ambassador for Spain directly to assist with documentation and travel authorisations.\n“The plan will be to arrive in Beirut and be picked up by the Army who will take us to the blast site,” said Luque.\nAlong with the firefighters, four highly trained sniffer dogs will make the trip, Gollum, Maya, Rasti and Heavy.\nThe team will be based close to the epicentre to await direction from the local rescue crews.\nThe NGO team are no strangers to assisting with disaster support.\nThey have visited over 30 natural and man made disasters since joining the team, including travelling to Turkey, Pakistan, Chile, Haiti, Ecuador and Mexico.\nLuque regrets that although the trip is important, they have received no government funding to pay for the trip.\n“We have had to finance the trip ourselves, we had to buy our flight tickets and everything,” said Periera.\nThe NGO is travelling to Beirut to assist in the aftermath of a huge explosion that rocked the port area of the city and claimed the lives of at least 137 people and injured over 5,000.\nInitial investigations suggest that the blast was caused by 2,750 tonnes of poorly stored and decaying ammonium nitrate.\nAmong the injured are five Spaniards, according to Catalan Minister for Foreign Action Bernat Sole, but this claim is yet to be verified by the Spanish interior ministry.}}
{{U.S. Rep. Dan Meuser began Wednesday defending his plan to object to President-elect Joe Biden receiving Pennsylvania’s 20 electoral votes.\nMeuser, R-9, Dallas, tweeted about appearing Newsmax TV at 10:25 a.m. and tweeted in the afternoon as the proceeding to count the Electoral College votes began before a joint session of Congress.\n“It is indisputable that the Governor’s office and secretary of state engaged in unlawful actions changing the rules during the election,” Meuser tweeted. “Such unlawful actions led to illegal ballots and an inaccurate vote count.”\nHe continued in a follow-up tweet, “The people have no trust in this election due to the unquestionably unlawful actions of the Wolf Administration. It is true that fraud has not been proven, but his illegal actions are indisputable.”\nGov. Tom Wolf issued a statement Wednesday afternoon.\n“Republican members of the Pennsylvania Congressional delegation plan to object to the counting of Pennsylvania’s electoral votes by claiming the election was compromised, and that our electoral votes are suspect,” Wolf said. “This is an outrageous lie, and they are undermining our democracy by recklessly repeating that lie to deceive the American people. Today, these Republican Congressman have a choice. They can stand with our country and uphold our constitution, or they can stand by a single defeated politician pushing baseless claims in an attempt to overturn an election.”\nThe U.S. Capitol was stormed by rioters. I stayed back trying to help secure the doors. Capitol Police kept everyone safe, while putting themselves at risk. We must be grateful to our law enforcement and condemn violent lawlessness. God bless America. We will get through this. — Congressman Dan Meuser (@RepMeuser) January 6, 2021\nAround 2 p.m., a violent mob loyal to President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol and forced lawmakers into hiding.\n“The U.S. Capitol was stormed by rioters,” Meuser said in a tweet posted before 5 p.m. “I stayed back trying to help secure the doors. Capitol Police kept everyone safe, while putting themselves at risk. We must be grateful to our law enforcement and condemn violent lawlessness. God bless America. We will get through this.”\nCongress reconvened after 8 p.m. to resume the count of the Electoral College.\nMeuser and seven other Republican congressmen from Pennsylvania issued a joint statement Dec. 31 saying they will object to Biden receiving the state’s electoral votes.\nThe Electoral College confirmed Biden as the presidential election winner Dec. 14 by a vote of 306 to 232. Biden won Pennsylvania’s 20 electoral votes by winning 50% of the statewide popular vote in November. Trump received 48.8% of the statewide vote and lost by 80,555 votes.}}
{{Get US and UK politics insight with our free daily email briefing straight to your inbox Sign up Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email\nViolent Donald Trump supporters have stormed the US Capitol, the meeting place of the United States Congress.\nSenators are being evacuated from the building after politicians were forced to shelter in their offices as police outside are overwhelmed by hundreds of rioters.\nThe building is now in lockdown after protesters made it inside, one of whom was carrying the racist Confederate flag.\nPictures show smoke filling a corridor as the demonstrators storm the building with CNN reporting an armed stand off at the front door.\nThe doors of the legislative chamber have been barricaded and reporters inside have been told to get down on the floor by police.\n(Image: AFP via Getty Images)\nA message over the PA system said: "Lock all doors if able. If unable, seek shelter or concealment. Remain calm and await further directions. I repeat... security threats security threats security threats inside the US Capitol."\nTear gas has been deployed and congressmen and women have been told to put on gas masks they keep under their desks.\nProtesters including the far-right, neo-fascist Proud Boys have torn down barriers and thrown items at police in scenes described as "unreal" by one reporter.\nThey have breached security barricades around the US Capitol building and scaled a structure built for Joe Biden's inauguration.\nThe Washington DC mayor has ordered a citywide curfew from 6pm (11pm UK time) today until 6am tomorrow (11am our time).\nMeanwhile Trump has tweeted three times in the past hour, saying: "Mike Pence didn’t have the courage to do what should have been done to protect our Country and our Constitution, giving States a chance to certify a corrected set of facts, not the fraudulent or inaccurate ones which they were asked to previously certify. USA demands the truth!"\nHe later added: "Please support our Capitol Police and Law Enforcement. They are truly on the side of our Country. Stay peaceful!"\nToday the the US Congress and Senate were confirming the Electoral College votes from the 2020 presidential election, won by Biden.\n(Image: REUTERS)\nStaff writer at The Dispatch, Andrew Egger, wrote on Twitter : "Protesters have torn down a barrier.\n"Fireworks going off outside the Capitol.\n"People in a tower telling the crowd to press forward. 'Move forward and we can beat them.'\n"Throwing things are police.[sic] Crowd pushing up chanting USA. This is unreal."\nThe US Capitol building is in Washington DC, the US capital city and its political centre.\n(Image: Getty Images)\nReuters tonight reports it has been put on lockdown as the pro-Trump demonstrators rally outside as Congress debates the certification of Biden's electoral victory.\nMeanwhile the Senate has abruptly recessed during a debate on the Electoral College vote as congressional staff and reporters are ordered to "shelter in place", Reuters reports.\nWashington police have told reports that the US Capitol building has been breached and lockdown has been order in both chambers.\nReports also suggest that the US Vice President Mike Pence has left the senate chamber.\n(Image: REUTERS)\nProtesters earlier unfurled Trump flags as they gathered on the Capitol steps.\nPolice used teargas and pepper spray on some of the protesters.\nTrump, who has spent much of his time since the November 3 election trying to overturn the results, falsely said he won as he spoke on an outdoor stage framing the White House, which Biden is due to move into in two weeks.\nCrowds gathered at the "Save America March" wore Trump-approved red baseball caps and cheered as Trump repeated the groundless conspiracy theories that have consumed his final days in office - a period in which coronavirus infections have surged throughout the United States as the pandemic worsens.\n(Image: REUTERS)\n"You don't concede when there's theft involved," Trump, a Republican, said after taking the stage following a playlist blasted over loudspeakers of power ballads by Elton John and Phil Collins. "Our country has had enough and we will not take it any more."\nFor more than an hour, he aired familiar grievances with the news media and Hillary Clinton, his Democratic rival from the 2016 election, and delighted the crowd by calling Democratic victories the product of what he called "explosions of b***s**t."\n"B***s**! B***s**! B***s**!" the crowd chanted in reply.\nMost were not wearing the face masks despite Covid-19 having killed more than 350,000 Americans.\n(Image: AFP via Getty Images)\nWeeks have passed since the states completed certifying that Biden, a Democrat, won the election by 306 Electoral College votes to Trump's 232, and Trump's extraordinary challenges to Biden's victory have floundered in courts across the country.\nCongress was due to confirm Biden's victory on Wednesday.\nMany of Trump's fellow Republicans have promised a stonewalling effort that could stretch proceedings past midnight but was almost certain to fail.\nTrump returned to the White House as some at the rally marched down Pennsylvania Avenue to join the protesters storming the US Capitol grounds.\n(Image: Amy Harris/REX/Shutterstock)\n"Drain the swamp!" protesters chanted. "F**k Joe Biden!"\nMembers of militia groups and far-right groups, some in body armor, mingled with the crowds, and some government offices buildings were on high alert.\n"I'm sheltering in place in my office," Haley Stevens, a Michigan congresswoman, wrote on Twitter. "The building next door has been evacuated. I can't believe I have to write this."\nWashington police earlier banned from the city Enrique Tarrio, the leader of the Trump-supporting far-right group the Proud Boys, after he was arrested on Monday for destruction of property and possession of a firearm magazine.\n(Image: REUTERS)\nOther members of the men's group, which espouses white nationalism, gathered at the U.S. Capitol.\nCrowd control largely fell to the Metropolitan Police Department, which mobilized all 3,750 officers, the Capitol Police, the Park Police, the U.S. Secret Service, and more than 300 members of the city's National Guard, according to Washington police chief Robert Contee and other officials.\nPolice have told protesters not to bring their guns to Washington, which has some of the country's strictest gun laws and bans the open carrying of firearms.\nOn Tuesday evening, Trump supporters trying to reach Black Lives Matter Plaza near the White House were stopped by police in riot gear who used pepper spray and batons to drive them back.\nPolice said a handful of their officers were injured in scuffles and 10 people were arrested from Tuesday into Wednesday morning, a police spokeswoman said.\nMeanwhile, Militia members have gathered outside the Georgia Capitol and senior staff have been escorted out to safety}}
{{By Gabriella Garcia\nOn Wednesday Jan. 6, the House of Representatives and Senate chambers were evacuated as a mob of belligerent Trump supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol building, leading to the delay in the Electoral College vote count of the 2020 Presidential Election.\nRioters climbed over walls, roamed the halls of the building once inside and are shown to be physically sitting in office seats “with [their] feet up” on the desks, NBC reported. Law enforcement is now using photos of rioters inside the Capitol to identify, arrest and charge them.\nNBC reports at least one improvised explosive device was found on the U.S. Capitol grounds and at least 5 people were taken to the hospital. The riot resulted in four dead and over 50 arrests at the Capitol.\nThose in support of Donald Trump have denounced Joe Biden’s victory in the November election and have only been empowered by Trump’s words since.\nIn a Twitter video released hours after the insurrection began, Trump persistently refers to the election as “stolen” and “fraudulent,” which reporters claim only adds “gasoline [not water] to the fire.”\nAlthough Trump asked for rioters to “go home” as “we have to have peace… and law and order,” his words only further encouraged the rioters, as he states: “they [took the victory of the election] away from all of us. From me, from you, from our country.” He ends the video expressing his love for his supporters and claiming that they are “very special.”\nCitizens took to social media to express their frustration for the double standards in how law enforcement responds to protests when compared to the George Floyd protests in late May and June of 2020.\nDaughter of late activist Martin Luther King Jr., Bernice King, took to Twitter stating, “What many are saying is true: If this were Black Lives Matter storming the Capitol, tanks would have been in the city by now. The response tells the story of our nation’s racist history and present. How can we stop it from being the future?”\nActivist DeRay McKesson concurs, tweeting, “Without being dramatic, they would’ve literally shot us black folks if we had BROKEN INTO the Capitol building in an attempt to STORM THE SENATE CHAMBER.”\nAnother post stated, “These aren’t protestors. They are Terrorists. They have stated they are attempting a coup. If you’re comparing what’s happening today to any of the protests for racial and economic equality from the past year, you’re so mind bogglingly wrong.”\nAlthough D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser initiated a 6 p.m. curfew early on in the day, many still feared for the safety of all citizens, especially the legislators still inside the building, as the sun set in the city. NBC reporter on the scene, Vaughn Hillyard, shared that a mob participant expressed, “If our words are not heard today, you’ll hear our muskets tomorrow.”\nThe Police Force, FBI, Secret Service and Homeland Security were seen at the Capitol attempting to deescalate the situation. The National Guard was later deployed.\nStill, Trump refused to deliberately condemn the current riots through his tweets which only fuels his supporters behavior. In fact, his words arguably show sympathy for his supporters’ actions, as he states in another Twitter post that reads:\n“These are the things and events that happen when a sacred landslide election victory is so unceremoniously & viciously stripped away from great patriots who have been badly & unfairly treated for so long.”\nNevertheless, Republican Representative Markwayne Mullin told NBC that the events are no fault of the president but instead the agitators, claiming those initially involved with the march broke away from the more violent attendees.\nDonald Trump’s Twitter account was eventually locked for 12 hours and was threatened to be suspended indefinitely should he continue to make posts that encouraged rioters.\nU.S. Attorney General William Barr called Trump’s conduct during the riot a “betrayal of his office.”\nAlso amidst yesterday’s riot, Senator Chuck Schumer said that Vice President Mike Pence should use the 25th Amendment to remove Trump from office.\nThroughout the day, members of Congress assured the public that they would continue with the affirmation process despite the disruption, and are expected to reconvene tonight once it is safe to do so.\nFollowing the upheaval that took place in the Capitol, the First Lady’s Chief of Staff Stephanie Grisham announced her resignation. Her departure is believed to have been an act of protest against Trump and his handling of the riots.\nDespite the curfew, there are reports of citizens still standing around the Capitol at 8 p.m.\nIt is around this time that the congressional session restarted, beginning with a statement from Pence and Senator Mitch McConnell, both of whom condemned the violent outbursts seen today.\nPence later confirmed Joe Biden as winner of the Electoral College, declaring him the election winner.\nLinh Nguyen contributed to this report.\nGabriella Garcia is originally from the Bay Area, California, and is completing her fourth year at UC Davis as a Political Science major and Professional Writing minor.}}
{{MORNING BRIEFING\nWhat you need to know straight to your inbox,\n7am every weekday morning.}}
{{A West Virginia lawmaker who filmed himself storming the US Capitol — and the rioter who gloated as he sat at House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s desk — were among those charged Friday over the chaos, authorities said.\nMountain State delegate Derrick Evans — who recorded himself inside the Capitol Rotunda on Wednesday shouting, “We’re in, baby!’’ — was federally charged with entering a restricted area, the Justice Department said.\nEvans was expected to be released from federal custody Friday afternoon, according to local CBS-TV affiliate WDTV in West Virginia.\nMeanwhile, Richard Barnett — who was caught in a now-infamous viral photo lounging back in Pelosi’s chair in her private congressional office with his feet up on her desk after he and the pro-Trump mob infiltrated the building — turned himself into the Benton County Sheriff’s Office in Little Rock, Ark., in the morning, said local Fox affiliate KNWA.\nBarnett, 60, was charged with federal counts including violent entry, theft of public property, disorderly conduct and entering and remaining on restricted grounds, CNN said.\nHe allegedly stole a letter from Pelosi’s office meant for US Rep. Bill Long (R-Mo.).\nWith Associated Press}}
{{WASHINGTON (AP) — Republicans object to election tally in Arizona, forcing votes in House and Senate on Biden’s victory in state.}}
{{On May 30, Texas Gov. Abbott announced that he will be deploying state resources to the cities of Houston, Dallas, San Antonio, and Austin to maintain public safety and ensure peaceful protests.\n“Texas and America mourn the senseless loss of George Floyd and the actions that led to his death are reprehensible and should be condemned in the strongest terms possible,” said Governor Abbott. “As Texans exercise their 1st Amendment rights, it is imperative that order is maintained and private property is protected.”\nRELATED: Protests rock United States over George Floyd’s death\nTexas DPS has sent more than 1,5000 officers to assist local police departments, according to a press release from the governor's office. More resources will be provided as needed.\nThe Governor and DPS officials have spoken with Dallas Mayor Eric Johnson, Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner, San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg, and Austin Mayor Steve Adler, as well as law enforcement officials in those cities.}}
{{From left: Draymond Green of the Golden State Warriors, Giannis Antetokounmpo of the Milwaukee Bucks, and Tyrese Haliburton of the Sacramento Kings. Green and Antetokounmpo screen grab from Bleacher Report video, Haliburton from @SeanCunningham video\nOn Wednesday night, losses in the NBA failed to reflect significantly in terms of importance outside the world of analytics. Same with wins. Both were a flaccid mirage, stolid next to the chaos that held the nation in a choke-hold, chaos fueled by supporters of President Donald Trump rioting at the Capitol earlier in the day.\nBefore the games tipped off, professional basketball players took to social media to express their horror and rage at the events that were unfolding. But when given the microphone after the games, basketball wasn’t their focal point.\n“It’s shameful to keep calling them protesters,” Golden State Warriors forward Draymond Green said. “They’re not (expletive) protesters. They’re (expletive) terrorists.”\nGreen seemed uninterested in the hows or whys surrounding the Warriors’ 108-101 loss against the Los Angeles Clippers and instead drew contrast between law enforcement’s treatment of those rioting the Capitol and Black individuals protesting systemic racism.\n“It’s baffling with the reaction that the law enforcement had and whoever else was involved from a authoritarian standpoint to see the National Guard standing on those same steps when there was a peaceful protest and now to see a terrorist attack and there was no National Guard,” Green said. “It just goes to show you where this country is and where this country has always been and probably where it’s going to stay, to be quite honest. Nothing’s changed. I think through social media and all of these different things we have at our fingertips today, we’re more aware of things. But nothing has changed. This is the same America that it’s been. It’s no different.”\nGreen went on to talk about how a police officer in Kenosha, Wisconsin, did not face criminal charges after shooting Jacob Black seven times, leaving him paralyzed.\n“It’s almost a slap in the face and almost a ‘(expletive) you’ to every Black person in America who goes through these things,” Green said. “It’s almost like they want to show you they have power and want to show you I can say, ‘(expletive) you and there is nothing you can do about it.’ And so that’s just what this country is and what this country’s been and probably where this country will stay.”\nThe NBA sounds off\nGreen wasn’t the only player to speak emotionally about the day’s event.\nAfter Milwaukee Bucks forward Giannis Antetokounmpo won the tipoff to start the game against the Detroit Pistons, Antetokounmpo pushed the ball out of bounds and both teams went down on a knee for 10 seconds.\nBucks and Pistons players took a knee to start tonight's game. pic.twitter.com/hz4ASdJhDI — Bleacher Report (@BleacherReport) January 7, 2021\nFollowing the game, the two-time MVP spoke openly about being Black in America.\n"My kid is going to grow up here in America and my kid is Black. I cannot imagine my kid going through what I see on TV."\nGiannis on being Black in America pic.twitter.com/Rjq1sDX971 — Bleacher Report (@BleacherReport) January 7, 2021\n“At the end of the day, when I stop playing basketball and while I’m playing basketball, my kid is gonna grow up here in America,” Antetokounmpo said. “My kid is Black. And I can not imagine my kid going through what I see and what I see on the TV.\n“If while I’m living and while I’m breathing, I can do something about it to even change it toward the better ... I’m gonna do it. I’m gonna speak out about it, but at the end of the day, I’ve got to educate myself and I’ve got to inform myself even more.”\nPhiladelphia 76ers coach Doc Rivers pondered what would have happened if the rioters had been people of color.\n“Could you imagine?” Rivers said. “That, to me, is a picture that’s worth a thousand words for all of us to see. It’s something for us to reckon with, again. No police dogs turned on people. No billy clubs hitting people. People peacefully being escorted out of the Capitol.”\nPrior to tipoff between the Sacramento Kings and the Chicago Bulls, the teams locked arms during the national anthem, following a pattern that other teams around the league set. Kings rookie Tyrese Haliburton sounded off after the game.\n“What’s happening right now in our world and what happened today in particular is nothing but a joke,” he said. “With everything that’s going on, the losses of many African American lives and the plight of people of color and then for these human beings to come out and act like they’re being discriminated against because they lost a fair election or that they have to wear masks, is a complete joke.”\nComments from Sacramento Kings rookie Tyrese Haliburton on what transpired today at the U.S. Capitol. pic.twitter.com/1Qb6RwOz3E — The Kings Herald (@thekingsherald) January 7, 2021\nJaylen Brown of the Boston Celtics marched in Georgia following the death of George Floyd, a Black man who was killed by a Minneapolis police officer last spring, and has been constant voice in the Black Lives Matter movement. Brown vented his frustration after witnessing a sea of angry white people “carry out an attempted insurrection,” Sports Illustrated reported.\n“It reminds me of what Dr. Martin Luther King said,” Brown said. “There are two Americas. In one you get killed for sleeping in your car. … In another America you can storm the Capitol. No tear gas, no massive arrests. None of that. It’s 2021. I don’t think anything has changed. Basketball is our profession. We are also men, we are also fathers. We want to continue to be voice for the voiceless.”}}
{{Stephen Jackson wasn't prepared to see his long-time friend George Floyd being murdered at the hands of a Minneapolis police officer when someone shared the viral video with him. Jackson actually had to take a second look after being told that this was not just another innocent African-American man murdered that he was watching, but someone that he said was basically family.\nJackson spoke directly and passionately on his "brother," defending his character before a peaceful rally after George Floyd's murder. Jackson who has never been one to hide his true feeling on and off the court demands justice for his slain friend.\n- Have you signed up for the AllGrizzlies Community Board? We are trying to create a new place to share posts and have intriguing and fun conversations about all things related to the Memphis Grizzlies! Once you sign up, feel free to post as you like. It is actually the best way to interact with me going forward as well. We will also be looking for group admins as well. See you soon and Go Grizz!\n--We also want to know how you all are dealing with the NBA being suspended right now. How are you spending your time while there are no games being played? Post as many things as you can as well as your viewpoint on anything else that's going on with the NBA or the Grizzlies right now!--\n- Anthony Sain - Memphis Grizzlies Beat Writer and Lead Editor For Sports Illustrated's All Grizzlies.com\nFollow Us On Twitter: @AllGrizzlies @SainAsylum\nTurn on the notifications on @AllGrizzlies to get updates on when all of our articles are posted.\nLike Us On Facebook: Search: Grizzlies Maven or Sports Illustrated Grizzlies.}}
{{© Reuters / Hannah McKay\n© Michael E.Mann/Twitter\nBen & Jerry's has diversified from the ice cream business, appointing itself an expert on national security and racism. Its explanation of the Capitol Hill riot as "white supremacy" left a sour taste in some customers' mouths.Ben & Jerry's is no stranger to corporate activism, and has released several #Resistance-pleasing flavors during President Donald Trump's term in office: a vegan dessert honoring kneeling NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick, a 'Pecan Resist' flavor to fundraise for anti-Trump organizations, and 'Save our Swirled Now', another vegan flavor to raise awareness of climate change.The Vermont company also regularly issues proclamations on current events, from a lengthy post this summer declaring its support for the Black Lives Matter movement to a pro-immigration lecture aimed at the UK government this fall. However, the company has taken an even more solemn tone after pro-Trump protesters vandalized the US Capitol on Wednesday."Yesterday was not a protest - it was a riot to uphold white supremacy," Ben & Jerry's tweeted on Thursday, kicking off a lengthy thread explaining how "the mostly white insurrectionists roamed freely and without consequence through the heart of our democracy."Calling the pro-Trump crowd the "ultimate embodiment of white privilege," the dessert peddlers claimed that they would have been treated differently were they "Black, Brown or Indigenous people" - capitalizing every race except "white" in an apparent bid for more woke points. In response to the "white tyranny" on display, the company called for the impeachment or deposition of President Trump, concluding "not one more day."Unlike the pro-Trump rioters, however, Cohen and Greenfield stayed out of the building and kept the peace.Ben & Jerry's latest proclamation satisfied the cravings of the anti-Trump crowd, who praised the company for having "more integrity than our president," and showing "what it means to be anti-racist."Yet for conservatives and Trump supporters, the lecture was one more reason to put down the spoon. "You shouldn't be eating ice cream anyway," right-wing pundit David Reaboi tweeted . "Hit the gym, eat clean and stop making these damn Bolsheviks rich."The Capitol Hill riot left five people dead: an unarmed protester was shot by police, a police officer was fatally injured by a rioter, and three others suffered "medical emergencies" and passed away. It has been condemned by Democrats and most Republicans, and by a multitude of America's corporations, including the PR departments of Boeing, Goldman Sachs, and even Axe body spray.}}
{{Moscow, Jan. 8, 2020 (Sputnik/NAN) U.S. Education Secretary, Betsy DeVos, has resigned in protest against U.S. President Donald Trump after his supporters stormed the Capitol building.\nThe Wall Street Journal (WSJ) reported the development on Thursday, citing the resignation letter.\n“That behaviour (violent riot) was unconscionable for our country.\n“There is no mistaking the impact your (Trump) rhetoric had on the situation, and it is the inflexion point for me,’’ DeVos said in a letter to Trump, as quoted by the WSJ.\nEarlier on Thursday, U.S. Transportation Secretary, Elaine Chao, has also resigned due to the Wednesday violence and described it as deeply-troubling.\nOthers, who have stepped down since Wednesday, include Stephanie Grisham, the former Chief of Staff to First Lady Melania Trump; Matt Pottinger, the Deputy National Security Adviser and Sarah Matthews, the Deputy White House Press Secretary.\nOthers are Anna Cristina “Rickie” Niceta, the Social Secretary at the White House; Ryan Tully, the National Security Council’s Senior Director for European and Russian Affairs and Tyler Goodspeed, the acting Chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers.\nAnd also John Costello, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Intelligence and Security at the Commerce Department.\nThousands of Trump’s supporters violently stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday in a bid to prevent Congress from certifying the election results.\nProtesters attacked the Police with metal pipes and chemical irritants, damaged property, seized the inauguration stage and occupied the rotunda inside the Capitol building.\nThe attack came after Trump urged his supporters to keep fighting to overturn the election results.\nOn Thursday, Trump said that he is “outraged” by the violent riot at the Capitol and confirmed that he is working to ensure a smooth transition of power to President-elect Joe Biden and his administration.\nBiden’s inauguration is scheduled for Jan. 20.\nLike this: Like Loading...}}
{{Demi Lovato's in the Studio 'Working on Something Special' After Impassioned Condemnation of Capitol Riots\nDemi Lovato is ready to let her music speak after a day of chaos, violence, and death at the Capitol on Wednesday. The 28-year-old singer and activist took to social media to speak out after a mob of President Donald Trump's supporters overtook the Capitol building amid the Electoral College vote count, which was supposed to officially name Joe Biden the next President of the United States. (The vote was eventually completed early Thursday morning.)\n"My heart is broken. It makes me too sad to believe how naive I was to think this couldn’t possibly happen, and yet it did," the "Commander in Chief" singer tweeted. "Here we are."\nShe went on to slam commenters asking for a new album amid the on-going pandemonium.\n"For everyone in my comments saying 'where’s d7' or wanting me to sing instead of speaking up about what needs to change in this country... THIS IS WHY I POST AS MUCH AS I DO," she continued. "THIS IS WHY I CARE. THIS CANNOT HAPPEN ANY F**KING MORE. I’m angry, embarrassed and ashamed."\nMoved by the events of the day, Lovato added, "I’m in the studio working on something special after today’s assault on democracy. #impeachtrumptonight."\nBack in October, Lovato released the political ballad, "Commander in Chief," directly calling out President Trump. She performed the song at the Billboard Music Awards several weeks before the 2020 Presidential Election.\nAt the time, she replied to critics of the song, writing, "I literally don't care if this ruins my career. This isn't about that. My career isn't about that. I made a piece of art that stands for something I believe in. And I'm putting it out even at the risk of losing fans. I'll take integrity in my work over sales any day."}}
{{Former Defense Undersecretary for Policy Michele Flournoy is reported to be at the top of President-elect Joe Biden’s list to become his secretary of defense.\nFlournoy would make history as the first woman to run the Pentagon if nominated and confirmed for the post, but a coalition of progressive groups are urging Biden to go with someone else.\n“She is just the epitome of I think everything that’s wrong with U.S. foreign policy,” Code Pink co-founder Medea Benjamin told the Daily Caller News Foundation.\nThe likely pick for President-elect Joe Biden’s Secretary of Defense, Michele Flournoy, would be the first woman to head the Pentagon, but a coalition of progressive groups are urging Biden against making the potentially historic pick.\n“We’re not happy about this woman breaking the glass ceiling,” Medea Benjamin, the co-founder of the feminist and progressive antiwar group Code Pink, told the Daily Caller News Foundation.\n“For us, it’s not about gender, it’s about politics and actions,” Benjamin said. “She has a history of being wrong on every single important issue. It just amazes me that she’s under consideration.”\nBenjamin cited Flournoy’s support for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and her support for American intervention in Syria and Libya when she served as the undersecretary of defense for policy under former President Barack Obama. Benjamin also expressed concern over Flournoy’s hawkish views towards China, which she said could lead to another cold war with a major world nuclear power.\nThe Code Pink co-founder added that Flournoy is rife with conflicts of interests due to her work with WestExec Advisors, the consulting firm she co-founded in 2018 with Biden’s secretary of state nominee, Tony Blinken. The pair allegedly used to help corporations obtain contracts with the Pentagon. (RELATED: Biden Transition Fails To Disclose Tony Blinken’s Involvement In Lucrative Consulting And Private Equity Firms)\n“She is just the epitome of I think everything that’s wrong with U.S. foreign policy,” Benjamin said. “The interventionism, the militarism and the cozy nature between military contractors and the Pentagon.”\nOther progressive groups that are signaling opposition to Flournoy is the Bernie Sanders-founded nonprofit group Our Revolution, as well as Military Families Speak Out, Roots Action, World Beyond War and Just Foreign Policy.\nFlournoy has long been reported being at the top of Biden’s list to be his defense secretary, but the post was notably absent when he unveiled his national security team on Nov. 23.\nPolitico reported in late November that six people close to Biden’s transition say the president-elect is not entirely sold on the prospect of selecting Flournoy, who was expected to have been Hillary Clinton’s selection for defense secretary had she won the presidency in 2016.\nBenjamin said it was an encouraging sign that Biden is taking so long to announce his defense secretary pick.\n“There’s division within the Biden team about this and they recognize that she is an unpopular pick within a number of groups and influential people,” Benjamin said. “Even if she does get nominated we will work hard to not have her confirmed.”\nBiden should select someone like Obama’s former Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson to serve as his defense secretary, Benjamin said, citing his stated position that America being embroiled in international conflicts cannot be the new normal.\nIn addition to speaking out against a potential Flournoy nomination, Benjamin said Biden’s current national security team doesn’t inspire optimism within the progressive community.\n“We haven’t seen in these picks around national security issues anybody with fresh new thinking,” Benjamin said. “We think that somebody needs to come in that understands that it’s a different world and that we don’t want to go back to the way things were under Obama.”\n“We want to get out of these damn wars and the fact that the Democrats and Republicans in Congress come together every time Trump wants to get us out of something like Afghanistan they team up and say no,” she said. “It’s ridiculous.”\n“It’s really sick that the new normal is to be at war,” Benjamin said. “It should not be like that, and somebody’s got to come in who just tells it like it is and says people in the Middle East have to learn to get along with each other and we’re not going to be there as an interventionist force.”\nContent created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org.}}
{{In this Jan. 6, 2021, photo, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Ky., walks from the Senate floor to his office on Capitol Hill in Washington. Now that the House has impeached President Donald Trump for the second time, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi must figure out the best strategy for arguing the case before the Senate. Senate rules say the trial must start soon after the chamber receives the article of impeachment, which cites “incitement of insurrection” after an angry mob of Trump’s supporters invaded the Capitol last week. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta)\nWASHINGTON (AP) — Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell opened the Senate on Tuesday saying the pro-Trump mob that stormed the Capitol was “fed lies” by the president and others in the deadly riot to overturn Democrat Joe Biden election.\nMcConnell’s remarks are his most severe and public rebuke of outgoing President Donald Trump. The Republican leader vowed a “safe and successful” inauguration of Biden on Wednesday at the Capitol, which is under extremely tight security.\n“The mob was fed lies,” McConnell said. “They were provoked by the president and other powerful people, and they tried to use fear and violence to stop a specific proceeding of branch of the federal government.”\nMcConnell said after Biden’s inauguration on the Capitol’s West Front — what he noted former President George H.W. Bush has called “democracy’s front porch” — “We’ll move forward.”\nTrump’s last full day in office Tuesday is also senators’ first day back since the deadly Capitol siege, an unparalleled time of transition as the Senate presses ahead to his impeachment trial and starts confirmation hearings on President-elect Joe Biden’s Cabinet.\nThree new Democratic senators-elect are set to be sworn into office Wednesday shortly after Biden’s inauguration at the Capitol, which is under extreme security since the bloody pro-Trump riot. The new senators’ arrival will give the Democrats the slimmest majority, a 50-50 divided Senate chamber, with the new vice president, Kamala Harris, swearing them in and serving as an eventual tie-breaking vote.\nSenate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer are set to confer Tuesday about the arrangements ahead, according to a person familiar with the planning and granted anonymity to discuss it.\nThe start of the new session of Congress will force senators to come to terms with the post-Trump era, a transfer of power like almost none other in the nation’s history. Senators are returning to a Capitol shattered from the riot, but also a Senate ground to a halt by the lawmakers’ own extreme partisanship.\nRepublican senators, in particular, face a daunting choice of whether to convict Trump of inciting the insurrection, the first impeachment trial of a president no longer in office, in a break with the defeated president who continues to hold great sway over the party but whose future is uncertain. Senators are also being asked to start confirming Biden’s Cabinet nominees and consider passage of a sweeping new $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief bill.\nIn opening remarks at his confirmation hearing, Biden’s nominee for secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Alejandro Mayorkas, vowed to get to the bottom of the “horrifying” attack on the Capitol.\nMayorkas told the Senate Homeland Security Committee that if confirmed he would do everything possible to ensure “the desecration of the building that stands as one of the three pillars of our democracy, and the terror felt by you, your colleagues, staff, and everyone present, will not happen again.”\nFive of Biden’s nominees are set for hearings Tuesday as the Senate prepares for swift confirmation of some as soon as the president-elect takes office, as is often done on Inauguration Day, particularly for the White House’s national security team.\nBiden wants the Senate to toggle between confirming his nominees, considering COVID relief and holding Trump accountable with the impeachment trial, a tall order for an institution that typically runs more slowly and with bitter confrontations.\nTrump’s impeachment is forcing Republican senators to re-evaluate their relationship with the outgoing president who is charged with inciting a mob of supporters to storm the Capitol as Congress was counting the Electoral College votes to confirm Biden’s election. A protester died during the riot and a police officer died later of injuries; three other people involved died of medical emergencies.\nThe House impeached Trump last week on a sole charge, incitement of insurrection, making him the only president to be twice impeached. He had been impeached in 2019 over relations with Ukraine and was acquitted in 2020 by the Senate.\nSchumer, who is poised to become the majority leader, and McConnell are set to meet Tuesday to discuss the power-sharing agreement and schedule ahead — for Trump’s trial, confirming Biden’s nominees and consideration of the incoming president’s $1.9 trillion COVID relief package.\nThree Democratic senators, Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff of Georgia, and Alex Padilla of California, are to be sworn into office Wednesday, according to the person granted anonymity to discuss planning.\nWarnock and Ossoff defeated Republican incumbents in this month’s runoff elections. Georgia’s secretary of state is expected to certify the election results Tuesday. Padilla was tapped by California’s governor to fill the remainder of Harris’ Senate term.\nThe Senate leaders also must negotiate a power-sharing agreement for the Senate that was last split so narrowly nearly 20 years ago, as they divvy up committee assignments and other resources.}}
{{In this Jan. 6, 2021, photo, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Ky., walks from the Senate floor to his office on Capitol Hill in Washington. Now that the House has impeached President Donald Trump for the second time, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi must figure out the best strategy for arguing the case before the Senate. Senate rules say the trial must start soon after the chamber receives the article of impeachment, which cites “incitement of insurrection” after an angry mob of Trump’s supporters invaded the Capitol last week. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta)\nWASHINGTON (AP) — Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell opened the Senate on Tuesday saying the pro-Trump mob that stormed the Capitol was “fed lies” by the president and others in the deadly riot to overturn Democrat Joe Biden election.\nMcConnell’s remarks are his most severe and public rebuke of outgoing President Donald Trump. The Republican leader vowed a “safe and successful” inauguration of Biden on Wednesday at the Capitol, which is under extremely tight security.\n“The mob was fed lies,” McConnell said. “They were provoked by the president and other powerful people, and they tried to use fear and violence to stop a specific proceeding of branch of the federal government.”\nMcConnell said after Biden’s inauguration on the Capitol’s West Front — what he noted former President George H.W. Bush has called “democracy’s front porch” — “We’ll move forward.”\nTrump’s last full day in office Tuesday is also senators’ first day back since the deadly Capitol siege, an unparalleled time of transition as the Senate presses ahead to his impeachment trial and starts confirmation hearings on President-elect Joe Biden’s Cabinet.\nThree new Democratic senators-elect are set to be sworn into office Wednesday shortly after Biden’s inauguration at the Capitol, which is under extreme security since the bloody pro-Trump riot. The new senators’ arrival will give the Democrats the most slim majority, a 50-50 divided Senate chamber, with the new vice president, Kamala Harris, swearing them in and serving as an eventual tie-breaking vote.\nSenate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer are set to confer Tuesday about the arrangements ahead, according to a person familiar with the planning and granted anonymity to discuss it.\nThe start of the new session of Congress will force senators to come to terms with the post-Trump era, a transfer of power like almost none other in the nation’s history. Senators are returning to a Capitol shattered from the riot, but also a Senate ground to a halt by the lawmakers’ own extreme partisanship.\nRepublican senators, in particular, face a daunting choice of whether to convict Trump of inciting the insurrection, the first impeachment trial of a president no longer in office, in a break with the defeated president who continues to hold great sway over the party but whose future is uncertain. Senators are also being asked to start confirming Biden’s Cabinet nominees and consider passage of a sweeping new $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief bill.\nIn opening remarks at his confirmation hearing, Biden’s nominee for secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Alejandro Mayorkas, vowed to get to the bottom of the “horrifying” attack on the Capitol.\nMayorkas told the Senate Homeland Security Committee that if confirmed he would do everything possible to ensure “the desecration of the building that stands as one of the three pillars of our democracy, and the terror felt by you, your colleagues, staff, and everyone present, will not happen again.”\nFive of Biden’s nominees are set for hearings Tuesday as the Senate prepares for swift confirmation of some as soon as the president-elect takes office, as is often done on Inauguration Day, particularly for the White House’s national security team.\nBiden wants the Senate to toggle between confirming his nominees, considering COVID relief and holding Trump accountable with the impeachment trial, a tall order for an institution that typically runs more slowly and with bitter confrontations.\nTrump’s impeachment is forcing Republican senators to re-evaluate their relationship with the outgoing president who is charged with inciting a mob of supporters to storm the Capitol as Congress was counting the Electoral College votes to confirm Biden’s election. A protester died during the riot and a police officer died later of injuries; three other people involved died of medical emergencies.\nThe House impeached Trump last week on a sole charge, incitement of insurrection, making him the only president to be twice impeached. He had been impeached in 2019 over relations with Ukraine and was acquitted in 2020 by the Senate.\nSchumer, who is poised to become the majority leader, and McConnell are set to meet Tuesday to discuss the power-sharing agreement and schedule ahead — for Trump’s trial, confirming Biden’s nominees and consideration of the incoming president’s $1.9 trillion COVID relief package.\nThree Democratic senators, Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff of Georgia, and Alex Padilla of California, are to be sworn into office Wednesday, according to the person granted anonymity to discuss planning.\nWarnock and Ossoff defeated Republican incumbents in this month’s runoff elections. Georgia’s secretary of state is expected to certify the election results Tuesday. Padilla was tapped by California’s governor to fill the remainder of Harris’ Senate term.\nThe Senate leaders also must negotiate a power-sharing agreement for the Senate that was last split so narrowly nearly 20 years ago, as they divvy up committee assignments and other resources.}}
{{New Delhi [India], May 30 (ANI): Singer Camila Cabello is the recent name to join the growing list of celebrities from the entertainment industry who have come forward to express outrage over the death of George Floyd.\nFloyd, an African-American man, was detained and subsequently died in police custody in Minneapolis on Monday.\nA bystander video recording showed a cop kneeling on Floyd's neck for at least eight minutes, while Floyd was saying that he could not breathe.\nTaking to Instagram, Cabello wrote: "I've been trying to find the right words to say after I saw the video where George Floyd's life is being taken from him with impunity."\n"I am so sorry to George Floyd's family and Ahmaud Arbery's family, And Breonna Taylor's family and to the countless other black families that have their children and parents being taken away from them," the 'Havana' singer noted.\nExpressing solidarity with the people in the fight against injustice, the 23-year-old singer added: "We need a change, we can't afford to be silent, and we can't afford a society that's indifferent to others pain."\nBefore Cabello, many big names from the music industry including Beyonce, and Rihanna took their respective social media handles to address the ongoing racism issues.\nBeyonce, through a video message on Instagram, explained how "broken and disgusted" she feels about the situation, the issue of racism, that is going on in America.\nBeyonce_inline_30-5-20.PNG" alt="" class="img-responsive">\nSinger Rihanna, too, took to Twitter to demand justice, and wrote: "If intentional MURDER is the fit consequence for "drugs" or "resisting arrest"....then what's the fit consequence for MURDER???"\nRihanna_inline_30-5-20.PNG" alt="" class="img-responsive">\nThe 46-year-old man's death has sparked outrage across the nation and protests in Minneapolis. (ANI)}}
{{THE killer blast which devastated Beirut has sparked a starvation crisis in the city as it vaporised its already chronically low food reserves.\nLebanon's main grain silo was destroyed in the explosion leaving the nation with less than a month's reserves and leading to claims children could even starve to death.\n⚠️ Read our Beirut live blog for the latest news & updates\n6 Lebanon's main grain silo was destroyed in the explosion leaving the nation with less than a month's reserves Credit: AFP or licensors\nThe tragedy came just a week after Save the Children reported half a million children were already going hungry in Beirut.\nRising number of families are struggling to survive due to the economic shockwaves of the crippling coronavirus lockdown.\nTuesday's explosion completely destroyed Lebanon's largest port - making it virtually impossible to import food and other aid by sea.\nLebanon imports up to 80 percent of its food needs and is particularly reliant on soft wheat from overseas to make flatbread.\nAbout 85 per cent of the country's cereals were stored in now destroyed silos at the port, according to trading company Mena Commodities.\n6 Beirut relies on its port for much-needed food supplies Credit: AP:Associated Press\n6 Save the Children says in the Greater Beirut area almost one million people do not have money to buy essentials Credit: AP:Associated Press\nEven the wheat that survived the blast has been made inedible by the explosion - believed to have been caused by sacks of fertiliser chemicals.\nSave the Children says in the Greater Beirut area almost one million people do not have money to buy essentials, including sufficient food.\nThis number included more than half a million children, it said, according to ABC.\n"We will start seeing children dying from hunger before the end of the year," said Jad Sakr, acting Country Director of the charity in Lebanon.\nLebanon is currently going through a chronic economic crisis which has been exacerbated by the pandemic.\nSince September, prices for basic items such as food and shelter have soared by 169 per cent while unemployment has risen up to 45 percent.\nA recent World Food Program-survey showed revealed one in five Lebanese families skipped meals or went without food for a whole day.\nAfter the blast, Mr Sakr said: "The incident could not have occurred at a worse time and has hit communities who were already suffering from the impact of the COVID-19 crisis."\n6 The tragedy left 135 dead and thousands more injured Credit: AFP or licensors\n6 Lebanon's economy minister Raoul Nehme told Reuters his country was okay for now Credit: Getty Images - Getty\n"Beirut's main port, now completely damaged, is vital for much of the food, grains, and fuel that Lebanon imports, and families will immediately feel the shortage in basic needs as a result of this tragedy."\nLebanon's economy minister Raoul Nehme told Reuters his country was okay for now.\n"There is no bread or flour crisis," the minister said.\n"We have enough inventory and boats on their way to cover the needs of Lebanon on the long term."\nHe said grain reserves in Lebanon's remaining silos stood at "a bit less than a month" but said the destroyed silos had only held 15,000 tonnes of the grain at the time.\nBeirut's port district was a mangled wreck, disabling the main entry point for imports to feed a nation of more than six million people.\nAhmed Tamer, the director of Tripoli port, Lebanon's second biggest facility, said his port did not have grain storage but cargoes could be taken to warehouses about one mile away.\nAlongside Tripoli, the ports of Saida, Selaata and Jiyeh were also equipped to handle grain, the economy minister said.\n"We fear there will be a huge supply chain problem, unless there is an international consensus to save us," said Hani Bohsali, head of the importers' syndicate.\nU.N. agencies are meeting on Wednesday to coordinate relief efforts for Beirut, Tamara al-Rifai, a spokeswoman for the Palestinian refugee agency UNRWA, told Reuters from Amman.\nMost read in News WORMS FEARS Has your child got threadworms? Here's the symptoms - and how cure them GREAT DEFENDERS We test suncreams for the heatwave - so is a £3 one as good as a £30 one? TO CATCH A CHEAT Furious wife beats and strips her husband's suspected mistress in the street - but crowd does nothing ‘WE LIVE ON AIR’ 'Breatharian' couple claim they have barely eaten for NINE YEARS Hard Luck A deadly breed of spider which gives bite victims painful ERECTIONS is in the UK Filming fun Where was hit comedy RTE series The Young Offenders filmed?\n"People are extremely poor, it's increasingly difficult for anyone to buy food and the fact that Beirut is the largest port in Lebanon makes it a very bad situation," she said.\n"We are looking at Tripoli, but it is a much smaller port."\nLebanon is trying to transfer immediately four vessels carrying 25,000 tonnes of flour to the port in Tripoli, one official told LBCI news channel.}}
{{The College Football Hall of Fame was damaged and looted in the riots which hit downtown Atlanta on Friday as part of the wave of unrest after the police killing of George Floyd.\nRiots broke out across the US in the wake of Floyd's death, but Atlanta was among the areas worst hit as a state of emergency was declared and the National Guard called in.\nThe destruction included damage to the College Hall of Fame, which had its windows smashed and gift shop raided.\nIt is said to be unclear whether the museum section of the building was affected by the vandalism.\nA very tough night for downtown Atlanta. This is the College Football Hall of Fame. #AtlantaProtestpic.twitter.com/K7vt95n8lV — Blayne Alexander (@ReporterBlayne) May 30, 2020\n“Protesters continue damaging businesses, looting and setting fire to buildings,” said Sgt. John Chafee of the Atlanta Police Department on Saturday morning.\n“There has been looting at the College Football Hall of Fame… and many other businesses.\n"We are grateful for the assistance being provided by multiple local and state law enforcement partners as we work to minimize the damage being caused by these individuals and to restore order in our city.”\nAlso on rt.com 'Nothing else we can do to let our voices be heard': Protesters say violent riots the only way to get George Floyd justice\nThe death of 46-year-old African American Floyd in Minneapolis has sparked peaceful protest but also violent outrage across the country.\nAs well as the College Hall of Fame building in Atlanta, demonstrators smashed police cars and targeted the CNN headquarters in the city.}}
{{A huge explosion in a port warehouse district near the centre of Beirut killed more than 25 people, injured over 2,500 others and sent shockwaves across the Lebanese capital on Tuesday, shattering windows and causing apartment balconies to collapse.\nOfficials expected the death toll to rise sharply as emergency workers dug through rubble across a swathe of the city to rescue people and remove the dead. It was the most powerful blast to hit Beirut in years, making the ground tremble. "What we are witnessing is a huge catastrophe," the head of Lebanon's Red Cross George Kettani told broadcaster Mayadeen. "There are victims and casualties everywhere - in all the streets and areas near and far from the explosion."\nThree hours after the blast, which struck shortly after 6 p.m. (1500 GMT), a fire still blazed in the port district, casting an orange glow across the night sky as helicopters hovered and ambulance sirens sounded across the capital. A security source said victims were being taken for treatment outside the city because Beirut hospitals were already packed with wounded. Red Cross ambulances from the north and south of the country and the Bekaa valley to the east were called in to cope with the huge casualty toll.\nThe blast was so big that some residents in the city, where memories of heavy shelling during the 1975 to 1990 civil war live on, thought an earthquake had struck. Dazed, weeping and, wounded, people walked through streets searching for relatives. Lebanon's interior minister said initial information indicated highly explosive material, seized years ago, that had been stored at the port had blown up. The minister later told Al Jadeed TV ammonium nitrate had been in storage there since 2014.\nFootage of the explosion shared by residents on social media showed a column of smoke rising from the port district followed by an enormous blast, sending a ball of white smoke and fireball into the sky. Those filming the incident from high buildings 2 km (more than a mile) from the port were thrown backwards by the shock. Lebanon's health minister said more than 25 people had been killed and more than 2,500 were injured. Lebanon's Red Cross said hundreds of people had been taken to hospitals.\nDAY OF MOURNING Lebanese President Michel Aoun called for an emergency meeting of the country's Supreme Defence Council, according to the presidency's Twitter account. Prime Minister Hassan Diab called for a day of mourning on Wednesday.\nThe explosion occurred three days before a U.N.-backed court is due to deliver a verdict in the trial of four suspects from the Shi'ite group Hezbollah over a 2005 bombing which killed former Prime Minister Rafik al-Hariri and 21 other people. Hariri was killed in another huge blast on the waterfront, although on that occasion it was caused by a truck bomb.\nIt was not immediately clear what caused Tuesday's blaze that set off the blast. Internal Security Chief Abbas Ibrahim, touring the port area, said he would not pre-empt investigations. An Israeli official said Israel, which has fought several wars with Lebanon, had nothing to do with the blast.\nThe governor of Beirut port told Sky News that a team of firefighters at the scene had "disappeared" after the explosion. "I saw a fireball and smoke billowing over Beirut. People were screaming and running, bleeding. Balconies were blown off buildings. Glass in high-rise buildings shattered and fell to the street," said a Reuters witness.\nResidents said glass was broken in houses from Raouche, on the Mediterranean city's western tip, to Rabieh 10 km (6 miles) east). In Cyprus, a Mediterranean island 110 miles (180 km) across the sea from Beirut, residents heard the blast bangs. One resident in Nicosia said his house and window shutters shook. "All the downtown area windows are smashed and there are wounded people walking around. It is total chaos," a Reuters witness said.}}
{{The jury in the murder trial of former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin has reached a verdict over the fatal arrest of George Floyd.\nThe verdict will be announced when the court reconvenes at 4.30 pm ET, according to a notice posted on the Hennepin County Court's website.\n23 Derek Chauvin pictured in court Credit: AP\n23 George FLoyd with his daughter in a court handout photo Credit: Hennepin County Courthouse\nJurors deliberated for four hours on Monday and resumed deliberating this morning at 9am.\nIt's unclear when the decision was reached.\nAs each of the charges against Chauvin was separate, jurors had to reach a separate verdict for each count. They had to conclude Chauvin's actions were a “substantial causal factor” in Floyd’s death and that his use of force was unreasonable.\nIf found guilty of all three counts, Chauvin could face a maximum sentence of up to 75 years in prison.\nDeliberations over Chauvin's fate began on Monday afternoon after both the prosecution and defense made their closing arguments for conviction and acquittal, respectively, summing up the evidence.\nDuring the three-week trial, prosecutors set out to prove that Chauvin acted recklessly when he knelt down on George Floyd's neck for nine minutes and 29 seconds during an arrest on Memorial Day last year.\nThat neck restraint, prosecutors argued, was the direct cause of Floyd's death and laid out evidence that he died from low levels of oxygen.\nThe defense, meanwhile, countered that Chauvin had acted within reason by restraining Floyd, who they claimed had been non-compliant and under the influence of drugs.\nLed by attorney Eric Nelson, the defense argued that Floyd had in fact died from a heart attack brought on by a myriad of factors, including heart disease and drug use.\nA total of 45 witnesses were called to the stand throughout the course of the trial - 38 for the state and seven for the defense - including the Minneapolis police chief and other officers who openly condemned Chauvin’s actions.\n23 That neck restraint, prosecutors argued, was the direct cause of Floyd's death and laid out evidence that he died from low levels of oxygen Credit: Rex\n23 Deliberations over Chauvin's fate began on Monday afternoon Credit: Reuters\nChauvin 'betrayed the badge'\nDuring closing arguments on Monday, prosecutor Steve Schleicher argued to the jury that Chauvin had violated his sworn police oath to protect and serve the community when he knelt down on Floyd's neck.\nSchleicher told jurors on Monday morning that policing is about "wearing your badge over your heart", but said Chauvin's "badge wasn't in the right place" during Floyd's arrest.\n“The motto of the Minneapolis Police Department is to protect with courage. And to serve with compassion. But George Floyd was not a threat to anyone. He was not trying to hurt anyone. He was not trying to do anything to anyone," he said,\n“For 9 minutes and 29 seconds. He begged, George Floyd begged until he could speak no more, and the defendant continued. This assault. When he was unable to speak, the defendant continued.\n“When he was unable to breathe the defendant continued. Beyond the point that he had a pulse. Beyond the point that he had a pulse, the defendant continued this assault. Nine minutes and 29 seconds.”\nHe then told the court that Chauvin had intent to harm Floyd, as he "had to know" the 46-year-old was in a state of medical distess.\n“He did it on purpose. This was not an accident,” he said of Chauvin.\n“He is not on trial for who he was. He is on trial for what he did. That is what he did,” Schleicher’s said as he pointed to a photo of Chauvin with his knee on Floyd’s neck.\n“He knew better, he just didn’t do better.”\n23 Prosecutor Steve Schleicher accused Chauvin on betraying his police oath Credit: AP\n23 Prosecutors claimed Chauvin intended to harm Floyd Credit: Reuters\n'Believe your eyes'\nBefore concluding his final appeal to the jury, Schleicher urged the panel of seven women and five men to “believe” their eyes in his closing remarks, referencing the now-infamous video of Floyd’s final moments of life, which sparked outrage in May last year.\n“What you have to find is that 9 minutes and 29 seconds, with knees on his neck and on his back, being held down, was a substantial factor in George Floyd’s death,” he said. “We know how George Floyd died.\n“This case is exactly what you thought when you saw it first, when you saw that video. It is exactly that,” Schleicher said.\n“You can believe your eyes… It’s exactly what you knew. It’s what you felt in your gut. It’s what you now know in your heart. This wasn’t policing; this was murder. The defendant is guilty of all three counts. All of them. And there is no excuse.”\nSchleicher also showed the jury a picture of some of the injuries sustained by Floyd during the arrest, as he squirmed and struggled under the knee of Chauvin, begging for his life.\nPictures of some of the injuries sustained by Floyd\nOne of the pictures shows a bruise and abrasions to the left side of Floyd's face. Others show cuts to his knuckles and a bloody graze on his left shoulder.\nHe asked the jury to look at the images and ask themselves one question before delivering a verdict against Chauvin: If not for the cop's restraint, would Floyd have died last May?\nSchleicher further stressed that within just the first four minutes of the restraint, Floyd had complained he couldn't breathe 27 times.\n"The only thing about [the] defendant's intent that we have to prove is that he applied force to George Floyd on purpose," Schleicher said.\n"Somebody's telling you they can't breathe, and you keep doing it. You're doing it on purpose. ... How can you justify the continued force on this man when he has no pulse."\n23 Prosecutors said jurors should believe what they see in the video Credit: Reuters\n23 Earlier in the trial, Floyd was described as a loving, family man Credit: Facebook\nFloyd died from 'low oxygen levels'\nDr. Martin Tobin, a renowned pulmonologist and perhaps the prosecutions strongest witness, told the court that Floyd was placed in a "vice" while being pinned to the street that left him "trying to breathe with his fingers and knuckles."\nHe added that he was able to see signs of brain damage in Floyd after watching only five minutes and three seconds of the footage of his arrest.\nTobin, who has been a lung and critical care specialist for more than 45 years, claimed that Chauvin was kneeling on Floyd's neck for up to 90 percent of that time.\nHe said that for 57 percent of that time, Chauvin's other knee was on Floyd's back.\n23 Dr. Martin Tobin, a renowned pulmonologist Credit: Reuters\n23 A picture shown in court, showing Chauvin applying pressure to Floyd's neck Credit: Reuters\nTobin told the jurors that Floyd died "from a low level of oxygen" that was caused by "shallow breathing."\nHe answered no when asked whether Floyd died a sudden death.\n"One second he’s alive and one second he’s no longer," Tobin said of the exact moment Floyd died in the footage.\n"That's the moment the life goes out of his body.\n"He was taking shallow breaths that weren’t able to carry the air through his lungs, down to the essential areas in the lungs," Tobin added.\nChauvin 'should have stopped'\nOne of the most sensational pieces of testimony was delivered on the stand by Minneapolis Police Chief Medaria Arradondo, who openly condemned the actions of Chauvin during Floyd's arrest.\nArradondo said Chauvin - who was fired from the department after Floyd's death - failed to follow department use-of-force, de-escalation, and duty to render air policies.\n"I absolutely agree that violates our policy," Chief Arrandondo said when asked about Chauvin's tactics by the prosecutor.\n"That is not part of our policy; that is not what we teach," he added.\nHe later added that Chauvin's actions may have been acceptable during "the first few seconds" of his interaction with Floyd, but not after the man was subdued.\n“Once Mr. Floyd had stopped resisting, and certainly once he was in distress and trying to verbalize that, that should have stopped,” Arradondo said.\n23 Minneapolis Police Chief Medaria Arradondo Credit: AP\n23 Arradondo said Chauvin - who was fired from the department after Floyd's death - failed to follow department use-of-force policies Credit: AP\n'Not an incident of deadly force'\nMuch of the defense's case focused on the argument that Chauvin had acted reasonably when he restrained Floyd, who was often painted as non-compliant to police orders.\nOne of attorney Eric Nelson's key witnesses to argue this point of view was former cop-turned-use-of-force expert, Barry Brodd.\nBrodd compared the neck restraint used by Chauvin for nine minutes and 29 seconds to an officer firing a stun gun at a suspect who falls, hits their head, and then dies.\n"This isn't an incident of deadly force," he declared before the jury. "That's an incident of an accidental death."\n23 Barry Brodd Credit: Alamy\n23 Brodd compared the neck restraint used by Chauvin for nine minutes and 29 seconds to an officer firing a stun gun at a suspect who falls, hits their head, and then dies Credit: Reuters\nHe testified that his review of the evidence led him to the opinion that the type of force Chauvin used on George Floyd was justified and that the former Minneapolis police officer "was acting with objective reasonableness following Minneapolis Police Department policy and current standards of law enforcement in his interactions with Mr. Floyd."\nBrodd's testimony offered a drastic contrast from the dozens of witnesses who testified for the defense, concluding Floyd had died from low oxygen caused by Chauvin's restraint.\nOn cross-examination, he also said that police were justified in pinning down Floyd because he kept resisting instead of "resting comfortably".\n"Did you say 'resting comfortably'?" Prosecutor Steve Schleicher asked in response.\n"Or laying comfortably," Brodd answered.\n"Resting comfortably on the pavement?" the prosecutor continued, to which Brodd responded, "Yes".\n23 Brodd said the use of force used against Floyd was justified Credit: Court TV/POOL\n23 Floyd was often painted as non-compliant by the defense Credit: CNN\nChauvin 'acted reasonably'\nDuring his closing arguments yesterday, defense attorney Eric Nelson stressed to the jury his belief that Chauvin acted just as any other reasonable officer would have done.\nNelson noted that officers who first went to the corner store where Floyd allegedly passed a counterfeit $20 bill were struggling with Floyd when Chauvin arrived as backup.\nThe defense attorney also pointed out that the first two officers on the scene were rookies and that police had been told that Floyd might be on drugs.\n“A reasonable police officer understands the intensity of the struggle,” Nelson said, noting that Chauvin’s body camera and badge were knocked off his chest.\n23 Nelson noted that officers who first went to the corner store where Floyd allegedly passed a counterfeit $20 bill were struggling with Floyd Credit: CNN\n23 Chauvin acted just as any other reasonable officer would have done, the defense argued Credit: Reuters\nNelson also showed the jury pictures of pills found in Floyd’s SUV and pill remnants discovered in the squad car. Fentanyl and methamphetamine were found in Floyd’s system.\nThe defense attorney said the failure of the prosecution to acknowledge that medical problems or drugs played a role “defies medical science and it defies common sense and reason.”\n'His heart was too small'\nCo-prosecutor Jerry Blackwell had the last word during closing arguments while rebutting Nelson's marathon near-three-hour effort to persuade the jury to acquit Chauvin on all counts.\nBlackwell noted how the defense referenced Floyd having a heart that was too big, which they say caused his death, and countered, "The reason George Floyd is dead is because Mr. Chauvin's heart is too small."\nThe co-prosecutor, who is black, added that the questions about the use of force and cause of death are “so simple that a child can understand it.”\n“In fact, a child did understand it, when the 9-year-old girl said, ‘Get off of him,’” Blackwell said, referring to a young witness who objected to what she saw. "That’s how simple it was. `Get off of him.' Common sense.”\n23 Co-prosecutor Jerry Blackwell had the last word during closing arguments Credit: Reuters\n'Hostile crowd distracted Chauvin'\nDefense attorney Nelson also argued on Monday that angry bystanders gathered at the scene of George Floyd’s fatal arrest distracted the ex-cop at a “critical moment”.\n“As this crowd grew more and more upset or deeper into crisis, a very critical thing happens at a very precise moment,” attorney Eric Nelson told jurors, claiming it was at this moment that Floyd took his last breath.\nIt was at this moment, Nelson said, that Chauvin pulled out a can of pepper spray into the crowd’s reactions. He also said Chauvin was “startled” by an off-duty firefighter who approached him from behind.\n“All of these facts and circumstances simultaneously occur at a critical moment,” Nelson said. “And that changed Officer Chauvin’s perception of what was happening.”\nNelson added that, because Chauvin was aware he was being filmed, he couldn't have possibly intended to kill Floyd.\nHe also added that earlier in the arrest, Chauvin rolled window inside a police cruiser and turned on air conditioning when Floyd said he couldn’t breathe.\nChauvin “didn’t intend to use unlawful force” on Floyd, Nelson concluded.\n“There is absolutely no evidence that officer Chauvin intentionally applied unlawful force.”\n23 The bystanders are shown above Credit: AP\n23 Nelson said Chauvin had no intent to inflict harm Credit: AP\nJudge warns of potential grounds for appeal\nBefore sending the jury away to begin deliberations, Judge Peter Cahill warned that comments made by Democratic Rep. Maxine Waters could be grounds for appealing a verdict in the trial.\n"I'll give you that Congresswoman Waters may have given you something on appeal that may result in this whole trial being overturned," Judge Peter Cahill told defense attorney Eric Nelson on Monday.\nSpeaking to the media on Saturday, Walters had said that if Chauvin was found not guilty for murdering Floyd, that protesters needed to get "confrontational".\n23 Judge Peter Cahill warned that comments made by Democratic Rep. Maxine Waters could be grounds for appealing a verdict in the trial Credit: AP\n"We've got to stay on the street and we've got to get more active, we've got to get more confrontational. We've got to make sure that they know that we mean businessm" she said.\n"We're looking for a guilty verdict and we're looking to see if all of the talk that took place and has been taking place after they saw what happened to George Floyd. If nothing does not happen, then we know that we got to not only stay in the street, but we have got to fight for justice," she added.\nThe defense had moved for a mistrial Monday over recent publicity in the case, including TV shows and comments by Waters.\nCahill said that he was aware of Waters' comments about "the unacceptability of anything less than a murder conviction and talk about being confrontational."\nMost read in US News BLOODSHED What to know about the active shooter in West Hempstead Stop and Shop Latest STORE SLAYING Stop & Shop employee wearing black 'kills 1 & hurts 2' in workplace rampage NUKE ALERT US must prepare for nuclear war as conflict may escalate, Strategic Command says 'KILLER' COP Officer's 'no mercy' tattoo seen in mugshot as he faces murder for 'killing 3' REBEL SURGE US Embassy in Chad told 'shelter in place or get plane out' after prez murdered HAIR MARE Dad's fury after teacher cuts his 7-year-old daughter’s hair without permission\n"I wish elected officials would stop talking about this case, especially in a manner that is disrespectful to the rule of law and to the judicial branch and our function," the judge added later.\n"I think if they want to give their opinions, they should do so in a respectful and in a manner that is consistent with their oath to the Constitution, to respect a coequal branch of government."\n"Their failure to do so, I think, is abhorrent, but I don't think it's prejudiced us with additional material that would prejudice this jury," he said, adding that "a congresswoman's opinion really doesn't matter a whole lot."}}
{{WASHINGTON — In the wake of the violent breaching of the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday and in-flight incidents involving Trump supporters, some U.S. airlines have tightened their security measures.\nAmerican Airlines said in a statement to E.W. Scripps that they increased staffing at DC-area airports as a precautionary measure and won't provide alcohol on flights to and from the airports.\n"At American, safety is our highest priority. We are working closely with local law enforcement and airport authority partners to ensure the safety of our customers and team members on the ground and in the air," a spokesperson said in a statement emailed to EW Scripps.\nThe spokesperson added that American would "continue to enforce policies that ensure our customers' and team members' safety and wellbeing."\nAmerican will not provide alcohol on any of the DC flights through Thursday night but would continue to monitor the situation.\nCurrently, American is not serving alcohol on any flights due to COVID-19.\nAlthough Delta Airlines did not go into specifics as to what security measures they'd be taking, a spokesperson told EW Scripps in an email that "there's nothing more important than protecting the integrity of the safety and security measures that keep our employees and customers safe."\n"Delta continually works with law enforcement agencies and all aviation stakeholders to enact methods - both seen and unseen - as part of our unwavering efforts to keep everyone safe at our airports and on our flights."\nIn a press release, the Association of Flight Attendants (AFA) suggested that those who flew into DC and participated in the Capitol's breaching should be banned from flying.\n"Our first priority in aviation safety and security is to keep any problems on the ground. Some of the people who traveled in our planes yesterday participated in the insurrection at the Capitol today," union president Sara Nelson said in a statement. "Their violent and seditious actions at the Capitol today create further concern about their departure from the DC area. Acts against our democracy, our government, and the freedom we claim as Americans must disqualify these individuals from the freedom of flight. We in aviation have a serious role to play in national security."\nIn coordination with TSA, DHS, FAA, DOT, and law enforcement, Nelson added that "airlines must take all steps to ensure the safety and security of passengers and crew by keeping all problems on the ground."\nThe announcement comes on the heels of problems on flights AFA saw ahead of Wednesday's planned gathering of Trump supporters in the nation's capital. In the statement, they linked to a video that showed issues arising on an American Airlines flight from Dallas to DC.\n"The mob mentality behavior that took place on several flights to the D.C. area yesterday (Wednesday) was unacceptable and threatened the safety and security of every single person on board," Nelson added. "It will not happen again."\nAccording to The New York Times, Mitt Romney was heckled by Trump supporters while flying from Salt Lake City to DC on a Delta flight Tuesday.}}
{{President-elect Joe Biden speaks during a foreign policy and national security virtual meeting at the Queen Theater December 28, 2020, in Wilmington, Delaware. He will campaign in Georgia ahead of the runoff elections.}}
{{A devastating explosion rocked Beirut, the capital of Lebanon, on Tuesday.\nThe exact cause of the blast is unknown, but a senior Lebanese intelligence official said that he suspects that confiscated high-explosive materials stored at the port, where the explosion occurred, are to blame.\nThe country's health minister said that at least 30 people are dead and more than 3,000 people are injured.\nVisit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.\nA huge explosion in the Lebanese capital of Beirut Tuesday caused widespread devastation. The number of casualties and the full extent of the damage is still emerging.\nEarly state media reporting said the the blast followed the outbreak of a fire at a fireworks storage facility at the local port, but the director of Lebanese intelligence said that it may have been caused by high-explosive materials that had been previously confiscated and stored in the area. The exact cause of the blast remains unknown.\nThe following photos, some of which are GRAPHIC, show the situation on the ground in Beirut.}}
{{The run-up to Congress counting the electoral votes tomorrow has already been quite strange. And let’s be honest, this week is bound to get even weirder. But, rest assured, no matter what happens in Congress on Wednesday, one thing will not change — Joe Biden will become president at noon on January 20th.\nAfter most presidential elections, no one really pays attention to January 6th. That’s the date that Congress formally counts the electoral votes that were determined by the November election. The Constitution sets forth the basics: “The President of the Senate shall, in the presence of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the certificates and the votes shall then be counted.” Normally, January 6th happens without much fanfare because we already know with certainty who won, and at this point, two months after the election, no one is contesting it.\nBut, as with almost everything with President Trump, the run-up to January 6th has been anything but normal. We know he is still living in his own alternate reality and has not conceded. That’s problematic in its own right, but things are even crazier than that. For instance, in just the past few days, we’ve seen:\nAny of these things alone would be concerning enough. Collectively, they are a real threat to our democratic norms as well as a forecast of what’s to come in 2024 and future elections. If the Republican Party is in the process of becoming the party that no longer will abide by election outcomes with which it disagrees, our democracy is threatened in ways that might be hard to overcome someday in the future.\nBut that day is not now. Because the Democrats control the House and enough Republicans have announced that they will vote with the Democrats in the Senate, the objections will go nowhere and we will be treated to this deliciously ironic spectacle tomorrow: Vice President Pence announcing the vote totals showing that Joe Biden won.\nNonsense lawsuits, political stunts, inflammatory speeches, high-stakes votes, large-scale protests, threats of or actual violence — all are real possibilities as the Trump fanatics rage against their dying light. Absolutely no one knows exactly what will happen in the next 24 or 48 hours. But none of it will change the fact that Joe Biden will become the next President of the United States.}}
{{AUSTIN (KXAN) — Sen. John Cornyn will not call on Sen. Ted Cruz to resign or be removed from office in the wake of the riot at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 that left five people dead.\nCruz volunteered to argue Texas’ failed lawsuit to overturn election results in four battleground states and objected to the certification of Electoral College votes that preceded the deadly riot.\nCornyn, Texas’ senior U.S. Senator and a fellow Republican, does not believe Cruz bears any responsibility for the riot.\n“No, I don’t,” Cornyn said in an interview with KXAN on Thursday. “Free speech gives people the right to be wrong. It gives them a right to express their strongly held views.”\nBrian Smith, a political science professor at St. Andrew’s University in Austin, said Cruz is unlikely to resign unless leading Texas Republicans make the demand.\n“For Ted Cruz, he’s always been a smart politician. Whether you like him or not, he’s very strategic, and if he thinks he can hang on, he’s not going to resign,” Smith said.\nVideo captured by a reporter for “The New Yorker” shows one rioter at the U.S. Capitol using Cruz as justification.\n“Cruz would want us to do this,” the man said.}}
{{WASHINGTON (NewsNation Now) — President-elect Joe Biden plans to formally introduce Judge Merrick Garland as his pick for attorney general on Thursday, along with three other nominees to lead the U.S. Justice Department.\nBiden will announce the nominations from an event in Wilmington, Delaware, on Thursday. He's expected to deliver remarks at around 1:30 p.m. ET, introducing Lisa Monaco as his nominee for deputy attorney general, Vanita Gupta for associate attorney general and Kristen Clarke for assistant attorney general for the department's Civil Rights Division.}}
{{Florida law is clear: an elected official at any level may not “Use his or her official authority or influence for the purpose of interfering with an election or a nomination of office or coercing or influencing another person’s vote or affecting the result thereof.”\nOn Monday, Flagler County Commissioner Joe Mullins used official commission letterhead to address Florida’s congressional delegation, urging its members to reject the electoral vote counts “of certain states” in President-Elect Joe Biden’s favor. The letter repeats baseless, false, misleading, conspiratorial and widely discredited claims that Biden’s election was fraudulent.\nMullins posted the letter on his Facebook page the day it was dated, stating: “I proudly sent this today to show where we stand in Flagler and Florida. We clearly elected Trump and will not tolerate election fraud.”\nMullins did not have the approval of other county commissioners to write the letter under the Flagler Commission’s letterhead. The letter was not discussed by the commission, nor did other commissioners have advance knowledge of it. Commissioners have their own business cards but don’t have their own stationery. The stationery Mullins used doesn’t include the names of other commissioners, but prominently displays his name on every page, his designation as a District 4 representative, and his title as a Flagler County commissioner, at least implying that he is speaking for the commission.\nCounty Commission Chairman Donald O’Brien categorically rejected any commission association with the letter or its implications when he became aware of it this morning, after a reporter brought it to his attention.\n“I don’t know anything about any letter. Is it on county comm stationery?” O’Brien asked. When told that it was, he said it did not reflect the commission’s voice nor was it the result of any commission involvement. “Absolutely no, no, no, that is not official business of the county commission,” O’Brien said. Asked if he was supportive of its content, he said: “Absolutely not, I would not–that’s why I’m asking if my name is on it.”\n“I don’t know that I can stop him from doing that, I’m not happy about it,” O’Brien said, stressing that “I’ve got a major problem with that” if it reflects any sense of commission endorsement of the content. The letter does not do so, beyond implicitly implying endorsement through the use of commission stationery. “I’m at a loss, because I haven’t seen it, I don’t know anything about it,” the chairman said.\nThough he signed it, Mullins did not write the letter. It was lifted almost word for word from a Dec. 23 letter that appears to have originated from Anthony Sabatini, the Lake County Florida House member. Mullins used the same words, layout, fonts and addressees, adding a two-line paragraph about himself “coming to Washington, DC on January 6th with a group of 160 of my neighbors who want to show their support for this action.”\nIt isn’t clear if Mullins in any way utilized the services of the county administration to format the letter on to commission stationery, though in the past Mullins has inappropriately used the administration and its PR office to publicize personal acts, such as donations to local charities, and he routinely blurs official and private business on his weekly radio infomercial and Facebook page, seldom making a distinction that he is not speaking for the commission.\nThe Sabatini letter, long discredited, makes false allegations such Post Office backdating of ballots or the accepting of ballots without postmarks, claims of “Equal Protection Clause Violations in every single [sic.] of the six contested states,” false claims of lost or destroyed absentee ballots in Arizona, and so on. Some 60 lawsuits by the Trump administration or its proxies have been dismissed, thrown out or ridiculed, often with stern and harsh language, by judges at every level, including the United States Supreme Court. Every state, under Republican or Democratic control, has certified the election results, and while minor instances of fraud shadow every election in every state in all history, nothing close to the widespread freud–or fraud that would in any way alter the results–has been documented by officials or even by Trump proxies and Trump himself, though the baseless claims, amplified by social media disinformation and misguided protests, have continued.\n“I had no idea that there was any such thing,” Commissioner Andy Dance said. He, too, became aware of the letter only when a reporter told him of it. “I don’t like the fact that he used the commission letterhead or made the assumption that it was commission-related.” Dance, who served on the Flagler County School Board for 12 years until last November, was under the impression there was one official county letterhead–as opposed to individualized letterheads–and that if a message was disseminated from the county, “that’s what you should be using. We went through this process at the school district and we came up with our manual, so I know that was addressed in the school manual to try to avert some of these issues.”\nAs for the content of the Mullins letter, Dance, who stressed the importance of focusing on local issues, said: “That’s a long answer that I don’t want to get into, so at this point I wouldn’t have signed on to Joe’s letter as you read it to me, so I think there’s issues that should be addressed but the election itself is probably going to stand and I think we have to move on as a country.”\n“I’m aware of the letter, that’s it, no other involvement,” an impatient Commissioner Dave Sullivan said today. He said he’d looked up the letter on Facebook. He said he learned about it from Greg Hansen, after Hansen learned about it from a reporter’s call to his home (Hansen did not attend the workshop, being ill).\n“I have no comment on the letter and I’m not involved in the letter, period, that’s it, nothing,” Sullivan said. Asked about its propriety as a document that portrays itself as a county commission letter, an impatient Sullivan said: “I really don’t want to get involved in that right now. I have no comment whatsoever about it, it has nothing–it’s not my responsibility to do that at this point. If there’s a valid question that comes to the commission, I’m always willing to do it. I consider this a private issue.”\nOf course, it isn’t a private issue, the letter appearing on official county stationery, and Sullivan backed away from the comment. But he was equally equivocal when asked about the content of the letter. “President Biden will be sworn in as president on January 20, period. Whether I agree or not that’s a fact, but I believe from everything I’ve read and heard, that’s what I believe will happen, and of course we live in a society of law.” Pressed on the content of the letter, Sullivan conceded that he did not believe there’d been a fraudulent election beyond the usual, minor instances of fraud that happen in every election. He did not dispute the outcome, and said that Tuesday’s vote in Georgia appeared to prove that the November election there had been accurate.\nMullins’s apparent misuse of his position to “influence” or “interfere” with the election pales, however, in comparison with the man on whose behalf he copied the letter, following attempts by Donald Trump to convince the Georgia secretary of state to “find” enough votes to give Trump the victory there–a violation of state and federal law.Trump and his supporters have given law little heed in a scorched-earth campaign to hold power in violation of constitutional and historic norms.\nO’Brien, the commission chairman, did not want to be associated with the behavior. “If one commissioner crosses the line about what’s legal or not legal about the use of their office, that’s their problem,” the commission chairman said. “If you’re holding him to account, or other people, go ahead, chips have got to fall where they fall.”\nForegoing a commission workshop on the $10 million Marineland Acres drainage project, Mullins today was in Washington, D.C., with that group whose travel he had sponsored. He had a supporter videotape him in Flagler before the group leftm, as the Flagler County Sheriff’s Mike Lutz and two other uniformed members of the Sheriff’s Office appeared with the protesters before they departed from the county fairgrounds, with Lutz alternately giving them safety and security advice and ridiculing or insulting “anarchists” or protesters of a different political persuasion Mullins’s group might encounter in the capital, which Lutz referred to as “a dirty city. I’m sorry did I say that out loud?”\nLutz’s statements were stunning for their partisanship and derisiveness–public servants are not allowed to take sides in partisan issues when on the clock–though he clearly had a supporting audience.\n“If you’re confronted by antagonists, watch each other’s back, please, don’t turn your back on these people, keep them in your sight, they will sucker punch you, they will kick you, they will do a lot of things, be careful with that,” Lutz said, though demonstrators against police brutality over the past year have used the same language to describe police behavior. “Remain peaceful and respectful to the area you’re in because you know the press isn’t going to be nice to you guys,” Lutz said, then asking the local demonstrators to show politeness–not to fellow demonstrators, but to the police.“Try to be respectful to the area you are, it is the nation’s capital, and please be polite to law enforcement, because they have to be there.”\nMullins throughout made sure to be as close to Lutz as possible, in the video frame, though he did not speak in the clip he posted.\nOnce pro-Trump protesters reached the capital today, the problem was not “anarchists,” but law-breaking pro-Trump protesters themselves, some of them stormed the Capitol and approached the floor of the U.S. Senate, brawling with police in front of the Capitol or within it, repeatedly and at times violently confronting and insulting law enforcement. By mid-afternoon, the protesters’ violence and lawbreaking led police to skirt Vice President Pence away from the building for his safety, forced the Capitol into lockdown and halted the presidential certification process.}}
{{The Iowa State University College Republicans student group, which urged people after the November election to “arm up,” tweeted on the day this week rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol that some of its members were in Washington and it was time to “destroy” Republicans considered disloyal to the party.\n“We are in DC and Des Moines fighting for America,” the students announced Wednesday on Twitter,\nBefore insurrectionist breached the Capitol and forced lawmakers to flee, the student group also tweeted: “The brave people fighting on the front lines in DC (many are members of our club) are brave patriots.”\nWE ARE IN DC AND DES MOINES FIGHTING FOR AMERICA pic.twitter.com/HvdU72VF4C — College Republicans at Iowa State (@IStateCRs) January 6, 2021\n“We are praying for you all,” the ISU students wrote in response to a “today is the day” message from a “Million MAGA March” account promoting a massive “stop the steal” protest.\n“Destroy the RINOs,” the ISU student group wrote — referencing the term “Republican in name only” — about 30 minutes before riotous and in many cases armed supporters of President Donald Trump began clashing with police at the Capitol. At least five people, including a police officer, died in the melee.\nIn response to a request from The Gazette for comment, ISU administrators said they had none.\n“The university does not have any comment,” ISU spokeswoman Angie Hunt said. “And there has not been any communication with the student group.”\nMembers of the ISU College Republicans did not respond to any outreach from The Gazette via email, phone calls or social media messages. The students continued Thursday and Friday posting messages spreading conspiracy theories.\nIn November, ISU administrators declined to reprimand their College Republicans group for a Nov. 7 tweet — after Democrat Joe Biden was elected president — that read, “Everyone, you must arm up, expect these people to attempt to destroy your life, the elites want revenge on us.”\nA Nov. 12 open letter signed by 35 pages worth of ISU faculty, student, and staff, urged the university to — among other things — revoke recognition of the student group until every remaining member graduates. It also demanded ISU change its Student Code of Conduct to address “how the institution responds to speech by students and student organizations that promote hate, directly or indirectly threaten the physical safety and free movement of members of the campus community, potentially incite violence, or violates the Principles of Community.”\nISU leaders — including its vice president for student affairs, dean of students, provost and vice president for diversity, equity and inclusion — declined to take any action against the group, asserting the university “has a total and complete obligation to abide by the First Amendment.”\n“Upholding the First Amendment also means the university cannot deprive students or student organizations of their rights, or punish them for exercising those rights, except in a very limited set of circumstances,” which the letter said includes: “a direct threat against an individual; severe and pervasive harassment that substantially interferes with students’ education; or expression that is paired with criminal conduct (vandalism, for example).”\nNeither the University of Iowa or University of Northern Iowa college Republican groups have tweeted since this week’s attack on the Capitol.\nOther campuses nationally have faced similar issues and concerns.\nUniversity of Colorado Boulder, for example, chastised one of its visiting scholars — John Eastman — who spoke at the rally before the riot, according to a letter from CU Boulder Chancellor Phil DiStefano. Although he slammed Eastman for advocating “repugnant” conspiracy theories — noting he “embarrassed our institution” — DiStefano said his campus won’t fire him.\n“The university will not censor a faculty member’s political statements or initiate disciplinary action because it disapproves of them,” he wrote. “I will not violate the law by removing a visiting professor from a position that he will occupy at most for only a few more months, as his contract will expire in May.”\nComments: (319) 339-3158; vanessa.miller@thegazette.com}}
{{Police-on-Black violence like that experienced by George Floyd is absolutely nothing new. Over the centuries it has taken on many forms, but its outcomes have been consistent — unnecessary Black death.\n“Floyd’s murder is the latest example of 400 years worth of terrorism against Black people,” said Kofi Taharka, chairman of the National Black United Front.\n“George Floyd’s murder is emblematic of the historical relationship between Black people and law enforcement,” stated Kimathi Nelson, presiding bishop of the Pan African Orthodox Christian Church.\n“The picture of Derek Chauvin’s knee on Mr. Floyd’s neck crystalizes that relationship, from the paddy-rollers who ruthlessly patrolled plantations to police officers who have served as the tip of the spear for safeguarding the status quo.\n“I am not saying that all police officers are bad or that there are not genuine public servants in the police force. I am saying that in spite of them, the essential relationship between the law enforcement institution and Black people has been one of maintaining a racist social, economic and political order and protecting property.”\nUniversity of Houston African American Studies professor Alan Walker concurred with Nelson and Taharka.\n“Enslavement in this country was predicated upon and maintained by state-sanctioned violence against Blacks,” asserted Walker. “The U.S. police trace their roots to the armed militias formed to capture enslaved humans who escaped.\n“Upon emancipation, the KKK and other white terrorist groups, heavily membered by police, judges and politicians, used violence to maintain social control and destroy Black economic competition. And each year and decade from the late 1800s to present, police have consistently over-policed, over-arrested, over-harassed, over-incarcerated and over-killed Black people.”\nWalker added that during the Civil Rights and Black Power movements, local and state police coordinated with the nation’s highest policing organization, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, to purposefully attack, discredit and some say even murder Black leaders and organizations, primarily through its Counter-Intelligence Program (COINTELPRO) founded by then FBI director J. Edgar Hoover.\n“The murders of Black Panther members Bobby Hutton and Fred Hampton are but two examples of many of local police departments using lethal force to control Black U.S. citizens.”\nEach decade since the 1960s has had its own litany of examples where unarmed Blacks were sent to the grave while the police and others who put them there went unpunished.\nNear the middle of the 2010 decade, the seemingly back-to-back murders of Trayvon Martin (by a neighborhood watch coordinator), Michael Brown and Freddie Gray gave birth to new efforts to confront this historical issue, including Black Lives Matter. Though BLM brough much-needed attention to a historic problem, police-on-Black violence continued.\nAccording to Aljazeera.com, between 2013 and 2019, police in the United States killed 7,666 people according to data compiled by Mapping Police Violence, a research and advocacy group. In 2015, the Washington Post began to log every fatal shooting by an on-duty police officer in the U.S. in their “Fatal Force” project. In that time there have been more than 5,000 such shootings recorded by WP. This does not include Floyd’s death which was the result of a police knee to the neck.\nThe biggest change Taharka has seen over the past five years is modern technology’s ability to allow the world to see such injustices via cell phone video, as well as a newer, “fearless” generation of youth willing to confront them.\n“However, I don’t see any change in the global system of white supremacy, not even the mildest form of change to attempt to answer the peoples’ righteous cries for justice,” he added.\nFor Nelson, the difference is in the nation itself.\n“A demographic tsunami is transforming the country making it younger, more melanated, more liberal and less xenophobic. This is very threatening to the status quo which has taken on a reactionary posture. But the blatant and widespread acts of injustice by police officers against unarmed Black people are turning this demographic shift into a new political movement.\n“Just like in the 1960s, there are many stresses on society at the same time, COVID-19, historic unemployment, economic collapse, police brutality and an insensitive and divisive presidential administration. This is a toxic mix that creates conditions that threaten the stability of the social order. All over the world, America 2020 is looking more and more like South Africa 1980.”\nRemembering the fallen\nHere are some of the African Americans killed by police officers and private citizens.\nTRAYVON MARTIN (Walking home with iced tea and Skittles. Shot by George Zimmerman, who was found not guilty).\nKEITH SCOTT (Sitting in car, reading. Shot by police officer who was not charged).\nATATIANA JEFFERSON (Looking out her window, shot by police officer who is still under indictment for murder).\nJONATHAN FERRELL (Asking for help after auto accident. Shot 12 times by police, case ended in mistrial).\nJORDAN EDWARDS (Riding in a car. Shot in the back of the head by police officer who was found guilty of murder).\nSTEPHON CLARK (Holding a cell photo. Shot eight times, six in the back. Officers not charged).\nAMADOU DIALLO (While taking out wallet, officers fired 41 shots. All were acquitted).\nRENISHA MCBRIDE (In auto accident, knocked on door for help. Homeowner found guilty of second-degree murder).\nTAMIR RICE (Playing with toy gun, shot by officer arriving on scene. Officer not charged).\nSEAN BELL (Hosting bachelor party, 50 rounds fired by police officers who were found not guilty).\nERIC GARNER (Suspected of selling single cigarettes. With multiple officers restraining him, repeated “I can’t breathe” 11 times. No indictments. Officer fired five years later).\nPHILANDO CASTILE (Driving and pulled over. Shot by officer and aftermath live-streamed by fiancée in car. Officer found not guilty).\nAIYANA JONES (Sleeping, accidentally shot by officer in raid on wrong apartment. Officer cleared).\nTERRENCE CRUTCHER (Disabled vehicle, shot by police officer found not guilty of manslaughter).\nALTON STERLING (Selling CDs, shot at close range while being arrested. No charges filed).\nFREDDIE GRAY (Beaten to death by officers while being transported in police van. All officers involved acquitted).\nJOHN CRAWFORD (Shopping at WalMart, holding BB gun on sale. Officer not charged).\nMICHAEL BROWN (Shot 12 times by officer, including in back. No charges filed).\nJORDAN DAVIS (Playing loud music, killed. Shooter found guilty of first-degree murder).\nSANDRA BLAND (Pulled over for traffic ticket and arrested. Suspicious “suicide” in jail. No charges).\nBOTHAM JEAN (Shot in apartment police officer mistook for her own. Officer found guilty of murder).\nOSCAR GRANT (Handcuffed, face-down and shot in back. Officer found guilty of involuntary manslaughter).\nCOREY JONES (Waiting by his disabled vehicle, shot three times by officer who was found guilty of murder).\nAHMAUD AUBREY (Jogging, followed by father and son in truck and shot. Both men charged with murder, aggravated assault).}}
{{The Pentagon is under increasing pressure to address white supremacist and extremist ties within the ranks of the US military.\nCurrent and former members of the US military were arrested in connection with the Capitol siege on January 6.\nThe FBI is vetting thousands of troops in DC for inauguration, and the Pentagon's internal watchdog launched a probe into whether the military is doing enough to root out extremism.\nVisit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.\nFor roughly two decades, the Pentagon has treated terrorism as a largely foreign threat. Following the Capitol siege, however, the Department of Defense is finally being forced to reckon with extremists within the military's ranks after years of warnings.\nThe Capitol riot has been described as an act of domestic terrorism by President-elect Joe Biden, among other prominent politicians, a shocking act that ignited a nationwide conversation about the threat of homegrown extremism in the US.\nAhead of inauguration, the FBI has been screening troops from the DC National Guard and a number of states for potential extremist ties.\n"As is normal for military support to large security events, the Department will vet National Guardsmen who are in Washington, DC. While we have no intelligence indicating an insider threat, we are leaving no stone unturned in securing the capital," Acting Defense Secretary Chris Miller wrote in a statement on Monday. "This type of vetting often takes place by law enforcement for significant security events. However, in this case the scope of military participation is unique."\nOn Tuesday, 12 National Guard members were pulled off the security mission for Biden's inauguration, including two who were found to have ties to far-right militias. Addressing these unsettling developments, National Guard chief Gen. Dan Hokanson on Tuesday said, "Extremism is not tolerated in any branch of the U.S. military ... If there are reported issues our leaders will address them immediately."\nStill, the screenings have outraged among some Republican leaders.\n"This is the most offensive thing I've ever heard. No one should ever question the loyalty or professionalism of the Texas National Guard," Texas Gov. Greg Abbott, a Republican, tweeted on Monday. "I'll never do it again if they are disrespected like this."\nBoth current and former members of the US military were among those arrested over the riot at the US Capitol on January 6, which was provoked by President Donald Trump. Insurrectionists at the Capitol could were seen carrying military flags, as well as markings belonging to far-right extremist groups. The FBI has arrested people associated with armed gangs like the Oath Keepers, a self-styled militia that is largely made up of former military and ex-law enforcement, in connection with the pandemonium.\nSupporters of President Donald Trump wear gas masks and military-style apparel as they walk around inside the Rotunda after breaching the US Capitol in Washington, DC, January 6, 2021. Saul Loeb/Getty Images\nSince the deadly neo-Nazi rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, and long before it, evidence has consistently turned up pointing to ties between the armed forces and right-wing extremist groups. Meanwhile, the Pentagon has a history of downplaying any ties between members of the military and white supremacist or far-right groups.\n"These people are not representative of our country's military," Gen. Mark A. Milley, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, recently told the New York Times. But many congressional lawmakers are evidently not satisfied with how the military has responded.\nAfter the violent insurrection at the Capitol, a group of Democratic senators called on the Pentagon to "investigate and address white supremacy and extremist ideology in the ranks of the military."\n"The issue of white supremacy and extremist ideology within the ranks of our military is not new, but the attack on the Capitol makes clear this alarming trend must be immediately addressed," the group of lawmakers, which included military veterans, wrote in a letter. "We urge you to launch a comprehensive investigation into instances of white supremacist and violent fringe extremist activity within the military."\nThe Pentagon's internal watchdog on Thursday announced a probe into the effectiveness of the Department of Defense's policies and procedures for prohibiting active-duty troops from "active advocacy and active participation" in white supremacist or extremist groups.\nMeanwhile, the Department of Defense has underscored it does not tolerate extremism on any level.\n"We … are doing everything we can to eliminate extremism in the Department of Defense," Gary Reed, the director for defense intelligence and counterintelligence, law enforcement and security, said on Thursday. "Simply put, we will not tolerate extremism of any sort in DOD."\nAfter the riot, which resulted in five deaths, the Joint Chiefs of Staff also issued a remarkable memo reminding US forces of their sworn duty to support and defend the Constitution, while urging troops to reject extremism. One of the people killed during the mayhem was an Air Force veteran.\nThere will be up to 25,000 National Guard troops in Washington, DC, to help provide security on Inauguration Day, roughly five times the number of US troops in Iraq and Afghanistan combined. The massive troop presence is a stark reminder that homegrown extremism is a greater threat to the US than foreign terrorism — and has been for some time.}}
{{By PTI\nCHICAGO: Freshman US Rep Mary Miller of Illinois quoted Adolf Hitler in a speech Wednesday outside the US Capitol, comments that drew swift criticism from fellow Republicans.\nMiller, elected in November to replace Republican John Shimkus, spoke during an event by conservative group "Moms for America," one of several demonstrations by supporters of President Donald Trump.\nMiller, speaking before violent Trump supporters stormed the Capitol, read from prepared remarks, urging the need to appeal to young people in politics.\n"This is the battle," she said according to video posted by WCIA-TV.\n"Hitler was right on one thing. He said, Whoever has the youth has the future."\nThe comment is often attributed to Hitler, who organised youth groups to introduce children to Nazi ideologies.\nALSO READ | US Capitol violence in 10 pictures: When pro-Trump mob stormed the building to overturn election\nIllinois Republicans including US Rep. Adam Kinzinger and state GOP Chairman Tim Schneider condemned the comments.\n"That language is wrong and disgusting. We urge Congresswoman Miller to apologize," Schneider said in a statement.\nIllinois Gov J.B. Pritzker, a Democrat who is Jewish, called the remarks "unfathomable."\n"Let me be clear: Hitler got nothing right," he told reporters Wednesday.\n"This reprehensible rhetoric has no place in our politics."\nMiller, elected to public office for the first time, runs a farm with her husband, Republican state Rep.\nChris Miller. Her congressional district covers a wide swath of southern and eastern Illinois along the border with Indiana.\nMessages left Wednesday for spokeswomen for Miller and "Moms for America" weren't returned.}}
{{As a ghostly brown haze began to clear, the streets of east Beirut emerged in apocalyptic ruin. Even 4km from the centre of the blast each building had lost some, if not all, of its windows. It was just after 6pm. Smoke, dispersed with pockets of pink gas, shrouded some of the carnage. Huge shards of glass covered roads – some jagged pieces had ripped through cars. Trees were shredded, and pools of blood formed puddles in the streets.\nBeirut explosion: dead and wounded among 'hundreds of casualties', says Lebanon Red Cross – live updates Read more\nBlood trails led to the cars and motorbikes that had sped the injured away to clinics or hospitals, which within minutes of the explosion were struggling to cope with the number of dead and injured.\nAmbulances wailed along the city’s boulevards, speeding past intersections gridlocked by the sheer numbers of cars trying to flee and the weight of hazards they had to pass. The mushroom cloud that had billowed over the nearby port was being pushed to the east, but it towered in some form for almost half an hour.\nWalking down through the east Beirut suburb of Ashrafieh to Gemmayze and towards the site of the blast at the port, the devastation was even more comprehensive. Dozens of buildings had clearly sustained structural damage. Shops, and restaurants were almost all severely damaged. A whole nightclub district was virtually wiped out. Weeks of sustained artillery shelling had not caused the same amount of ruin, even during the peak of the civil war.\nFacebook Twitter Pinterest The devastated harbour area in Beirut. Photograph: Wael Hamzeh/EPA\nMen, women and children were walking, bewildered, from somewhere near the blast site. Few were hurrying. Many were abandoning what remained of their homes, heading for nowhere in particular. It was just as difficult to get past the debris on foot as it was by car.\nIt takes a lot to shake Beirut, which has risen and fallen under bombs before. But in a city inured to explosion, this was something new. An economic implosion had left a country on edge. Now a devastating explosion of a dimension that few could comprehend. “We’re cursed,” said one man, in his early 20s, blood streaming down his wrist from a glass cut. “Even if this was an accident, it’s the last thing we could afford.”\nThe last time a blast anywhere near this size had rocked Lebanon was in February 2005, when the former prime minister Rafik Hariri was killed by a car bomb outside a waterfront hotel. More than 15 years later, a result in the trial of his accused killers is due in The Hague on Friday, and there were fears the explosion could be a harbinger of the verdict.\n“Nothing happens without a reason here,” said Sobhi Shattar, as he swept debris from the front of the former Nissan chief Carlos Ghosn’s house in a well-to-do street. “This could be a message for everyone to back off.”\nThe focus quickly became what had blown up and how, with everybody having a theory. The blast wave was felt as far away as south Beirut, and was heard 80km (50 miles) away in northern Lebanon. There were reports that the sound of the explosion was heard 250km (160 miles) to the west in Cyprus.\n“Only huge quantities of high explosives could do that,” said Riyadh Haddad, a local engineer. “Something at the port either blew up by itself, or got targeted.”\nLike his neighbours in the entertainment district of Gemmayze, Haddad had a lot of work to do to make his house habitable. “Look at it,” he said. “How do we recover? There are at least 1m windows missing across the city, and that’s the least of our worries. No money, jobs, power, fuel. And now this. Will it be a wake-up call, or will there be a war?”\nIn the early aftermath, Lebanese officials were blaming the chaos on a storage of fireworks igniting in a catastrophic accident. That version was debunked by the sheer size of the explosion and reach of the blast wave.\nPlay Video 1:08 Beirut explosion: buildings destroyed and cars upturned in aftermath of blast – video\n“Was this a weapons storage centre?” asked one man, frantically trying to phone his friends. “Did the Israelis hit it? There was a small explosion, then a bigger one. What caused the first?”\nRumour and intrigue spread as fast as the shockwave, and by nightfall, Lebanon’s security chief, Gen Abbas Ibrahim, had debunked the fireworks theory and blamed an industrial accident in a warehouse depot, which he said had housed highly combustible chemicals.\nNot everyone was convinced. “In all the history of Lebanon, there has never been anything like this,” said another man, in his 30s, as he swept glass out his front door. “This was almost thermonuclear, and I think it was a lot of military-grade explosives that went up. Will they ever be truthful about it? I doubt it.”\nAs night closed in, Beirut was darker than ever. The waning electricity that recently could barely keep the city going was barely needed, for once. The city was rapidly emptying. The lights were no longer on.}}
{{PHOENIX (AP) - As a pro-Trump mob laid siege to the U.S. Capitol this week, former Rep. Gabby Giffords could only wait nervously for news about her husband, Mark Kelly, who was barely a month into his job as a senator from Arizona.\nA decade earlier it was Kelly enduring the excruciating wait for news about Giffords, who was shot in the head in an attempted assassination that, like Wednesday’s siege, shocked the nation and prompted a reckoning about the state of politics and discourse in the United States.\nFor some who survived the attack 10 years ago Friday, the violence inside the U.S. Capitol this week was a painful reminder of that day, when a gunman with paranoid schizophrenia killed six and injured 12, in addition to Giffords, who was meeting with constituents in a grocery store parking lot in Tucson.\n“It oftentimes gets forgotten because we are in a heightened and really vitriolic place in politics - every single one of those people, whether they were a staffer, security guard, member, is a human being,” said Daniel Hernandez, the Giffords intern who was credited with saving her life when he put pressure on her bleeding head wound while waiting for paramedics.\nThe storming of the Capitol “was a stark reminder that at any moment we could go from having a congressional event that we all think is held to a different standard, and yet in five minutes we had people on the (Senate) floor, people in Nancy Pelosi’s office,” said Hernandez, who is now a Democratic state lawmaker representing part of Tucson in the Arizona Legislature.\nThe county is set to commemorate the 10-year anniversary Friday and dedicate a memorial to those slain and injured.\nThe shooting of Giffords, her staff and the constituents who arrived to speak to their congresswoman rattled the nation in the aftermath of the bitter and contentious 2010 election, which saw the tea party movement sweep Democrats from office around the country. Giffords had barely retained her seat.\nIt prompted an extraordinary show of unity. At President Barack Obama’s state of the union address a little more than two weeks later, Republicans and Democrats sat side by side instead of clustering on opposite sides of the chamber.\nIt was short-lived. The country is more polarized than ever. Congress was threatened.\nKelly was in the Senate chamber on Wednesday when the mob breached the Capitol, and he was escorted to a safe location, his spokesman, Jacob Peters, said.\n“As I sat waiting for information about @SenMarkKelly’s safety today, I couldn’t stop thinking about what you must have gone through 10 years ago this week,” Giffords wrote on Twitter Wednesday after it was clear lawmakers were unharmed. “I’m so glad you and your staff are safe. I love you, sweetie.”\nThe shooting a decade ago left Giffords with limited motion on one side and aphasia, a verbal disability. She can think clearly but struggles to form the words and sentences to express her thoughts. Still, with significant help from her speech therapist, she’s advanced considerably since the early days of her recovery, when she could say just one word: chicken.\nThe nation glimpsed her progress at the Democratic National Convention in August, when she delivered a poignant 90-second speech in support of President-elect Joe Biden, her longest public speech since the shooting. She regularly gave brief remarks to introduce her husband at key moments in his 2020 campaign.\nGiffords left Congress after the shooting to focus on her recovery, cutting short a political career that many in Arizona believe would have included a run for governor or U.S. Senate.\nShe went on to create, along with Kelly, a political group that lobbies for tougher gun laws and works to elect state and federal lawmakers who will support them.\n“She has probably touched many more lives in a positive sense than if she had been able to, say, become senator or governor,” said Pam Simon, a Giffords friend and former staffer who was shot in the chest. “She has touched lives worldwide. She’s inspired survivors all across the country. She’s inspired people with disabilities.”\nThe new memorial in front of a restored downtown courthouse features gardens named for each of the six people killed and tells the stories of the victims and survivors. There are also tributes to first responders and Tucson’s history.\nThe dead included John Roll, Arizona’s chief federal judge, who’d stopped to thank Giffords for her help to address a crush of border-enforcement cases. A new courthouse has since been built in Yuma and named for Roll. Gabe Zimmerman, Giffords‘ community outreach director, was the first congressional staffer killed on the job in the United States.\n“Gabe was actually my closest friend and he was my person that I bounced my ideas off of,” said his father, Ross Zimmerman. “So losing him is a problem on multiple levels for me.”\nDorothy Morris, Dorwin Stoddard and Phyllis Schneck also were killed.\nThe gunman, Jared Loughner, is serving a life sentence at a federal medical center in Rochester, Minnesota, according to federal prison records.\nDays after the shooting, President Barack Obama flew to Tucson to console a grieving city and nation. In his plea for civility, he homed in on Christina Taylor Green, a 9-year-old victim who’d recently been elected to the Student Council and was just beginning to understand the meaning of democracy. She went to see her congresswoman with a child’s optimism and a belief that public service is exciting and hopeful.\nA decade later, in the aftermath of an insurrection at the U.S. Capitol, his words carry new meaning.\n“I want our democracy to be as good as Christina imagined it,” Obama said. “I want America to be as good as she imagined it. All of us – we should do everything we can to make sure this country lives up to our children’s expectations.”\nSign up for Daily Newsletters Manage Newsletters\nCopyright © 2021 The Washington Times, LLC.}}
{{The AP is one of the largest and most trusted sources of independent newsgathering, supplying a steady stream of news to its members, international subscribers and commercial customers. AP is neither privately owned nor government-funded; instead, as a not-for-profit news cooperative owned by its American newspaper and broadcast members, it can maintain its single-minded focus on newsgathering and its commitment to the highest standards of objective, accurate journalism.}}
{{Golden State Warriors star Draymond Green went on a rant Wednesday night when he was asked about the riots at the U.S. Capitol earlier in the day.\nGreen did not mince words when he was describing the violent mob of Trump supporters who attempted to stop the certification of the presidential election results. He also contrasted how police treated those who stormed the building with how Black people are treated by officers.\nCLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM\n"It’s shameful to keep calling them protesters," Green said. "They’re not f—ing protesters. They’re f—ing terrorists."\nHe added: "It’s baffling with the reaction that the law enforcement had and whoever else was involved from a authoritarian standpoint to see the National Guard standing on those same steps when there was a peaceful protest and now to see a terrorist attack and there was no National Guard.\n"It just goes to show you where this country is and where this country has always been and probably where it’s going to stay, to be quite honest. Nothing’s changed. I think through social media and all of these different things we have at our fingertips today, we’re more aware of things. But nothing has changed. This is the same America that it’s been. It’s no different."\nGreen took issue with the "policing system" in the U.S. and said it’s the reason why some people can go to the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and put their feet on her desk without consequences.\nNBPA EXEC MICHELE ROBERTS CITES RACIAL DOUBLE STANDARD IN COMPARING US CAPITOL CHAOS WITH JACOB BLAKE SHOOTING\n"Stop calling those people protesters. They’re terrorists. They’re not protesters. Protesters is what you saw when we saw 500 National Guard members standing on those same steps when there were Black and Brown people saying, 'We want to be treated equally.’ That’s a protest," he said, via USA Today.\n"Storming into a building and busting out windows and carrying podiums and all of this other stuff, that’s not a protest. That’s a terrorist attack. So stop describing those people the same way you describe someone who’s just standing there making a chant and saying, 'We want justice, we want peace.' Stop using the same words. It’s disrespectful. It’s ridiculous."\nGreen stopped short of advocating for force to be used against the mob.\n"I’ve seen a lot of things like, ‘Shoot them the way we would’ve been shot.’ I don’t think that’s the right thing to do. I think, ‘Stop shooting us.’ I think that’s more the battle cry than necessarily shoot them like we would’ve been shot. Just stop shooting us," he said.\nCLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM\nEach of the NBA games on Wednesday’s schedule was played. The Boston Celtics and Miami Heat released a statement on their thoughts about the day’s events while Milwaukee Bucks and Detroit Pistons players both knelt during their game.}}
{{Months of tense, sometimes violent, protests after the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis led voters to take their concerns from the streets to the polls, where they strongly supported nearly two dozen police reform measures across the nation.\nMost of the votes in Tuesday's election established citizen-led panels to review use of force incidents. Others sought more training for police and an end to long-criticized police practices like stop and frisk. Some went as far as taking control of a sheriff’s office.\nFew of the measures were opposed, and those that were still passed by wide margins despite police groups spending far more to defeat them, according to a USA TODAY analysis of campaign finance reports.\nMost of the initiatives came in Democrat-leaning cities.\n“The people are speaking,” Shannon Hardin, president of the Columbus, Ohio city council said Wednesday after voters there backed the creation of a police review panel and created an independent inspector general’s office to investigate police misconduct. “I think elected officials, regardless of where they are around the country, are wise to listen.”\nThe message, Hardin and others say, is that voters want more accountability for police officers and other power players in the justice system. And public officials who voters deemed insensitive to racial injustice paid for it with steep losses in traditionally Republican areas with high-profile deadly incidents.\nThis was also clear in Democratic cities like Philadelphia, where three-quarters of voters approved a constitutional ban of the widely criticized practice of stop and frisk, which has been found to disproportionately impact people of color. Philadelphia Police Department policy already prohibits the practice, but a recent ACLU report showed it was still being used excessively on Black and Hispanic people.\nIn Georgia, voters ousted Brunswick District Attorney Jackie Johnson over her handling of the case of Ahmaud Arbury, a Black man shot and killed while jogging down a neighborhood street. Johnson, a Republican, said she recused herself from the case because one of the suspects is a retired investigator from her office. Voters responded by voting for challenger Keith Higgins, an Independent, by a two-to-one margin.\nIn a suburban Austin, Texas, county, voters soundly rejected Sheriff Robert Chody in the wake of revelations that his deputies Tased to death Javier Ambler II as he screamed, “I can’t breathe!” Chody lost re-election despite spending $1.16 million, compared to his challenger’s $38,000.\nAll but one of the two dozen police reform ballot initiatives USA TODAY tracked passed. Even the measure that failed appeared to be a nod to growing calls to defund police. Voters in Tulelake, Calif. batted down a new tax to bring in more money for that area’s law enforcement agencies.\nThere have been concerns about the panels being toothless, which was one of the reasons King County, Washington voters passed a measure giving its panel subpoena power.\nOther reforms in King County included giving families of those killed by law enforcement an attorney to represent them during an inquest and appointing rather than electing the sheriff. The latter was the most contentious measure and passed 57% to 43%.\nThe reform effort came after the 2017 shooting of Tommy Le, who was in the midst of a mental health crisis. Deputies fired after they said Le advanced toward them with a sharp object. It turned out to be a pen.\nThe Save Our Sheriff Committee spent more than $200,000 on efforts to defeat two of the proposals. Proponents spent about $5,000 campaigning for the passage of all four measures.\n“The police guild here was up on TV with ads opposing them. They put yard signs all over the county saying, ‘Protect your right to vote’ and ‘Don't defund the police,’ and I think that the people of King County just saw through that and are tired of the continual resistance to any sort of meaningful oversight and reform to policing,” said Rod Dembowski, chair of the Charter for Justice Committee and a King County council member.\nProposed reforms also sparked controversy in Los Angeles County in California.\nThere, voters passed a measure requiring at least 10% of the county's general fund to go toward community programs and alternatives to incarceration.\nAn opposition group funded by law enforcement called “No on Measure J” spent more than $3 million to convince voters it was an effort to defund police. The “Yes on J” committee had some big-name contributors, including members of the Disney family and the wife of the CEO of Netflix. But most of its contributions were less than $500, and the committee spent about $1.5 million.\nYes On J Committee Treasurer Tommy Newman and Co-Chair Eunisses Hernandez said the vote came after years of attempts to get the county board of supervisors to prioritize alternatives to incarceration. Recent events nationally and locally made voters hungry for change, they said.\n“This will outlive the political moment we’re in,” Hernandez said.\nNewman said they’re hopeful the rest of the country will follow LA County’s example.\n“Criminal justice system reform is really important, but unless you're pairing it with affirmative investments in low-income and Black and brown communities, it's not enough,” he said.\nIn Columbus, where city leaders introduced the citizen’s review panel ballot issue just hours after George Floyd-related protests ignited in that city, leaders saw no organized opposition. Forward Columbus, the group that pushed the measure, raised more than $300,000 to promote it, according to campaign finance reports.\nNick Bankston, the campaign manager for the initiative, said many business leaders donated to demonstrate their opposition to racial injustice.\n“Contributing to this gave them a tangible way to show their employees that they were committed to what they said and weren’t just talking about it,” Banskton said.\nColumbus saw a surge of protests in 2016 – first after two Columbus plainclothes officers fatally shot 23-year-old Henry Green, then three months later when another officer fatally shot 13-year-old Tyre King. None of the officers faced criminal charges.\nIn 2019, a police reform panel recommended establishing a review panel that would investigate fatal law enforcement encounters.\nFloyd’s death was a catalyst for city leaders to put it on the ballot, said city council President Shannon Hardin.\nHardin and two other council members made headlines themselves this summer, when police officers pepper sprayed them as they marched with protesters.\nDespite that experience, Hardin said most officers cringe at the notion of being labeled brutal or corrupt, and the police review panel will help protect them.\nHardin, a Black man who grew up on the south side of Columbus and was first elected to the city council in 2014, said Tuesday’s vote was just a foundational step in cities across America seeking to change the relationship between police and the public.\n“I think what we’re going through now is a time that is akin to the civil rights movement,” Hardin said. “What we saw is that trust between police and some of our communities has been fleeting, but people are ready to try to rebuild.”}}
{{President-elect Joe Biden savaged President Donald Trump over the riot that broke out Wednesday at the Capitol but stopped short of voicing support for or opposition against invoking the 25th Amendment during his Thursday press conference.\nBiden, who ignored shouted questions from reporters about the 25th Amendment while arriving at The Queen Theater in Wilmington, Delaware, opened by stating he would not “speak on” that subject today. (RELATED: Biden Calls On Rioting MAGA Mob To Leave The Capitol — ‘It’s Not Protest. It’s Insurrection’)\nHe proceeded to call Wednesday’s riot on Capitol Hill “one of the darkest days in the history of our nation” and an “unprecedented assault on our democracy.”\n“All of us here grieve the loss of life, grieve the desecration of the people’s house, but what we witnessed yesterday was not dissent,” Biden continued. “It was not disorder, it was not protest. It was chaos.”\nThe president-elect claimed that Trump “over the past four years has made his contempt for our democracy — our Constitution, the rule of law — clear in everything he has done.”\n“He unleashed an all-out assault on our institutions of democracy,” Biden stated. “Yesterday was what the culmination of that unrelenting attack.”\nWATCH:\nMultiple lawmakers, including Republican Illinois Rep. Adam Kinzinger, incoming Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, have all called for Trump’s removal via the 25th Amendment.}}
{{Britain said on Wednesday that it was too early to speculate on the cause of a massive blast that ripped through Beirut killing at least 100 people.\nPresident Donald Trump on Tuesday cast the explosion as a possible attack, though Lebanese leaders said that it was likely caused by highly explosive material that had been stored at warehouses in the capital for years.\nWhen asked about speculation about the causes of the blast, British junior education minister Nick Gibb said: "The Lebanese authorities are of course investigating the cause of that tragedy and before we have the results of that inquiry it is premature to speculate."\nTrump: explosion in Beirut was likely an 'attack'\nGibb also told Sky that Britain was discussing what technical and financial assistance could be offered to Lebanon.\n"The government is working urgently this morning on what we can do to help the Lebanese government with technical support and of course working with our allies to provide financial assistance," Gibb told BBC radio.\n"There will be further announcements this morning and later today about what support we will be providing to Lebanon," Gibb said.}}
{{Derrick Evans, a West Virginia state lawmaker allegedly among the rioters who stormed the Capitol building, has been charged with one count of knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; and one count of violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol Grounds. A federal magistrate judge in West Virginia released him on his personal recognizance after he appeared in court Friday afternoon, according to court records.\nEvans has denied taking part in the destruction and violence and has since deleted the clip, but not before it was shared on social media and aired by CNN affiliate WCHS. In another video posted to his Facebook page Wednesday morning, he laughs as he predicts a riot.\nThe Republican state lawmaker has said he only filmed the event as an "independent member of the media to film history," though it does not appear he has any experience working as one.}}
{{WASHINGTON (AP) — Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is explicitly pointing his finger at President Donald Trump for helping to spur the attack on the Capitol by the outgoing president’s supporters.\nThe Kentucky Republican said Tuesday on the Senate floor, “The mob was fed lies. They were provoked by the president and other powerful people.”\nMcConnell spoke six days after the Democratic-led House impeached Trump on charges of inciting the Jan. 6 attack. A Senate trial on whether to convict Trump and perhaps bar him from again holding federal office is expected to begin in coming days.\nAfter years of supporting Trump with little criticism of him, McConnell has said he’s not decided whether he would vote to convict him.}}
{{Raimondo is a former venture capitalist who worked at a fund backed by Bain Capital. She also started her own venture firm in Rhode Island, where she worked before being elected general treasurer of Rhode Island in 2011.\nRaimondo was elected governor of Rhode Island in 2014 and served as head of the Democratic Governors Association in 2019. During the presidential primary, she threw her support behind former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, serving as national co-chair for the well funded but ill-fated campaign.\nUntil September, Graves worked for Cleveland-based KeyBank as its head of corporate responsibility and community relations. He previously served in Biden's vice presidential office and in the Treasury Department, and at one point ran Biden'ts Cancer Moonshot initiative.\nGraves is currently leading the Treasury Agency Review Team for the transition.\nGuzman served in the Obama administration’s SBA as deputy chief of staff and senior advisor. More recently she has been director of California’s Office of the Small Business Advocate.\nIf confirmed, Guzman will take the helm of the once low-key agency that has been tasked with doling out massive amounts of aid to struggling employers during the pandemic.\nRaimondo, if approved by the Senate, will preside over a sprawling, diverse department, whose functions include forecasting the weather, managing ocean fisheries, and setting international product standards.\nShe will also be landing in the middle of several international trade disputes that were begun during the tenure of Secretary Wilbur Ross, one of the few cabinet secretaries to survive President Donald Trump’s entire term.\nRoss helped Trump justify tariffs on steel and aluminum imports under a little-used legal provision. Commerce conducted a 270-day investigation, which Ross said showed those imports posed a threat to U.S.’ national security.\nThat paved the way for Trump to impose duties on the two metals, drawing the ire of allies like the European Union and other major trading partners. Ross also conducted an investigation that could have led to national security tariffs on autos from Europe and Japan, but Trump never followed through on that threat.\nRoss was less involved in Trump’s tit-for-tat trade war with China that resulted in duties on more than $350 billion worth of imports. But he did put Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei and other Chinese firms on a trade blacklist due to national security grounds.\nAs a member of the Cabinet, Raimondo could play a key role in helping Biden decide whether or when to roll back any of those actions. Trade relations with China are expected to remain fraught, even if Biden does mend fences with countries in the EU and other nations after four years of Trump’s disruptive actions.}}
{{MORNING BRIEFING\nWhat you need to know straight to your inbox,\n7am every weekday morning.}}
{{Transcript for President-elect Joe Biden to send immigration reform bill on day 1 in office\nOkay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.\nThis transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.}}
{{SEE NEW POSTS\nCapitol rioter who put feet on Pelosi's desk got PPP loan Richard Barnett sits in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office Wednesday. Sau Loeb / AFP - Getty Images Richard Barnett, the Capitol rioter photographed with his feet on a desk in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office, received a $9,300 forgivable loan under the Paycheck Protection Program last April, records show. An independent glass and glazing contractor in Gravette, Arkansas, Barnett was an early participant in the federal program that aimed to help small businesses survive COVID-related shutdowns and continue paying their employees. In his PPP application, Barnett, 60, said the loan would preserve one job, presumably his own, and was based on total payroll costs of $44,640 at his enterprise. Barnett did not mention receiving government assistance when he bragged to The New York Times about breaking into Pelosi's office and leaving her a nasty note. Efforts to reach Barnett were unsuccessful. Share this -\nDeputy national security adviser Pottinger resigns Deputy national security adviser Matthew Pottinger has resigned, his boss said Thursday. "Asking Matt Pottinger to serve as my deputy was my first act as NSA and it turned out to be one of my best decisions. As he heads West to rejoin his family in beautiful Utah, Matt does so with my appreciation for a job well done and with my enduring friendship," O'Brien wrote in a pair of tweets. O'Brien added that Pottinger's work led "to a great awakening in our country and around the world to the danger posed by the Chinese Communist Party." O'Brien didn't offer an explanation on the timing of the resignation, which came after Trump-supporting rioters stormed the Capitol building on Wednesday. Numerous other officials, including former acting chief of staff Mick Mulvaney, have resigned from the administration in the wake of Wednesday's violence, and Mulvaney told CNBC he expected there would be others following suit. Share this -\nD.C. mayor says Trump 'must be held accountable' for Capitol riot, demands control of Nat'l Guard Mayor Muriel Bowser of Washington, D.C., said Thursday that President Donald Trump instigated the storming of the U.S. Capitol and “must be held accountable for this unprecedented attack on our Democracy.” “What happened yesterday, he wanted to happen,” Bowser said at a new conference. “What happened yesterday is textbook terrorism.” Bowser said that Wednesday’s assault by a mob of Trump supporters was enabled by “catastrophic security failures” and called on Congress to “immediately transfer command” of the District of Columbia National Guard from Trump to her office to prevent a repeat of the violence that shocked the country and resulted in the deaths of four people. “We will be looking very closely at what we learned,” Bowser said, when asked how the district is preparing for the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden in less that two weeks. Among other things, the 7-foot “nonscalable fencing will be in place around the Capitol until after the inauguration” and there will be a much bigger security contingent on hand, the mayor said. Bowser noted that the federal police response to the George Floyd demonstrations over the summer was much swifter. “I’m upset by what this president has done to this city and our democracy,” she said. “I’m upset that my police officers were put in harm’s way, when they were just doing their jobs.” Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who also spoke to reporters, said when asked why no troops were deployed to the Capitol ahead of Tuesday’s electoral vote counting that “no request of the D.C. National Guard was made to come onto the grounds.” Share this -\nD.C. police release photos of people from Capitol riot they want to identify The Metropolitan Police Department released photos Thursday of rioters at the Capitol that they want to identify. Among the photos is one of a notorious QAnon supporter, who goes by Q Shaman, whose attire had people on Twitter likening him to Chewbacca. A protester screams "Freedom" inside the Senate chamber after the Capitol was breached by a mob during a joint session of Congress on Jan. 06, 2021. Win McNamee / Getty Images An unidentified rioter was fired from his job due to "demonstrating dangerous conduct that endangers the health and safety of others," Navistar Direct Marketing said in a tweeted statement. The Maryland company did not name the employee. Here are the rest of the photos the department released. Police are offering a $1,000 reward to anyone who provides information that leads to arrests and indictments of one or more of the rioters. Share this -\nOcasio-Cortez calls on Cruz and Hawley to resign Sen. Cruz, you must accept responsibility for how your craven, self-serving actions contributed to the deaths of four people yesterday. And how you fundraised off this riot.\nBoth you and Senator Hawley must resign. If you do not, the Senate should move for your expulsion. https://t.co/O2m6T59LYP — Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (@AOC) January 7, 2021 Share this -\nCapitol police were hit in the head with lead pipes, congressman says Rep. Tim Ryan — who chairs a key subcommittee with jurisdiction over the Capitol — just told reporters that as many as 60 Capitol Police officers were injured yesterday, including 15 hospitalized and one in critical condition. Many were hit in the head with lead pipes, the Ohio Democrat said. Ryan said he is "livid" over the "strategic blunder" that left the Capitol police without a solid plan and adequate reinforcements. He said he does not understand, and plans to investigate, why the mob was allowed to get so close to the Capitol when he was assured by police officials that could not happen, adding that there was an “intelligence failure,” to anticipate the scope of the threat. While praising the heroics of most rank and file Capitol Police, he said he was concerned about videos showing police officers appearing to act with passivity, and in one case posing for a selfie with a rioter. Share this -\nHoyer says rioters stole a tribute to late Rep. John Lewis House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md., said Thursday that rioters that stormed the Capitol stole a poster that was a tribute to the late civil rights icon, Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., who died last year. While rioters shamefully destroyed this tribute to my brother John Lewis yesterday, let his words continue to echo in the halls of Congress and in our hearts. Let us always stand up, speak up, and speak out against injustice and for our democracy. pic.twitter.com/IwLfLQc6f0 — Steny (Wear a Mask) Hoyer (@LeaderHoyer) January 7, 2021 Before the violence began Thursday, many Democrats were alluding to Lewis and his civil rights efforts after the victories of Democrats Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock in their Georgia Senate runoff elections. Share this -\nTrump yanks Chad Wolf's Homeland Security nomination The White House announced it was withdrawing acting Homeland Security chief's Chad Wolf's nomination to the permanent post on Thursday, shortly after he issued a statement critical of the of the president. The White House did not say why it was withdrawing Wolf's nomination, but the announcement, came about one hour after Wolfissued a statement that said, "Any appearance of inciting violence by an elected official goes against who we are as Americans." White House spokesman Judd Deere said the timing was coincidental. “The withdrawal occurred yesterday and was not related at all to Wednesday’s events or the Acting Secretary’s comments this morning. Acting Secretary Wolf remains the acting secretary and continues to perform the duties of his office,” Deere said in a statement. Wolf's statement called Wednesday's riot "unacceptable. These violent actions are unconscionable, and I implore the president and all elected officials to strongly condemn the violence that took place yesterday." Trump's withdrawal of the nomination has little real impact. Wolf would not have been confirmed before the start of the Biden administration, and Biden would have no intention of keeping him on the job. In his statement, Wolf said, "I will remain in my position until the end of the administration to ensure the department’s focus remains on the serious threats facing our country and an orderly transition to President-elect Biden’s DHS team." Share this -\nActing AG Rosen: Capitol rioters will 'face the full consequences of their actions' Reacting to the violence that gripped the Capitol on Wednesday, acting Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen said Thursday that the Department of Justice "is committed to ensuring that those responsible for this attack on our government and the rule of law face the full consequences of their actions under the law." "Our criminal prosecutors have been working throughout the evening with special agents and investigators from the U.S. Capitol Police, FBI, ATF, Metropolitan Police Department and the public to gather the evidence, identify perpetrators, and charge federal crimes where warranted," he said in a statement. "Some participants in yesterday’s violence will be charged today, and we will continue to methodically assess evidence, charge crimes and make arrests in the coming days and weeks to ensure that those responsible are held accountable under the law," added Rosen, who succeeded Bill Barr as head of the Justice Department after his resignation last month. FBI Director Christopher Wray also said in a statement, "Let me assure the American people the FBI has deployed our full investigative resources and is working closely with our federal, state, and local partners to aggressively pursue those involved in criminal activity during the events of January 6." "Our agents and analysts have been hard at work through the night gathering evidence, sharing intelligence, and working with federal prosecutors to bring charges," he continued. The public can help by providing tips, information, and videos of illegal activity, he said, adding, "We are determined to find those responsible and ensure justice is served." Share this -}}
{{In a dark moment, Biden will aim to deliver a speech that reaches out to all Americans while trying to turn the corner.\nWASHINGTON — President-elect Joe Biden will take the stage for his inaugural address at perhaps the most difficult starting point for a president since Franklin Roosevelt began his first term by assuring a nation scarred by the Great Depression that “we have nothing to fear but fear itself.”\nBut memorable turns of phrase like Roosevelt’s are more the exception than the rule when it comes to inaugural addresses.\nFormer President Barack Obama in his memoir noted that singer Aretha Franklin’s showy hat and a glitch in Chief Justice John Roberts' administration of the oath of office got more attention than his speech in the days following the first Black president’s address, delivered as the nation was mired in recession and a growing malaise over two intractable wars.\nNow, with the coronavirus raging, unemployment claims soaring and partisan divisions sharpening, Biden faces a fraught moment as he prepares to deliver a speech that aides say he wants to use to “call Americans to unity.”\n“The situation he faces is absolutely brutal,” said Cody Keenan, who served as a chief speechwriter for Obama and assisted with his two inaugural addresses. He added that Biden in many ways is ”the perfect president for the moment, because he is not hyperbolic, he’s not a bomb thrower, he’s surrounded himself with policy wonks who already have all these plans. I think what we are going to hear him talk about is ‘Here’s where we are, here’s what we have to get done.' I think that’s going to go a long way just to making people feel better."\nWith the current mood of the country, Biden’s consistent focus on restoring “the soul of America” may be of greater value to the nation than any soaring oratory, in the view of some Democratic allies of the incoming president.\n“It is entirely possible that this inaugural is one we remember for generations to come, because of the gravity of this moment” said David Litt, who served as an Obama speechwriter and wrote the comedic memoir, “Thanks, Obama: My Hopey Changey White House Years.” “But I also think it’s possible that the signature speeches of the Biden administration come at less expected moments and that would be par for the course.”\nThe inaugural address is as much a celebration of the peaceful handover of power as it is a set piece for a new or reelected president to lay out a vision for the nation. In recent memory, inaugural addresses have followed a predictable structure: The nation has challenges but there is hope to solve the problems if the president’s agenda is embraced.\nOne tradition dating back at least to Jimmy Carter’s 1977 inaugural is for the incoming president to offer the nation’s gratitude to the outgoing president — a moment of graciousness intended to put aside the strife of the political campaign and signal to Americans that it’s time to come together as a nation.\nPresident Donald Trump won’t be there to hear it. He’s already said he won’t attend the inauguration — the first outgoing president to skip his successor's swearing-in since Andrew Johnson did not attend Ulysses S. Grant’s inauguration in 1869.\nAri Fleischer, who served as press secretary for President George W. Bush, said there are still ways that Biden’s speechwriting team can continue the tradition of honoring the peaceful transition of power by simply giving a nod to the past presidents and Vice President Mike Pence, who are expected to be at the Capitol for the address.\nBiden chief of staff Ron Klain said during a recent event hosted by The Washington Post that the president-elect has been chipping away on the address through the entire transition — taking time every few days to write and rewrite his thoughts. His speechwriting team is led by longtime Biden collaborator Vinay Reddy.\nMore important than flowery oratory is substantively demonstrating how Biden will take steps to begin unifying a country that remains emotionally raw because of the pandemic and a divisive election cycle that culminated with the violent insurrection at the Capitol, Fleischer said.\n“Don’t dwell on today’s difficulties. Focus on tomorrow’s answers,” Fleischer advised. “Soaring oratory is just not Joe Biden. The effectiveness of his speech is going to be much more about what he says than how he says it.”\nEdward Frantz, a presidential historian at the University of Indianapolis, said Biden’s daunting moment has parallels to what Roosevelt faced in 1933 as he sought to rally support for his agenda, as well as to Rutherford B. Hayes, who delivered his inaugural address in 1877 after winning by a single Electoral College vote in an election in which he and his allies alleged fraud in several states.\nIn addition to pushing a message of unity for Americans, Biden should signal to the world that the United States will recalibrate after four years of Trump, Frantz said. That may be easier said than done, though.\n“How do you talk about returning to new normal while also not seeming arrogant about the United States’ position in the world — especially after what’s transpired over the last four years of the Trump administration and also with what foreign observers watched in horror as the riots transpired,” Frantz said. “There really is no parallel to what Biden faces.”\n___}}
{{Kellie Chauvin, the wife of former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin, announced Friday she is filing for divorce.\nThrough her attorney, Kellie Chauvin said she is devastated by the death of George Floyd and expressed her sympathy to “his family, with his loved ones and with everyone who is grieving.”\nThe couple were married for a decade.\nFloyd died Monday after he was pinned to the ground by officers, including Chauvin who constricted his breathing by putting his knee on his neck. In video captured by witnesses, Floyd is heard pleading that he was struggling to breath and in severe pain as Chauvin remained with his knee on his neck for more than eight minutes.\nFloyd was declared dead a short time later at a Minneapolis hospital.\nChauvin and three other officers involved in his death were fired Tuesday as community activists called for their arrests. Chauvin was charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter on Friday.\nThrough her attorney, Kellie Chauvin said she has no children from her current marriage and asked that her children from a previous relationship, parents and extended family “be given safety and privacy during this difficult time.”\nBorn in Laos in 1974, her family fled their homeland and lived in a refugee camp in Thailand before immigrating to America.\nShe was married through an arranged marriage before she was 18 years old and had two children with her first husband. Describing him as abusive in an interview with the Pioneer Press, she divorced him and moved out of state to Minnesota.\nShe went back to school following her divorce, earning an associate’s degree in radiology and worked in the emergency room of Hennepin County Medical Center in Minneapolis, where she met her future husband, Derek Chauvin.\nIn the 2018 interview with the Pioneer Press, she described him as “just a softie” under his uniform. “He’s such a gentleman. He still opens the door for me, still puts my coat on for me. After my divorce, I had a list of must-haves if I were ever to be in a relationship, and he fit all of them.”\nThrough her attorney, Kellie Chauvin said she decided to file for divorce following his actions this week.}}
{{WASHINGTON, D.C. (KXAN) — On Saturday, President-elect Joe Biden called out Congress and Pres. Trump as deadlines for millions of Americans facing financial hardships loom.\nBiden took to Twitter to urge Washington lawmakers to pass some sort of relief package, saying: “If Congress and President Trump fail to act by the end of December: 12 million Americans will lose unemployment benefits. Emergency paid leave will end. The moratorium on evictions will expire. The situation is urgent. Americans need help and they need it now.”\nIf Congress and President Trump fail to act by the end of December:\n– 12 million Americans will lose unemployment benefits\n– Emergency paid leave will end\n– The moratorium on evictions will expire\nThe situation is urgent. Americans need help and they need it now. — Joe Biden (@JoeBiden) December 5, 2020\nBiden’s words come as Democrats and Republicans sit at a stalemate over coronavirus relief. Currently, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Sen. Minority Leader Chuck Schumer are backing a $908 billion bipartisan plan to approach Sen. Maj. Leader Mitch McConnell with.\nThat plan includes funding for more Paycheck Protection Program loans for small businesses, expanded free COVID-19 testing, and money for schools.\nBiden has repeatedly said that getting help to Americans will be a “day one” priority for his administration once he takes the oath of office on January 20.\nTrump has mostly remained quiet on the subject, as he has continued his effort to prevent states certifying election results and/or overturn them based on still unproven claims of voter fraud.\nEarlier on Saturday, President-elect Biden also urged Americans to continue wearing masks, keep social distancing, and limiting group sizes.\n“It’s our patriotic duty as Americans,” Biden tweeted.}}
{{Meghan McCain wants President Donald Trump out of office. During Thursday's episode of The View, an impassioned McCain called for the 25th Amendment to be invoked following Wednesday's violent riots at the Capitol by Trump supporters.\nThe 25th Amendment allows the vice president, with the support of the majority of the president's cabinet, to declare the president unfit for office, a move that could lead to the president's early removal. In that case, the vice president would become the acting president.\nMany Democrats, including Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, as well as Republican Congressman Adam Kinzinger, have called for the amendment to be invoked as well.\n"This is one of the great national tragedies of my lifetime. This is one of America's darkest days. I have been absolutely despondent watching this," McCain began. "... I think that this is a good time to take a very hard look at where we are as a country, and take a very hard look at where we are with President Trump."\n"The bedrock of our democracy, and the bedrock of who we are as Americans, is the peaceful transition of power. He is clearly a president who has turned into a mad king," she continued. "And, at this point, I'm calling on all Republicans and conservatives who still have clout, we have to invoke the 25th Amendment. We cannot withstand this. Our country cannot go on like this. And we cannot possibly risk the idea that we could have more violence between now and President Biden getting inaugurated."\nMcCain went on to call the rioters "bastards," and slammed them for "using the American flag as symbols as they are attacking our own republic."\n"You are not patriots. You do not represent America," she said. "You are scum of the Earth, who are using and abusing and bastardizing all that I love and have grown up with for your own sick agenda."\nMcCain turned her focus to Trump and his allies next, stating that the rioters' agenda has been "directly -- directly! -- set by President Trump."\n"He didn't disavow it. He didn't send in the National Guard. And then he called them 'special' and said we 'love' them," she said. "Ivanka Trump called these people 'patriots.' I am a patriot. I come from a patriotic family. I come from a family of service, as does everyone on this show."\n"You are hurting our country. You are becoming a national embarrassment," she continued of Trump. "And we have to get him out immediately because this cannot stand. The final words I want to say on this show this morning, in the words of Oliver Cromwell, 'In the name of God, go!' Go! We cannot take this anymore."\n.@MeghanMcCain: “[Trump] is clearly a president who has turned into a mad king, and at this point, I’m calling on all Republicans and conservatives who still have clout—we have to invoke the 25th Amendment. We cannot withstand this. Our country cannot go on like this.” pic.twitter.com/2LxaUnS11l — The View (@TheView) January 7, 2021\nWhoopi Goldberg referred to the rioters as "domestic terrorists... who had the audacity to call themselves patriots," before, like McCain, slamming the president and his allies.\n"The FBI is asking for help identifying those responsible, so let's start with you-know-who, 'cause this all stems from his fingers," she said, referring to the president. "You-know-who, his son [Donald Trump Jr.], his faux-lawyer Rudy Giuliani, and everybody else who was onstage at yesterday's rally."\n"They sent all those people to the Capitol building, where they knew there were not enough officers there to protect anybody that was in there, including the Vice President of the United States [Mike Pence], the newly-elected Vice President of the United States [Kamala Harris], and all the other folks that were sitting in there," she continued. "If you want to look for somebody, there are three people right there whose fingers are the dirtiest, because they knew what they were doing and they did it anyway."\n.@WhoopiGoldberg opening today’s @TheView: “Just 24 hours ago, the hottest topics were Warnock and Ossoff... but right after yesterday’s show, our nation’s Capitol fell under siege by domestic terrorists.”\n“Take a good look at what they did and don’t ever forget it.” pic.twitter.com/CDMhYrMLV0 — The View (@TheView) January 7, 2021\nJoy Behar likened Wednesday's events to "a pimple popping" that allowed "a lot of people to see the reality of the situation that I've been b**ching about for four years."\n"I remember with Watergate, it took the Republicans five minutes to get rid of Nixon," she said, referring to the 1972 scandal that led to President Richard Nixon's resignation. "This has taken the Republican Party four years and a violent outbreak to come to their senses."\nBehar went on to celebrate that Democrats will soon have control over the White House, Congress and Senate, before turning her attention to the riots themselves, and how the police response to them was widely different than the police response to Black Lives Matter protests last year.\n"The whole ugly demonstration showed you that the police are capable of restraining themselves. They know how to do it. You saw it!" she said. "Not only that, many of them enabled these insurrectionists to go into the Capitol and endanger the lives of people... I mean, it's outrageous."\nBehar also noted that she does not forgive Sen. Lindsay Graham, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Sen. Josh Hawley, Sen. Ted Cruz or Rudy Giuliani, all of whom peddled lies that the presidential election was rigged and fraudulent, despite having no evidence to back up their claims.\n"I don't forgive Lindsay Graham. He can go on the floor of the Capitol and cry his eyes out. He is part and parcel of this problem and so is Mitch McConnell and this idiot Josh Hawley," Behar said. "He needs to be stripped of all committee things he's been doing. Ted Cruz, Rudy Giuliani, go back to the landscaping business. You're done."\n.@JoyVBehar: “The whole ugly demonstration showed you that the police are capable of restraining themselves. They know how to do it. You saw it. Not only that, many of them enabled these insurrectionists to go into the Capitol and endanger the life of people.” pic.twitter.com/8gkLQut3r2 — The View (@TheView) January 7, 2021\nLike Behar, Sunny Hostin largely spoke about the differences in the police response to yesterday's riots and past Black Lives Matter protests.\n"I was thinking, 'Where's the National Guard? Where are the rubber bullets? Where is the tear gas? Where is the show of force protecting federal property?'" Hostin said. "I was thinking about Christopher David. Remember that Navy veteran that was beaten by the federal police during the Black Lives Matter protest, who was standing in unity with his Black brothers and sisters, valiantly, I believe, protesting police brutality."\n"Meghan was talking about the fact that she was struck by the American flag being waved by the rioters and the seditionists in our Capitol. I was struck by the Confederate flag being waved in our nation's Capitol," she added, before once again turning her attention to the police response.\n"I thought the type of police restraint that we saw, is the type of police restraint that I wish had been shown during the Black Lives Matter protests and the protests against police brutality, the protests against the murder of George Floyd, the protests against the [shooting] of Jacob Blake, the protests against the murder of Breonna Taylor. Where was that police restraint? It was nowhere," she said. "And I also thought, 'Where are the arrests?' We had at least 438 arrests when there were Black Lives Matter rallies and protests. There were about 50 arrests yesterday."\nHostin called the riots "jarring" and went on to criticize Republicans who are only now speaking out.\n"When you do see some Republicans standing up and saying 'enough is enough,' some of our senators and some of our congressmen, I don't think that, at this point, they get credit," she said. "Because they have poured gasoline on this flame for four years! The chickens have come home to roost for them! They do not get credit now!"\n“The type of police restraint that we saw is the type of police restraint that I wish had been shown during the Black Lives Matter protests and the protests against police brutality,” @Sunny says.\n“It was so jarring to me that this is the state of our democracy.” pic.twitter.com/Pl2TzZ8fpj — The View (@TheView) January 7, 2021\nSara Haines said she was "still probably shaken" from the riots, which left her with a feeling similar to one she felt on 9/11.\n"It honestly reminded me for the first time of 9/11, when we were watching the TVs and the towers. Because I remember standing, I was a page at NBC, and looking around and waiting for an adult to come in the room and tell me everything would be OK," she recalled. "And I sat here yesterday watching this, feeling the same way. I was waiting for someone to say this was all going to be fine."\nWhile Haines noted that she believes "the vast majority of Trump voters "would not approve" of the riots by "domestic terrorists," she called out GOP leaders for their inaction to speak up prior to Wednesday's events.\n"Along the way, so many people, a lot of the GOP leaders, turned their cheek in the name of the platform. You know, there were a lot of people that were trying to hold onto the old conservative ideals and kept giving [Trump] a pass. And that's what emboldened this," she said. "... We saw this coming."\n"So finally last night, Sen. Graham, Mitch McConnell, said enough is enough. It's too late," she continued. "I'm glad they did it... and I understand there are platform and party interests and things that still remain true in this country, but when your man becomes the outside guy that comes in to shake everything up, you have to ask yourself, 'How shaken are we OK with? When is enough, enough?' And that's what we saw yesterday."\n“These were extremists. These were domestic terrorists,” @sarahaines says in reaction to Wednesday’s violence on Capitol Hill.\n“There were a lot of people that were trying to hold onto the old conservative ideals and kept giving [Trump] a pass, and that’s what emboldened this.” pic.twitter.com/SCGEzI2Q3U — The View (@TheView) January 7, 2021\nWatch the video below to see how other celebrities responded to the riots.\nGET THE ET NEWSLETTER Email By signing up, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy\nRELATED CONTENT:\nChris Evans, Cardi B and More React to Trump Mob's Chaos at U.S. Capitol This video is unavailable because we were unable to load a message from our sponsors.\nIf you are using ad-blocking software, please disable it and reload the page. Embed Code Restart\nMark Zuckerberg Blocks Donald Trump's Facebook and Instagram Accounts\nKarlie Kloss Says She's Tried to Talk to Ivanka Trump & Jared Kushner\nDemi Lovato Plans to Release New Music in Response to Capitol Riots\nRelated Gallery}}
{{Eminem fans compare 'We Made You' video to Capitol riots\nEminem fans compare his 'We Made You' video to Capitol riots. Picture: Getty/Twitter\nFans are convinced the Detroit rap legend predicted the Capital riots in 2009, from his music video visuals.\nEminem's fans have collectively come up with a theory that the Detroit rapper predicted the riots at the Capitol Hill in the US.\nWhile there has been many important, necessary conversations about police brutality and racial bias, others have speculated on how this major historical event came about.\nUS President-elect Joe Biden described the violence at the Capitol as "one of the darkest days in the history of our nation". Biden also pointed towards Donald Trump being one of instrumental figures in stroking the violence.\nHe added it was "totally unacceptable" that police had shown more leniency than the Black Lives Matter protests last year.\nAside from the crucial conversations going on following the event, Ems fans built up a theory of their own about how the "Darkness" rapper predicted the riots in his 2009 "We Made You" music video.\nA tweet is circulating of a screenshot from the "We Made You" video, one that looks similar to one from the riot.\nSome of the participants in the riot wore animal pelts, just like in the Eminem video. The 48-year-old rappers "We Made You" music video featured a very similar aesthetic, where a fur-clad actor stood in a Capitol-esque building.\nAlthough it is extremely unlikely to have any links, the coincidence of it all has sparked rumours that Em may have "predicted" the riots.\nSee Eminem's fans tweets below.\nOkay, I know the situation with the Capitol is very serious, but-\nHow tf did Eminem predict this asshole? pic.twitter.com/hsMQMZjgYK — Lover Boy (@MichaelCantDra1) January 7, 2021\nEminem predicted Capitol Hill siege 11 years ago lmao pic.twitter.com/MjBBwMMqJL — EMINƎM HUB (@Shadyinfo) January 7, 2021\nSo did the simpsons pic.twitter.com/yad08u2MVb — Bryson (@Papa_Ewok) January 7, 2021\nWhat do you think? Let us know @CapitalXTRA}}
{{DES MOINES, Iowa (KCAU) — Authorities have arrested a man from Des Moines on charges related to the riot that took place at the U.S. Capitol building.\nOfficials with the FBI Omaha Field Office said Saturday that officers arrested Doug Jensen, of Des Moines, and he is being held at the Polk County Jail.\nAccording to officials, Jensen is being charged with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority, disrupting the orderly conduct of government business, violent entry and disorderly conduct in a Capitol building, parading, demonstrating, or picketing in a Capitol building, and obstructing a law enforcement officer during a civil disorder.\nThese charges stem from the Capitol builing protest on January 6.}}
{{POPE Francis has said he was astonished by the mob attack at the US Capitol due to the democratic traditions of the United States.\nThe pope said in an interview with Mediaset that the broadcaster is set to air on Sunday that even "in the most mature reality, there is always something that doesn't work, people who take a path against the community, against democracy and against the common good.\n3 Pope Francis said he was astonished by the violent disturbances at the Capitol building last Wednesday Credit: AFP or licensors\n3 Hundreds of Trump supporters stormed the Capitol building and took over Credit: Metropolitan Police\n3 Tear gas is released into a crowd of protesters during clashes with Capitol police Credit: Reuters\nIn a brief excerpt posted on Mediasets website on Saturday, Francis said: "Thank God this exploded into the open so it can be seen, so it can be remedied.\n"This must be condemned, this movement, regardless of the people involved," he said of the rioting and violence on Capitol Hill on Wednesday.\nSupporters seething over President Donald Trump's election defeat stormed the Capitol as Congress was finalizing President-elect Joe Biden's victory, believing Trump's false claims of a rigged election.\nA total of five people died, including a police officer.\n"Violence is always like this, isn't it?" the pontiff said. No population can boast of not having one day a case of violence.\n"It happens in history. But we must understand well, so as not to repeat it, learn from history, learn that groups... that are not well integrated into society, sooner or later will have these eruptions of violence."\nTrump is facing an unprecedented second impeachment as Democrats officially push forward to charge him with "inciting insurrection" in the wake of the deadly Capitol siege.\nDemocrats have already drafted the single article for Trump's impeachment that will be formally introduced on Monday, according to reports.\nThe impeachment articles will reportedly be formally introduced on Monday by House Democrats as House Speaker Nancy Pelosi "pushes for removal" after the Capitol Hill riots.\nMost read in News NANCY TARGETED Rioter arrested for swiping Pelosi’s lectern & another 'vowed to shoot her' Latest NUT NABBED Horned QAnon shaman charged after storming Capitol in riot carnage ‘ASSAULT ON HUMAN LIFE’ Melania has ‘blood on her hands’ over Capitol riot, ex-BFF rants MOM SHAMED Teen blasts mom for ‘fighting riot cop’ after telling her not to go to BLM rally ONLINE WAR Parler 'free speech' app suspended by Google over 'inauguration violence posts' DON’S TICKING OFF Hillary Clinton gloats as Trump’s Twitter account is permanently DELETED\nMore to follow...\nFor the latest news on this story keep checking back at Sun Online.\nThe Sun is your go to destination for the best celebrity news, football news, real-life stories, jaw-dropping pictures and must-see video.\nDownload our fantastic, new and improved free App for the best ever Sun Online experience. For iPhone click here, for Android click here.\nLike us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/TheSunUS and follow us from our main Twitter account at @TheSunUS.}}
{{Fox News:\nJohn Sullivan has previously called for ‘revolution’ and to ‘rip Trump’ out of his office\nAn anti-Trump activist who once said he wanted to “rip” the president out of office entered the Capitol Building Wednesday alongside a mob of pro-Trump protesters, but he said he was just there to “document” it.\n“There’s this narrative going around right now that Antifa was the people there causing the riots, causing the tension, they were the only people breaking into the Capitol, and I wanted to be able to tell a part of history and show that that was anything but the case,” John Sullivan, the founder of Utah-based Insurgence USA, told Fox News Thursday.\nInsurgence USA describes itself as “the revolution.” It began protesting racial injustice in policing last year following the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis police custody.\nIn August 2020 remarks to a small crowd at a Washington, D.C., intersection, Sullivan pointed to the nearby White House and unleashed a torrent of violent rhetoric. “We … about to burn this s— down,” he said. “We gotta … rip Trump right out of that office right there,” he continued, adding, “We ain’t about … waiting until the next election.” He then led the crowd in a chant of, “It’s time for revolution.”\nVideo of his remarks, which include graphic language, can be found here.\nSullivan told Fox News he didn’t notice other left-wing activists inside the building. But he added that he couldn’t know for sure without speaking to everyone individually.\nAs far as being able to understand who is in the crowd, based on being around protests a lot … I didn’t see any people who were originally at BLM protests,” he said.\nSullivan says he was standing near Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt when she was shot and killed in the Capitol, and video appears to show him on the scene.\nRead more at Fox News}}
{{The goal of 'compassionate release' for incarcerated criminals may be to reduce their risk of contracting COVID. But the unintended consequence has been new risks for survivors of sexual and domestic abuse as their convicted abusers are returned to the community.}}
{{Aftermath Of The Massive Explosion In Beirut, Lebanon The detonation of more than 2,000 tons of explosive material at the Beirut port has damaged as much as half of Lebanon's capital. At least 130 people have been confirmed dead, and 4,000 injured.}}
{{Fast News\nThe health minister says more than 50 people have been killed and over 2,700 injured in the explosion that the interior minister says took place in a depot storing confiscated ammonium nitrate.\nA massive explosion has rocked Beirut, flattening much of the port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky.\nThe health minister said more than 50 people were killed and over 2,700 injured in Tuesday's blast.\nA civil defence official on the scene of the blast said his men had evacuated dozens to hospitals and that there were still bodies inside the port, many of them under debris.\nLebanon's Prime Minister Hassan Diab said that those responsible for an explosion at a "dangerous" warehouse in Beirut port area that rocked the capital would pay the price.\nInterior Minister Mohammed Fahmi speaking to local media said the explosion took place in a depot storing confiscated ammonium nitrate.\nGeneral Security chief Abbas Ibrahim said the explosion may have been caused by explosive materials confiscated years ago and stored at the city's port.\n"It appears that there is a warehouse containing material that was confiscated years ago, and it appears that it was highly explosive material," the senior security official said, adding that an investigation would be launched into the explosions.\nCloser look at the Beirut Explosion. pic.twitter.com/hiNkSWQ3nU — Kyle Kashuv (@KyleKashuv) August 4, 2020\nA people shook\nDiab declared a national day of mourning on Wednesday.\n"I promise you that this catastrophe will not pass without accountability. ... Those responsible will pay the price," Diab said in a televised speech. "Facts about this dangerous warehouse that has been there since 2014 will be announced and I will not preempt the investigations".\nDozens of ambulances ferried the injured from the port area, where the wounded lay on the ground, Associated Press staff at the scene said. Hospitals called for blood donations.\nThe head of the Lebanese Red Cross told local TV there were hundreds of casualties although many were superficial wounds from broken glass.\nLebanon's powerful Hezbollah movement said all of the country's political powers must to overcome the "painful catastrophe" unite after the explosion.\nVideo taken by residents showed a fire raging at the port, sending up a giant column of smoke, illuminated by flashes of what appear to be fireworks.\nThe fire then appeared to catch at a nearby building, triggering a more massive explosion, sending up a mushroom cloud and a shock wave over the city.\n“It was like a nuclear explosion,” said Walid Abdo, a 43-year-old school teacher in the neighbourhood of Gemayzeh near Beirut.\nCharbel Haj, who works at the port, said it started as small explosions like firecrackers, then the huge blast erupted and he was thrown off his feet. His clothes were torn.\nMiles from the port, balconies were knocked down, windows shattered, streets were covered with glass and bricks and lined with wrecked cars.\nMotorcyclists picked their way through traffic, carrying the injured.\nOne woman covered in blood from the waist up walked down a trashed street while talking furiously on her phone.\nOn another street, a woman with a bloodied face looked distraught, staggering through traffic with two friends at her side.\n“This country is cursed,” a young man passing by muttered.\nBeirut's governor: "I have never in my life seen a disaster this big. This a national catastrophe. I don't know how we will recover from this," he says before breaking down in tears. Officials will have a lot to answer for if turns out combustible material kept in civilian area https://t.co/1qyEuQFSBK — Josie Ensor (@Josiensor) August 4, 2020\nIsrael says 'nothing to do' with blast\nAn Israeli government official said Israel "had nothing to do" with the blast.\nIsrael and Lebanon's Hezbollah militant group are bitter enemies, and tensions have been high following a series of recent clashes.\nEarlier Tuesday, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned Hezbollah Israel would not hesitate to strike again if it felt it was necessary.\nBut late Tuesday, the Israeli official said Israel was not involved in the Beirut explosion. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter with the media.\nHospitals overwhelmed after Beirut explosion. In Geitawi, medical staff treating patients in a parking lot. pic.twitter.com/xwC3eBn49r — Abby Sewell (@sewella) August 4, 2020\nDevasted amid financial and Covid-19 crisis\nThe blast came at a time when Lebanon’s economy is facing collapse, hit both by a financial crisis and coronavirus restrictions.\nMany have lost jobs, while the worth of their savings has evaporated as the currency has plunged in value against the dollar. The result has thrown many into poverty.\nThe explosion was reminiscent of massive blasts during Lebanon’s civil war and took place only three days before a UN-backed tribunal was set to give its verdict in the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in a truck bombing more than 15 years ago. That explosion, with a ton of explosives, was felt miles away, just like Tuesday’s explosion.\nIt was the latest chapter for a country that has suffered a 15-year civil war, repeated conflict with Israel, political assassinations and various other crises including the current unprecedented financial and economic crisis.\nThis is a developing story and will be updated accordingly\nSource: TRTWorld and agencies}}
{{President-elect Joe Biden and his wife, Dr. Jill Biden spent Martin Luther King Jr. Day volunteering as the Presidential Inauguration Committee partnered with local, state and national organizations virtually for a National Day of Service. The Bidens filled food boxes at Philabundance, a hunger relief organization in Philadelphia. Vice President-elect Kamala Harris and husband Doug Emhoff volunteered at Martha’s Table in Washington, D.C. A statement by the inauguration committee said, “The National Day of Service is an opportunity for all Americans to unite and serve at a time when the global pandemic calls on all of us to work together and support our communities.”\nThe White House designated Monday as a working day for President Donald Trump. A daily schedule released by the White House to reporters said, “President Trump will work from early in the morning until late in the evening. He will make many calls and have many meetings.”\nThe inaugural committee sponsored a “United We Serve” virtual celebration with participants including the surviving children of King — the Rev. Dr.Bernice King and Martin Luther King III. The Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial in Washington, D.C. was closed to the public through Thursday for security reasons connected with Wednesday’s inauguration.\nEditorial credit: Perfect 5hot / Shutterstock.com}}
{{Derrick Evans, a newly elected lawmaker in the West Virginia House of Delegates, says he won't resign after he filmed himself and others storming the US Capitol building on Wednesday.\nThe Justice Department announced on Friday that Evans had been charged with entering a restricted area of the US Capitol during the riot.\nEvans' lawyer told CBS affiliate WVNS-TV his client "committed no criminal act" as he stormed the Capitol building.\nVisit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.\nA newly elected lawmaker in West Virginia who was criminally charged after filming himself and supporters of President Donald Trump taking part in the riot at the US Capitol on Wednesday says he won't resign after his colleagues called for him to step down.\nAn attorney for Derrick Evans, a Republican lawmaker in West Virginia's House of Delegates, told CBS affiliate WVNS-TV that his client "committed no criminal act" as he stormed the Capitol building.\n"From Mr. Evans point of view in the crowd, it appeared that the crowd was being allowed by law enforcement into the Capitol. He was not at the front of the group. Given the sheer size of the group walking in, Evans had no choice but to enter," the attorney, John H. Bryan, said. "Evans continued to film once inside. His footage showed that members of the public were already inside the Capitol by the time he entered. Evans' footage shows no riotous behavior taking place at that time. Protesters can be seen calmly walking around."\nThe Justice Department announced on Friday Evans had been charged with entering a restricted area of the US Capitol in connection the riot, in which supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the Capitol building as lawmakers debated the Electoral College vote count.\nFive people, including a US Capitol Police officer, died in the riot.\nWhen contacted by Insider, Bryan said that he had not yet read the criminal complaint against Evans. It's unclear if Evans is in custody.\nVideo Evans posted, which has been deleted from his Facebook but can still be found on Reddit, shows people funneling through the doors of the US Capitol building.\nIn the video, Evans can be heard saying "Keep it moving baby" to the people in front of him, complaining about being hit with pepper spray, and, upon stepping through the doors of the Capitol and pushing passed the police, cheering: "We're in! We're in! Derrick Evans is in the Capitol!"\nIt later shows Evans walking around the building shouting "Freedom!" and warning people not to destroy property.\nHours after the riot, Evans said in a separate video that he went to the Capitol as an "independent member of the media to film history," and said he "did not have any negative interactions with law enforcement."\nEvans' colleagues in the West Virginia House of Delegates have criticized his participation in the riot, with the House Speaker, Roger Hanshaw, telling WV Metro News that "participating in a violent intentional disruption of one of our nation's most fundamental political institutions is a crime that should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law."\nA public petition calling for Evan's removal has more than 50,000 signatures.}}
{{Regina King can’t help but notice the stark contrast between the Capitol Hill riot on Wednesday and Black Lives Matter protests that took place in 2020.\nThe Academy Award-winning actress addressed Wednesday’s riots on that evening’s episode of “Jimmy Kimmel Live!”. On Wednesday, pro-Trump protesters overran Capitol Hill on the day that U.S. Congress certified Joe Biden’s U.S. presidential victory.\nRELATED: Late-Night Hosts React With Shock And Anger To Capitol Riots\nKing juxtaposed the police response to Wednesday’s riots at Capitol Hill to how law enforcement handled Black Lives Matter protests.\n“I tuned in to people with pitchforks being escorted down the steps, after protesting, very calmly by police officers, after they had broken windows. The Divided States of America,” King expressed. “No tear gas, it was, wow, quite the vision.”\nRELATED: Don Cheadle Slams U.S. Capitol Riots: ‘Let’s Be Real, This Is America’\nIn an effort to clear her mind, King disconnected her DirectTV a while back and picked up gardening. King revealed it was “Black-ish” star Anthony Anderson who got her into gardening. She said Anderson had “quite the green thumb.”\n“I started gardening during the quarantine,” she shared. “I’ve grown kale, tomatoes, different varieties of peppers. I’ve grown some onions from cuttings. I’ve had three yieldings of kale in my garden since I’ve started. It’s been quite rewarding.”}}
{{To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video\nJenna Bush Hager was nearly in tears as she shared her horror over the Capitol riots which took place on Wednesday.\nThe Today co-host was overcome with emotion as she spoke to her fellow anchor Hoda Kotb about how the unfathomable scenes were ‘not the America we know’.\nThe 39-year-old daughter of former President George W. Bush and granddaughter of the late President George H.W. Bush stated: ‘This is not the America that you know. This is not the America I know. It’s not the America that we want our kids to know.\n‘And I have had the privilege of standing on those steps, and several inaugurations, not just for family members, but for the first Black President of the United States of America when I was a teacher in inner-city D.C., and that meant so much to so many.’\nAdvertisement\nAdvertisement\nThe mother-of-two continued: ‘I kissed my grandfather goodbye in that rotunda. I have felt the majesty of our country in those walls. And nobody can take that from any of us.’\nAs she reflected on the pain caused by the Trump-supporting rioters storming Capitol Hill, Jenna stated: ‘What hurts is that we feel like we’re helpless maybe in this moment – but we’re not.\nThe 39-year-old granddaughter of the late President George H.W. Bush couldn’t hide her dismay (Picture: NBC)\nJenna is the daughter of former President George W. Bush (Picture: Steve Liss/The LIFE Images Collection via Getty Images)\n‘Because the casual cruelty that we find in the internet, and the words of leaders that do not reflect our country, we can stop that. We can share kindness and smiles and love, and we can take back what is our country that we all love so very, very much.’\nShe added: ‘And I just have optimism… But seeing people that represent the good, spotlighting them, we have an opportunity, and I think I have faith that our country will be better.’\nWednesday saw Trump-supporting rioters storm the Capitol building in an attempt to stop the certification of Joe Biden as the next President of the United States.\nFour people died at the riots, including one woman who was shot dead, and there have been calls for Trump to be impeached following the chaos.\nGot A Showbiz Story?\nIf you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.\nMORE : Jamiroquai star Jay Kay says he ‘wasn’t with all those freaks’ as MAGA comparison trends on Twitter after Capitol riots\nMORE : Seth Meyers calls for President Donald Trump to be removed from office and prosecuted after Capitol riots}}
{{(BREITBART) Rap megastar Lil Wayne urged people not to jump to conclusions regarding the police involved death of George Floyd. The Grammy-winner condemned those smearing every police officer and called out those making Floyd’s death about race.\n“I think when we see these situations, I think we also have to understand that we have to get very specific,” Lil Wayne said in an Instagram Live conversation with rapper Fat Joe. “We have to get so specific and what I mean by that, we have to stop viewing it from such a broad view, meaning we have to stop placing the blame on the whole force and the whole everybody of a certain race or everybody with a badge.”\nRead the full story ›}}
{{Calls for 25th Amendment to be invoked to remove President Trump from office continue to mount. Latest updates here.}}
{{WASHINGTON — Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell opened the Senate on Tuesday saying the pro-Trump mob that stormed the Capitol was “fed lies” by the president and others in the deadly riot to overturn Democrat Joe Biden’s election.\nMcConnell’s remarks are his most severe and public rebuke of outgoing President Trump. The Republican leader vowed a “safe and successful” inauguration of Biden on Wednesday at the Capitol, which is under extremely tight security.\n“The mob was fed lies,” McConnell said. “They were provoked by the president and other powerful people, and they tried to use fear and violence to stop a specific proceeding of the first branch of the federal government which they did not like.”\n.@senatemajldr on the U.S. Capitol Attack: “The mob was fed lies. They were provoked by the president and other powerful people.” pic.twitter.com/QIeviyHkl3 — CSPAN (@cspan) January 19, 2021\nMcConnell said after Biden’s inauguration on the Capitol’s West Front – what he noted former President George H.W. Bush has called “democracy’s front porch” – “We’ll move forward.”\nTrump’s last full day in office Tuesday is also senators’ first day back since the deadly Capitol siege, an unparalleled time of transition as the Senate presses ahead to his impeachment trial and starts confirmation hearings on President-elect Joe Biden’s Cabinet.\nThree new Democratic senators-elect are set to be sworn into office Wednesday shortly after Biden’s inauguration at the Capitol, which is under extreme security since the bloody pro-Trump riot. The new senators’ arrival will give the Democrats the most slim majority, a 50-50 divided Senate chamber, with the new vice president, Kamala Harris, swearing them in and serving as an eventual tie-breaking vote.\nSenate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer are set to confer Tuesday about the arrangements ahead, according to a person familiar with the planning and granted anonymity to discuss it.\nThe start of the new session of Congress will force senators to come to terms with the post-Trump era, a transfer of power like almost none other in the nation’s history. Senators are returning to a Capitol shattered from the riot, but also a Senate ground to a halt by the lawmakers’ own extreme partisanship.\nRepublican senators, in particular, face a daunting choice of whether to convict Trump of inciting the insurrection, the first impeachment trial of a president no longer in office, in a break with the defeated president who continues to hold great sway over the party but whose future is uncertain. Senators are also being asked to start confirming Biden’s Cabinet nominees and consider passage of a sweeping new $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief bill.\nIn opening remarks at his confirmation hearing, Biden’s nominee for secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Alejandro Mayorkas, vowed to get to the bottom of the “horrifying” attack on the Capitol.\nMayorkas told the Senate Homeland Security Committee that if confirmed he would do everything possible to ensure “the desecration of the building that stands as one of the three pillars of our democracy, and the terror felt by you, your colleagues, staff, and everyone present, will not happen again.”\nFive of Biden’s nominees are set for hearings Tuesday as the Senate prepares for swift confirmation of some as soon as the president-elect takes office, as is often done on Inauguration Day, particularly for the White House’s national security team.\nBiden wants the Senate to toggle between confirming his nominees, considering COVID relief and holding Trump accountable with the impeachment trial, a tall order for an institution that typically runs more slowly and with bitter confrontations.\nTrump’s impeachment is forcing Republican senators to re-evaluate their relationship with the outgoing president who is charged with inciting a mob of supporters to storm the Capitol as Congress was counting the Electoral College votes to confirm Biden’s election. A protester died during the riot and a police officer died later of injuries; three other people involved died of medical emergencies.\nThe House impeached Trump last week on a sole charge, incitement of insurrection, making him the only president to be twice impeached. He had been impeached in 2019 over relations with Ukraine and was acquitted in 2020 by the Senate.\nSchumer, who is poised to become the majority leader, and McConnell are set to meet Tuesday to discuss the power-sharing agreement and schedule ahead — for Trump’s trial, confirming Biden’s nominees and consideration of the incoming president’s $1.9 trillion COVID relief package.\nThree Democratic senators, Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff of Georgia, and Alex Padilla of California, are to be sworn into office Wednesday, according to the person granted anonymity to discuss planning.\nWarnock and Ossoff defeated Republican incumbents in this month’s runoff elections. Georgia’s secretary of state is expected to certify the election results Tuesday. Padilla was tapped by California’s governor to fill the remainder of Harris’ Senate term.\nThe Senate leaders also must negotiate a power-sharing agreement for the Senate that was last split so narrowly nearly 20 years ago, as they divvy up committee assignments and other resources.\nSend questions/comments to the editors.\n« Previous\nNext »\nfiled under:}}
{{A laptop was stolen from the office of U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi during the storming of the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, one of her aides said on Friday. Drew Hammill, an aide to Democrat Pelosi, said on Twitter that the laptop belonged to a conference room and was used for presentations. He declined to offer further details.\nThe theft of electronic devices from congressional offices has been a persistent worry following the invasion by pro-Trump followers. They were encouraged by Republican President Donald Trump at a rally beforehand to march to the Capitol while Congress was certifying Democrat Joe Biden's Nov. 3 election win. Senator Jeff Merkley, a Democrat, said on Twitter that a laptop was taken from his office. On Thursday, Acting U.S. Attorney Michael Sherwin said that some of the thefts might have potentially jeopardized what he described as "national security equities."\n"We just don't know the extent of that damage at this point," he said. The demonstrators who broke into the Capitol posted several photographs of themselves using congressional phones and various other devices. One reporter with the right-wing outlet Blaze posted a photograph of what purported to be a computer from Pelosi's office with emails "still on the screen."\nWhat else might have been taken during the chaos is not yet known. Some information technology experts worry that intruders may have planted malicious software on computers, although it's not clear that devices were the focus of any particular attention.\n(This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)}}
{{This post was originally published on this site\nNegotiators for the city of Minneapolis agreed with the state Friday to ban the use of chokeholds by police and to require officers to report and intervene anytime they see an unauthorized use of force by another officer.}}
{{Boris Johnson says UK is ready to provide Beirut with support Credit: Reuters/EPA/Getty\nBoris Johnson has pledged to provide support to Beirut ‘in any way we can’ following a huge explosion which has left at least 25 people dead and 2,500 injured.\nThe gigantic blast went off in the city’s port this evening, where explosives were reportedly being stored in warehouses. Shocking footage from the Lebanese capital showed people soaked in blood, buildings left in ruins and debris scattered across roads.\nIt is not yet known what caused the explosion. Sources says overwhelmed hospitals are having to treat the wounded in car parks and are calling out for blood donations for victims.\nTaking to Twitter this evening, Johnson described the destruction left in Beirut as ‘shocking’. He went on: ‘All of my thoughts and prayers are with those caught up in this terrible incident. The UK is ready to provide support in any way we can, including to those British nationals affected.’\nAdvertisement\nThe pictures and videos from Beirut tonight are shocking. All of my thoughts and prayers are with those caught up in this terrible incident. The UK is ready to provide support in any way we can, including to those British nationals affected. — Boris Johnson (@BorisJohnson) August 4, 2020\nTo view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video\nThe UK has pledged to support Beirut (Picture: Getty Images)\nIt is not yet known what caused the explosion (Picture: EPA)\nTo view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video\nHis words were echoed by Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, who also tweeted that the UK ‘stands in solidarity with the people of Lebanon’. He stated that his thoughts and prayers were with everyone affected by the blast.\nAdvertisement\nAdvertisement\nFrench President Emmanuel Macron also wrote on social media that aid and resources are already being delivered to Beirut from France, while Canadian PM Justin Trudeau said he also stood ‘ready to assist’ where possible.\nIsrael also offered humanitarian assistance, with Defence Minister Benny Gantz stating that the nation had approached the Lebanese government through ‘international security and diplomatic channels’.\nEarlier this evening Israeli officials denied involvement in the explosion amid ongoing tensions caused by a cross-border confrontation between the country and Lebanese militant group Hezbollah.\nTo view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video\nMore than 2,500 people are believed to be injured (Picture: Rex)\nThe death toll is expected to rise over the course of the evening (Picture: AP)\nThe death toll from the explosion is expected to rise this evening, with Lebanese Red Cross official Georges Kettaneh stating that there were ‘hundreds of casualties’ in the city.\nArriving in the area this evening, Beirut’s governor Marwan Abboud broke down in tears as he talked about helping to search for fire fighters who had ‘vanished’ while putting out the blaze. A team are searching through the rubble for those missing.\nHe continued: ‘This reminds me of what happened in Japan, to Hiroshima and Nagasaki. I’ve never seen damage of this size and width, and so catastrophic. This is a national catastrophe. This is a problem for Lebanon, and we don’t know how we’re going to get out of it. This is a lot. It’s a lot all at once for people.’\nOne witness told Reuters: ‘I saw a fireball and smoke billowing over Beirut. People were screaming and running, bleeding. Balconies were blown off buildings. Glass in high-rise buildings shattered and fell to the street.’\nMedics are having to treat people in car parks (Picture: Getty Images)\nHospitals are struggling to manage with the number of injured people (Picture: Getty Images)\nSome firefighters are still missing (Picture: Getty Images)\nAnother person described seeing heavy grey smoke near the port area, before hearing the explosion and seeing flames of fire and black smoke. They went on: ‘All the downtown area windows are smashed and there are wounded people walking around. It is total chaos.’\nThe explosion was also felt by residents in Cyprus, more than 145 miles away from Beirut, with witnesses feeling their windows rattle and describing it as similar to thunder.\nGet in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.\nFor more stories like this, check our news page.}}
{{Jenna Ryan in an interview with a CBS affiliate where she defended her actions at the Capitol. CBS 11\nPayPal has banned Texas realtor Jenna Ryan from its platform.\nRyan had become famous after taking a private plane to DC, where she was charged with participating in the Capitol riot.\nShe said on Twitter that she raised $1,000 for her legal defense before the ban.\nVisit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.\nPayPal has banned an account belonging to Jenna Ryan, a participant in the Capitol building riot, after she used it to raise money for her legal defense.\n"PayPal has a policy to allow fundraising for legal defense purposes," a PayPal spokesperson told CBS News. "PayPal thoroughly reviews accounts, and if we learn that funds are used for anything other than legal defense, the account will be subject to immediate closure. We can confirm that the account in question has been closed."\nRyan drew widespread attention during the January 6 insurrection after posting photos and videos on Facebook of herself taking a private jet to Washington, DC, and advertising her skills as a realtor in Texas while going through the grounds of the Capitol.\n"Y'all know who to hire for your realtor. Jenna Ryan for your realtor," she said just before going into the Capitol building, according to an FBI affidavit.\nThe affidavit also included a photo of her posing next to a broken window at the building and threatening to "go after" news organizations.\nRyan was charged on January 15. In an interview with a CBS affiliate after her arrest, she said she didn't partake in any violence and asked for a pardon from President Donald Trump. Trump didn't pardon her before leaving office on January 20.\nShe also said she was simply following Trump's instructions when she stormed the Capitol building.\n"I don't feel a sense of shame or guilty from my heart," Ryan told the CBS affiliate. "I feel like I was basically following my president. I was following what we were called to do. He asked us to fly there. He asked us to be there. So I was doing what he asked us to do."\nStory continues\nShe has yet to enter a plea in her case.\nTo raise money for her legal defense, Ryan posted to Twitter Thursday that she was raising money on PayPal after a different fundraising platform, Fundly, had already banned her. She said Fundly had called her "racist."\n"I am accepting donations to pay legal fees and losses due to my arrest and charges by the FBI for protesting at the US Capitol. Thank you for your support. Any amount helps," Ryan posted to Twitter. "All my computers were confiscated as well as my phone and my Maga hat."\nRyan said she had raised $1,000 before PayPal banned her account.\nOn Thursday, Ryan posted that she was a believer of the QAnon conspiracy theory, which falsely holds that Trump is fighting against a "deep state" of satanic pedophiles.\n"The truth of the matter is that Q was correct. Evil people will have their day. God's timing is perfect," she wrote on Twitter.\nAn attorney representing Ryan didn't immediately respond to Insider's request for comment.\nExpanded Coverage Module: capitol-siege-module\nRead the original article on Business Insider}}
{{At least four Seattle police officers are under investigation for attending the Jan. 6 rally that led to an attack on the U.S. Capitol.\nTwo days after the deadly attack, Seattle Police Chief Adrian Diaz said two officers posted pictures of themselves at the Capitol on social media. Those two officers were placed on administrative leave pending an independent investigation.\nThe Office of Police Accountability, the independent agency tasked with investigating officer misconduct for the Seattle Police Department, said two more Seattle PD officers have since self-reported being at the Capitol.\nAndrew Myerberg, the OPA director, said there may be more.\nRELATED: US Capitol siege a more sinister attack than first appeared as videos emerge\nIt's unknown whether any of the Seattle police officers in attendance entered the Capitol. Chief Diaz said the first two officers placed on leave were off-duty and out-of-uniform.\nAdvertisement\nDiaz said officers are free to participate in "lawful" activities allowed by the First Amendment. If any of the officers are found to have entered the Capitol, they'll be fired immediately, Diaz said.\nThe investigations will take 30 days, according to OPA.}}
{{CLOSE Gov. Andrew Cuomo on May 30, 2020, called for racial justice in the face of the police brutality death of George Floyd, but also urged for peaceful protests in New York and the nation. New York State Team\nStory Highlights Gov. Andrew Cuomo addressed the George Floyd protests in New York and across the U.S. Saturday, saying "violence is not the answer."\nHe added that the protests gained momentum on the back of years of incidents involving black men and police, and that the criminal justice system is home to "abhorrent" injustice.\nHe directed Attorney General Letitia James to conduct a review of the actions taken during the Brooklyn protests Friday.\nNew York Attorney General Letitia James will conduct a review of actions that took place during Friday night’s protests in Brooklyn at the direction of Gov. Andrew Cuomo.\nProtests boiled across the nation this week in response to the death of George Floyd, a black man who died in Minneapolis after a police officer detained him and knelt on his neck. The police officer, Derek Chauvin, lost his job following the incident and was charged with murder Friday.\nA large crowd gathered at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn on Friday night, and in the ensuing protest, bottles and debris were thrown at police and several police vehicles were vandalized, according to the New York Times. Police used pepper spray and made about 200 arrests.\nPolice officers block off DeKalb Avenue in the Brooklyn borough of New York as a police vehicle burns after protesters gathered at Barclays Center to protest the death of George Floyd, a black man who died Memorial Day in Minneapolis police custody, Friday, May 29, 2020. (AP Photo/Frank Franklin II) (Photo: Frank Franklin II, AP)\nCuomo called the situation “disturbing” in his briefing Saturday on the coronavirus pandemic.\n“I’m asking Attorney General James to review the actions from last night,” he said, adding that New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio also asked for an independent report on the situation. “There’s a significant amount of concern about what actions were taken.”\nHe did not specify whether the “actions” he referenced were on the part of the police, the protesters, or both.\nState Sen. Zellnor Myrie and Assemblywoman Diana Richardson, both of whom are black and represent parts of Brooklyn, were pepper sprayed and handcuffed during the protests, according to a release from the New York Working Families party Saturday.\nA police officer walks past a burning police vehicle on DeKalb Avenue in the Brooklyn borough of New York, Friday, May 29, 2020, after protesters gathered at Barclays Center to express anger over the death of George Floyd, a black man who died Memorial Day while in police custody in Minneapolis. (AP Photo/Frank Franklin II) (Photo: Frank Franklin II, AP)\nMinneapolis has erupted in protests for four nights running, People in the crowd setting fire to buildings, furniture and other items.\nMinneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey pleaded for people to "do right by our city" and help restore peace.\nMinnesota Gov. Tim Walz said Saturday that people from outside the Minneapolis community were mounting an “attack” on civil society in the midst of the Floyd protests, and that he was "fully mobilizing" the National Guard in response.\nCuomo urged those involved in the protests across the U.S. to peacefully pursue justice, and refrain from violence.\n“Violence is not the answer,” he said. “It is counterproductive, because the violence then obscures the righteousness of the message and the mission.”\nMore: NYC protest: Hundreds descend on Foley Square over George Floyd's death in Minneapolis\nMore: Opinion: George Floyd's death shows 'someday' has not come for black America\nPeople protest in front of the Minneapolis Police Department's Third Precinct headquarters Wednesday, May 27, 2020, in Minneapolis, Minn. (Photo: Dave Schwarz, dschwarz@stcloudtimes.com)\nTensions are running high because Floyd's death was not an isolated incident, Cuomo continued; many other black men, some in New York, have died under similar circumstances.\n“We have an injustice in the criminal justice system that is abhorrent,” he said.\n“How many times have we seen the same situation? The names change, but the color doesn’t. It’s this nation’s history, dating back hundreds of years. That is the honest truth, and that’s what’s behind this anger and frustration.”\nAdd in fear and tension around the coronavirus pandemic and healthcare disparities across racial and socioeconomic lines, and it’s a recipe for pent-up distress, he said.\nNow is the time for governments at all levels to help unite their citizens, the New York State Bar Association said Saturday.\n"Understandably, outraged citizens are exercising the right to protest and express their anger and grief in the public square," its statement read. "In a nation governed by laws, however, no one has the right to loot and engage in acts of violence to persons and property."\nViolence detracts from an honest reckoning with the underlying issues, as Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. so often taught, Cuomo said.\n“He knew better than anyone who is speaking to us today on this issue,” said Cuomo, reciting one of King’s most famous quotes; “Hate cannot drive out hate. Only love can do that.”\nMore: Coronavirus in NY: COVID-19 race, ethnicity data show black, Hispanic population at higher risk\nMore: New York had its lowest daily death toll from coronavirus in more than two months\nMore: Andrew Cuomo: 'I stand with the protesters' over George Floyd's death\nSarah Taddeo is the consumer watchdog reporter for USA Today Network's New York State Team. She investigates stories about your consumer rights, including scams, negligent landlords, safety issues and wayward businesses.\nGot a story tip or comment? Contact Sarah at STADDEO@Gannett.com or (585) 258-2774. Follow her on Twitter @Sjtaddeo. This coverage is only possible with support from our readers. Sign up today for a digital subscription.\nRead or Share this story: https://www.democratandchronicle.com/story/news/2020/05/30/george-floyd-protests-brooklyn-cuomo-orders-review-actions-during/5291495002/}}
{{(Reuters) -President-elect Joe Biden will nominate federal appeals judge Merrick Garland to be the next U.S. attorney general, a Biden transition official said on Wednesday, a choice most Americans know as the Supreme Court nominee of President Barack Obama memorably blocked by Republicans.\nFILE PHOTO: Appeals Court Judge Merrick Garland speaks in the Rose Garden of the White House after being nominated by President Barack Obama (not pictured) to the U.S. Supreme Court in Washington, U.S., March 16, 2016. REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque/File Photo\nGarland, 68, serves as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, one of 13 federal appeals courts. Obama, a Democrat, nominated him to the Supreme Court in 2016 while Biden was vice president, but the Republican-controlled U.S. Senate refused to hold hearings on the nomination.\nBiden, who takes office in two weeks, also intends to nominate Justice Department veterans Lisa Monaco as deputy attorney general and Kristen Clarke as the assistant attorney general to the Civil Rights Division, the official said.\nVanita Gupta, the head of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, will be nominated by Biden as the Associate Attorney General, the No. 3 person in the department, a second source familiar with the matter said.\nThe news broke as Democrats looked set to win two U.S. Senate seats in Georgia runoff elections held on Tuesday. That would give the party control of both houses of Congress, give Biden more leeway to enact his agenda and all but assure Garland’s appointment, which requires Senate approval.\nDuring his election campaign, Biden pledged to take steps to end racial disparities in sentencing by eliminating mandatory minimum sentences, ending the use of the federal death penalty and restoring the Justice Department’s role of investigating and holding police departments accountable for “systemic misconduct.”\nWhile many of these initiatives would require approval from Congress, Garland as attorney general would have significant power to address these topics through policy changes, including instructing prosecutors not to seek the death penalty and making charging decisions that do not trigger mandatory minimums.\nRepublican Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, the current chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said on Twitter that Garland “would be a sound choice” for attorney general.\n“He is a man of great character, integrity, and tremendous competency in the law,” wrote Graham, who would lose his chairmanship if Democrats prevail in Georgia.\nPOLITICALLY SENSITIVE INVESTIGATIONS\nIf confirmed, Garland will face several politically sensitive investigations from the start.\nDelaware’s top federal prosecutor is investigating Joe Biden’s son Hunter over tax issues and federal prosecutors in Manhattan are probing outgoing President Donald Trump’s personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani’s business dealings in Ukraine.\nGarland will also need to contend with an ongoing investigation by Special Counsel John Durham, a Trump-appointed federal prosecutor in Connecticut, who is probing law enforcement and intelligence officials over their investigation of Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign.\nWilliam Barr, who appointed Durham before ending his term as attorney general last month, faced criticism for his willingness to intervene in criminal cases in ways that benefited Trump’s political allies, such as Michael Flynn and Roger Stone.\nBarr also came under criticism from human rights groups and others for his decision to carry out the federal death penalty after a 17-year hiatus and his willingness to use federal agents to quell violence during protests over racial injustice in policing.\nGarland, who has served on the federal appeals bench since 1997, is no stranger to the Justice Department.\nBefore becoming a judge, he worked as a federal prosecutor and helped secure a conviction against Timothy McVeigh for the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing that killed 168 people. He was also on the team that secured a conviction of former District of Columbia Mayor Marion Barry for cocaine possession.\nGarland held other key posts at the Justice Department, including serving as principal deputy associate attorney general to Deputy Attorney General Jamie Gorelick starting in 1994.\nObama nominated Garland in March 2016 to replace long-serving conservative justice Antonin Scalia, who died on Feb. 13, 2016. But then-Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Republican, refused to consider the nomination on the grounds it should not occur in a presidential election year.\nThat stance, assailed by Democrats at the time, came under further criticism two months before the 2020 presidential election when McConnell rushed to confirm Trump’s nominee Amy Coney Barrett to fill the vacancy of the late liberal Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.\nKristen Clarke serves as the president and executive director of the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law. She previously served as a federal prosecutor in the department’s Civil Rights Division and also worked for the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund Inc where she focused on voting rights cases.\nLisa Monaco previously served as assistant attorney general to the Justice Department’s National Security Division, as well as principal deputy assistant attorney general. Her name had been floated for weeks as a candidate for a high-profile job in the Biden administration.}}
{{WASHINGTON, DC – JANUARY 06: Protesters interact with Capitol Police inside the U.S. Capitol Building on January 06, 2021 in Washington, DC. Congress held a joint session to ratify President-elect Joe Biden’s 306-232 Electoral College win over President Donald Trump. A group of Republican senators said they would reject the Electoral College votes of several states unless Congress appointed a commission to audit the election results. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)\nDES MOINES, Iowa. (AP) — A Des Moines man was jailed early Saturday on charges accusing him of taking part in the riot at the U.S. Capitol building by supporters of President Donald Trump.\nPolice Sgt. Paul Parizek said officers assisted the FBI in arresting 41-year-old Doug Jensen on Friday night at his home in the city’s south side.\nJensen was booked into the Polk County Jail early Saturday on five federal charges, including trespassing and disorderly conduct counts, according to a news releases from the FBI’s field office in Omaha, Nebraska and the county sheriff’s office. Sgt. Ryan Evans of the county sheriff’s office said Jensen was being held without bond and that he didn’t know if he had an attorney.\nThis photo provided by Polk County (Iowa) Jail shows Douglas Jensen. Authorities have arrested Jensen from Des Moines, Iowa, who allegedly took part in the riot at the U.S. Capitol building by supporters of President Donald Trump. Police Sgt. Paul Parizek said Saturday, Jan. 9, 2021, that officers assisted the FBI in arresting Jensen on Friday night at his home. (Polk County (Iowa) Jail via AP)\nThe FBI and sheriff’s office referred further inquiries about the case to the U.S. attorney’s office in Washington.\nVideo posted online during the storming of the Capitol on Wednesday showed a man who appears to be Jensen, who is white, pursuing a Black officer up an interior flight of stairs as a mob of people trails several steps behind. At several points, the officer says “get back,” to no avail. The rioting has raised serious questions over security at the Capitol and the treatment of the mainly white mob compared to the often aggressive tactics used last year at protests over the killings or shootings of Black people by police.\nThe mob ransacked the building, forcing lawmakers who were voting to affirm President-elect Joe Biden’s victory into hiding for hours.\nHere’s the scary moment when protesters initially got into the building from the first floor and made their way outside Senate chamber. pic.twitter.com/CfVIBsgywK — Igor Bobic (@igorbobic) January 6, 2021\nPhotos taken by The Associated Press also showed the man who appears to be Jensen wearing a stocking cap and a QAnon T-shirt over a hooded sweatshirt. QAnon promotes the conspiracy theory that Trump is leading a secret campaign against “deep state” enemies and pedophiles.\nEvans, of the sheriff’s office, said Jensen had a past charge for operating a vehicle while impaired.\nThe U.S. Marshalls Service didn’t immediately respond to AP phone messages Saturday seeking comment.\nJensen’s employer, Forrest & Associate Masonry in Des Moines, confirmed to WHO 13 News Friday that he had been fired.}}
{{The U.S. Capitol Police officer who died from injuries sustained in the riot on Wednesday wanted to be a police officer his entire life, his family said.\nBrian Sicknick, who joined the Capitol Police in 2008, was injured "while physically engaging with protesters" Wednesday and returned to his division office, where he collapsed, Capitol Police said in a statement. He was taken to a hospital, where he died about 9:30 p.m. Thursday. He was 42.\nHe is the fifth person to die in the violent protests.\nCapitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick. Courtesy Sicknick family\nThe New York Times and The Associated Press, citing two law enforcement officials, reported that Sicknick was hit in the head with a fire extinguisher during the melee at the Capitol.\nHis death will be investigated by Capitol Police, the Metropolitan Police Department in Washington and federal agencies, the Capitol Police statement said.\nSicknick was born in South River, New Jersey, and was the youngest of four boys, his family said in a statement Friday.\nHis family said he always wanted to be a police officer and "joined the New Jersey Air National Guard as a means to that end."\nThe N.J. National Guard said Sicknick enlisted in 1997.\n"In doing so, he served his country honorably in both Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Desert Shield," his family said.\nThe family declined a request for an interview Friday and referred NBC News to their statement.\n"Many details regarding Wednesday's events and the direct causes of Brian's injuries remain unknown, and our family asks the public and the press to respect our wishes in not making Brian's passing a political issue," the family said. "Brian is a hero and that is what we would like people to remember."\nPresident Donald Trump urged protesters at a rally near the White House on Wednesday to head to Capitol Hill, where lawmakers were scheduled to confirm President-elect Joe Biden's presidential victory.\nRep. Rosa DeLauro, a Connecticut Democrat who is the chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, which opened a review into the law enforcement response to the Capitol riot, expressed sorrow in a Twitter post, saying her "heart breaks" over Sicknick's "senseless death."\n"To honor his memory, we must ensure that the mob who attacked the People's House and those who instigated them are held accountable," she said.}}
{{FILE - In this Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021 file photo, supporters of President Donald Trump climb the west wall of the the U.S. Capitol in Washington. In what could be the longest of legal longshots, several of those arrested for storming the U.S. Capitol are holding out hope that President Donald Trump will use some of his last hours in office to grant all the rioters a full and complete pardon. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP\nA Georgia cop who claimed he was among “the first ones over the fence” as a mob of pro-Trump rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol could face federal charges, authorities say.\nMichael Shane Daughtry is accused of “knowingly and willfully” joining the crowd that breached the federal building Jan. 6 and “impeded, disrupted and disturbed” lawmakers’ efforts to certify the results of the presidential election, according to a probable cause affidavit released by the Justice Department on Tuesday.\nDaughtry, a Pelham Police Department officer, not only bragged online about “pushing [our] way to the very front” of the Capitol but admitted to taking part in the violent siege in a recorded phone call with a fellow department officer — who alerted the FBI, according to the DOJ.\n“We [sic] the one that tore the fence down up there,” Daughtry said, according to the affidavit. “We was the first ones over the fence. Everybody followed us.”\nOn the call, Daughtry said he got as far as the Capitol door but was forced to retreat after officers shot him and others with rubber bullets, the document said.\nThe FBI said it launched an investigation Jan. 7 after the Pelham Police Department also provided investigators with screenshots from Daughtry’s personal Facebook page, which included posts about his plans to travel to Washington, D.C., to “support [Donald] Trump and put our two cents in.”\n“We’re headed to Washington, D.C. where they’re expecting 4 million people,” he wrote two days before the riot, according to screenshots included in the affidavit. “Looks like we have have to walk 5 about miles ... but it’ll be worth it to yell crap at [Nancy] Pelosi and the rest of the idiots that left wing retards voted into office.”\nIn a post from Jan. 6, Daughtry shared a picture of the Capitol and noted how it was easy to force his way upfront because “I look like security.” He also parroted false claims that the crowd had been infiltrated by Antifa protesters, who he claimed were “bussed in” by police to “fake clash” at the Capitol, according to screenshots of his other posts shared online.\n“The violence was all stagged [sic] by the Capital Police to make us look bad,” Daughtry said, the screenshots show. “I never saw one patriot cause any damage or cause any trouble.”\nPhotos and videos from that day showed rioters scaling walls, assaulting officers and smashing windows before breaching the Capitol Rotunda and, later, the House and Senate chambers, McClatchy News reported. At least five people died in the violence, including a U.S. Capitol Police officer.\nA Georgia woman was one of three rioters who died after suffering “medical emergencies” during the siege, while another woman was shot and killed by police, officials said.\nIt’s unclear if Daughtry is still employed with the police department in Pelham, located just over 50 miles north of Tallahassee, Florida.\nMcClatchy News reached out to the Pelham Police Department for comment and is awaiting a response.}}
{{“Biggs told the interviewer that the Capitol doors were wide open when he entered the building,” the complaint said. “Biggs denied any knowledge of any prior planning to storm the Capitol, and he had no idea who planned it.”\nOne of the videos reviewed by the FBI shows Biggs’ response, “That’s cool!” The complaint said after someone asked him what to say when people entered the Capitol. The agent, whose name has been deleted, also indicated that Biggs wore what appeared to be a walkie-talkie, along with several other suspected Proud Boys members.\nBiggs faces charges for obstructing, influencing, or impeding official proceedings; Intentionally entering a restricted building without legal authority; And knowingly and knowingly engaging in disorganized behavior to disrupt a congressional hearing.\nHe appears in court tomorrow. It is not clear if Biggs has appointed a lawyer.\nProud leader of Benin Enrique Tario was arrested on January 4 and taken into custody On suspicion of destroying property alleging the destruction of the Black Lives Matter sign in a historic Black Church in Washington, DC, last month, the sign was burned after it was uprooted from Asbury United Methodist Church, one of the oldest Black Church in the city. Churches.\nTario was arrested upon entering the city ahead of the pro-President Donald Trump rally that led to a mob attack on the Capitol. The Tarrio was found to have two high-capacity magazines and faced an additional rifle charge.}}
{{RANGERS fan have blasted Hugh Laurie after the actor echoed "we are the people" in a tweet about the Capitol riots.\nThe House and Blackadder star had hit out at the MAGA mob after shameful scenes in Washington DC on Wednesday.\n4 Hugh Laurie commented about 'the people' after Capitol riots Credit: Getty Images\nWriting about the recent violence at the Capitol building in the US, the 61-year-old said: "You are not the people. You are some people."\nBut many outraged Light Blues supporters felt his post echoed the famous Rangers slogan: "We are the people".\nThe tweet prompted an immediate backlash from fans, who were quick to point out the similarity.\nOne responded: “As a massive fan of House and a Rangers season ticket holder, this is a deeply upsetting tweet.”\nA baffled Laurie then replied asking: “How so?”\n4\nAnother fan then clarified: “It’s a long story, but Rangers’ motto is ‘We are the people.’\nLaurie then responded: “Got it. Should have known.”\nHowever, some supporters were not so easily placated, and advised Laurie to "tread carefully".\n4 Shameful scenes in Washington DC were blasted by leaders around the world Credit: AP:Associated Press\n4 Trump supporters stormed the Capitol on Wednesday Credit: AP:Associated Press\nLaurie replied again, vowing to "tip-toe past" to avoid further embarrassment.\nThe bizarre crossover has delighted many other social media users.\nOne wrote: “The things you come across lying in bed, perusing Twitter. This is brilliant, troops!”\nAnother joked said “Holy s***, House asked about Rangers. That’s simply the best.”\nAlthough English, Laurie is of Scottish descent and has previously spoken about his Scottish ties.\nMost read in Scottish News 'FALSE' Salmond blasts Sturgeon over 'untrue' testimony to inquiry into harassment claims Exclusive MONEYBLABBERS Scots cops paid informers more than £1.7m to grass on gangsters NEWS LATEST Glasgow dad sudden death, lockdown laws threat & child falls into canal give him A FARE CHANCE Glasgow cabbie begs for help in video after making just £18 in a day CAGED Scots thug who stabbed love rival Gers fan to death in street attack jailed for life WATER PLUNGE Emergency crews scrambled to Kelpies after child falls into canal\nIn a conversation with Glasgow-born chat show host Craig Ferguson in 2012 on the Late Late Show, he said: “I'm very pessimistic. "\nI hope you don't mind but I actually attribute this to my Scottish roots - dour.\n"I definitely think that's where it's from."\nCrowd of police pay tribute to US Capitol officer Brian D. Sicknick killed after being hit by fire extinguisher during MAGA riot\nWe pay for your stories and videos! Do you have a story or video for The Scottish Sun? Email us at scoop@thesun.co.uk or call 0141 420 5300}}
{{Smoke rises after an explosion in Beirut, Lebanon, on Tuesday, August 4. This image was obtained from a video on social media. From Karim Sokhn/Instagram/Reuters\nSmoke rises after an explosion in Beirut, Lebanon, on Tuesday, August 4. This image was obtained from a video on social media. From Karim Sokhn/Instagram/Reuters\nAn explosion in the Lebanese capital of Beirut has injured large numbers of people, authorities say, and damaged buildings for miles.\nThe source of the blast was initially blamed on a major fire at a warehouse for firecrackers, the state-run National News Agency reported. The director of the general security directorate later said the blast was caused by confiscated “high-explosive materials,” but he did not provide further details.\nThe explosion blew out windows in buildings across the city. A red cloud hung over the city as firefighting teams rushed to the scene.}}
{{Topline\nAuthorities have begun arresting and charging some of the prominent rioters who took part in an attempted insurrection at the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday that left members of Congress scared for their lives and the halls of the building trashed. Here’s who’s been taken into custody so far:\nPresident Donald Trump's supporters gather outside the Capitol building on Jan. 6, 2021. (Photo by ... [+] Probal Rashid/LightRocket via Getty Images) LightRocket via Getty Images\nKey Facts\nProud Boys organizer Joe Biggs was arrested will appear in court in Florida after a video allegedly shows Biggs saying “This is awesome!” while taking part in the mob storming of the Capitol. Tim Gionet, the far-right activist who often espouses Neo-Nazi conspiracy theories, was arrested in Houston Saturday, according to The Associated Press after allegedly taking part in the Jan. 6 Capitol riots Peter Stager, of Arkansas, who authorities identified as the man seen beating a police officer outside the Capitol building with an American flag, was charged Thursday with obstructing a law enforcement officer. Kevin Seefried, the man seen in viral pictures carrying a Confederate flag into the Capitol, was arrested on Thursday in Wilmington, Delaware after turning himself in, the New York Times first reported and Forbes later confirmed. Robert Keith Packer, who was seen outside House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office wearing a sweatshirt saying “Camp Auschwitz” was arrested Jan. 13 in Newport News, Virginia, according to multiple reports. Former U.S. swimmer and Olympic gold medalist Klete Keller was arrested Jan. 13 and charged with knowingly entering a restricted building, engaging in disorderly conduct at the Capitol and obstructing law enforcement for his alleged role in the Capitol insurrection; he was also seen wearing his Olympic team jacket inside the Capitol Rotunda. Aaron Mostofsky, the son of a Brooklyn judge who reportedly wandered around the Capitol wearing fur pelts and carrying a riot shield he claimed to find on the floor, was arrested Jan. 12 and charged with illegal entry and other offenses, the New York Times reported. John Marzulli, Public Information Officer for the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, told Forbes’ Andrew Solender that Mostofsky, 34, faces a maximum of 10 years in prison if convicted for theft of government property, his top charge. Police on Jan. 10 arrested Eric Gavelek Munchel and Larry Rendell Brock, two men spotted in a series of chilling photos carrying around zip tie handcuffs and wearing military-style vests in the Senate chamber. Jacob Anthony Chansley (a.k.a. Jake Angeli) of Arizona—who authorities say is the man widely photographed wearing buffalo horns and fur while storming shirtless through the Capitol—was arrested Jan. 9 and charged with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority, and with violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds, D.C. prosecutors said.\nThe man appearing to steal House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s (D-Calif.) podium in a viral Getty photo, Adam Johnson, was arrested on Jan. 9, according to multiple reports.\nAccording to multiple reports, 60-year-old Richard Barnett, of Arkansas, was arrested Jan. 8, after a photo of him sitting in a chair in Pelosi’s office and putting one of his feet up on her desk was widely shared and shown in media reports.\nWest Virginia state Rep. Derrick Evans (R) has also been arrested and charged, according to NBC News, after breaking into the Capitol while on a livestream while he shouted “Derrick Evans is in the Capitol!” Nick Ochs, the founder of “Proud Boys Hawaii” who took a selfie while smoking a cigarette inside the Capitol, was arrested Jan. 7 at Daniel K. Inouye International Airport as he returned to Hawaii, according to multiple reports.\nLonnie Coffman, of Alabama, was charged with possession of an unregistered firearm (destructive device) and carrying a pistol without a license, with prosecutors saying he had 11 Molotov cocktails in his vehicle. Mark Leffingwell has been charged with assault on a federal law enforcement officer and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds after he allegedly struck a police officer in the helmet and chest after forcing his way into the Senate chamber. The FBI has released dozens of images of rioters asking for more information, and has received thousands of tips as they look to track down more of the rioters. Charges for the rioters have included entering and remaining on restricted grounds, violent entry and theft of public property.\nOther Arrests\nNumerous others have been charged for their roles in the Capitol insurrection. A list of all charged by the DOJ so far can be found here.\nKey Background\nRioters organized online and openly planned to assault the U.S. Capitol, with some even taking the time to print t-shirts that said “Civil War January 6, 2021.” Still, law enforcement appeared completely unprepared for the mob that stormed that Capitol after being riled up Thursday morning Trump, and significant efforts are now underway to remove him from office before his term ends in 12 days. For much of the afternoon Jan. 6, rioters moved relatively unimpeded throughout the U.S. Capitol building, and most of the arrests on Jan. 6 were for curfew violations after D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser ordered the streets to be clear by 6 p.m. The lack of preparedness by Capitol Police has been widely condemned, especially since they responded with violence against mostly peaceful Black Lives Matter protesters in 2020. On Thursday, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund announced his resignation.\nTangent\nSome of the rioters took more extreme measures than just trashing the Capitol. Explosive devices with the potential to cause “great harm” were found outside both the Democratic National Committee and Republican National Committee headquarters.\nCrucial Quote\n“We will continue to methodically assess evidence, charge crimes and make arrests in the coming days and weeks to ensure that those responsible are held accountable under the law,” Attorney General Jeffrey A. Rosen said Thursday.\nFurther Reading\nOlympic Gold Medalist Klete Keller Charged After Allegedly Participating Capitol Riot (Forbes)\nThis Man Has Been Identified—And So Have Others Captured In Photos And Video Participating In Capitol Mob (Forbes)\nCapitol Police Chief Resigns Over Pro-Trump Riots (Forbes)\nCriminal Charges In Capitol Storming Coming On Thursday, Acting Attorney General Says (Forbes)}}
{{The Washington Post gave President Joe Biden “Four Pinocchios” for false claims that a new Georgia law would make it harder for working-class people to vote.\nPinocchio, you may remember from before Disneyland closed, is a puppet who becomes the world’s most obvious liar.\nThe law signed by Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp last week actually “expanded early voting for many Georgians,” according to the Post’s fact-checker, Glenn Kessler. “Not a single expert we consulted who has studied the law understood why Biden made this claim,” he wrote.\nThey don’t understand? Is there suddenly a shortage of cynicism in Washington? At least they’re not out of toilet paper.\n“What I’m worried about is how un-American this whole initiative is,” Biden said in the high-profile setting of his first presidential press conference. “It’s sick. It’s sick. Deciding in some states that you cannot bring water to people standing in line, waiting to vote; deciding that you’re going to end voting at five o’clock when working people are just getting off work; deciding that there will be no absentee ballots under the most rigid circumstances.”\nWhat really stacked up the Pinocchios was a written statement from Biden the next day: “Among the outrageous parts of this new state law, it ends voting hours early so working people can’t cast their vote after their shift is over.”\nNo, it doesn’t.\nBut in a prime example of Mark Twain’s observation that a lie can get halfway around the world before the truth can get its boots on, the call went up from activists to boycott Georgia, to boycott companies in Georgia, to boycott any company that donated to the campaign of a politician who voted for the law in Georgia.\nIt’s not just Biden pushing the false narrative. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer earned a “Mostly False” rating from Politifact for saying at a March 24 Senate hearing, “Republicans recently passed a bill to eliminate early voting on Sunday — a day when many churchgoing African Americans participate in voter drives known as Souls to the Polls.”\n“Reprehensible,” said Biden.\n“Reprehensible,” said Schumer.\nNot true, said the fact checkers. The bill signed by Kemp allows two days of Sunday voting.\nWhat’s the motive for the false claims?\nBiden acknowledged that he is “trying to figure out how to pass the legislation passed by the House,” which is facing an uphill climb in the Senate. The bill known as H.R. 1 and S1 would force states to adopt new election procedures such as automatic voter registration and no-excuse-needed mail voting, while gutting voter ID requirements and strict signature verification.\nWhatever you think of the proposed federal law, it’s not the best argument to flat-out lie about the state laws that supposedly make it necessary.\nThe Georgia law requires identification to request a vote-by-mail ballot, either a driver’s license number or some other type of ID showing residence, such as a utility bill. It continues the practice of allowing counties to offer early voting during business hours, ending at 5 p.m. It says ballot drop-boxes must be located inside government buildings.\n“This makes Jim Crow look like Jim Eagle,” Biden said.\nThe president’s false and inflammatory language, together with furious demands from activists for a boycott, led to a parade of CEOs denouncing Georgia’s law. “Unacceptable,” said Delta Airlines CEO Ed Bastian. “Unacceptable,” said Coca-Cola CEO James Quincey. “American history is the story of expanding the right to vote to all citizens,” said Apple CEO Tim Cook, “and Black people, in particular, have had to march, struggle and even give their lives for more than a century to defend that right.”\nYes, but this is not that.\nNonetheless, Biden continued his Pinocchio tour with an interview on ESPN in which he praised Major League Baseball players for calling for this summer’s All-Star Game to be moved out of Atlanta in protest. “I would strongly support them doing that,” the president said, calling Georgia’s law “Jim Crow on steroids.”\nHowever, Georgia voting rights activist Stacey Abrams, while denouncing companies for “mealy-mouthed responses” to the law, cautioned against boycotts. “One lesson of boycotts is that the pain of deprivation must be shared to be sustainable,” she said, warning that “boycotts are complicated affairs that require a long-term commitment to action.”\nWhat’s also complicated is the management of a false narrative. Voter ID isn’t Jim Crow.\nRelated Articles Rampant injustices at SoCal’s MWD: Ada Briceño\nNewsom must stop favoring big donor corporations\nEnough of our endless immigration grudge match\nState high court takes fair middle ground on bail\nNew Greenprint initiative threatens to undermine regional housing efforts One of Georgia’s most distinguished residents, former President Jimmy Carter, was the co-chair of a commission that in 2005 recommended that the country adopt national voter ID laws along with procedures to ensure that everyone can easily get the required ID. A recent poll by Rasmussen Reports found that 75% of likely U.S. voters believe voters “should be required to show photo identification such as a driver’s license before being allowed to vote.”\nThirty-six states currently have some form of voter ID requirement. If H.R. 1 passes, those laws would go. At that point, it would take a constitutional amendment to require voter ID. Under Article V of the Constitution, an amendment may be proposed by two-thirds of the state legislatures. It becomes effective when ratified by three-quarters of them, a total of 38. Congress, the president and the Supreme Court have no role in that process.\nThink of it as James Madison on steroids.\nSusan Shelley is an editorial writer and columnist for the Southern California News Group. Susan@SusanShelley.com. Twitter: @Susan_Shelley}}
{{Former US vice president Joe Biden has promised to rejoin the Paris Climate Agreement if he wins the presidency.\nWhile the US election still hangs in the balance, a win by Democrat Joe Biden comes with the promise of the US rejoining the Paris climate agreement, as he has vowed to do on his first day in office. But doing so risks widening the divide not only between disaffected Donald Trump voters who want to protect traditional jobs in oil and gas but from progressives within his own party pushing for a New Green deal.\nAdvertising Read more\nAs the vote count continued after one of the most bitterly contested US presidential elections, the United States became the first country to withdraw from the international UN climate pledge known as the Paris Agreement.\nJoe Biden criticised the move and vowed to make climate a priority.\n"Today, the Trump Administration officially left the Paris Climate Agreement. And in exactly 77 days, a Biden Administration will rejoin it," tweeted Biden, who would take the presidential oath of office on January 20.\nToday, the Trump Administration officially left the Paris Climate Agreement. And in exactly 77 days, a Biden Administration will rejoin it. https://t.co/L8UJimS6v2 — Joe Biden (@JoeBiden) November 5, 2020\nBiden, if he wins the presidential race, would be able to sign a decree to return to the pact, adding the US to 187 other countries already signed up to the accord. Whichever way the election goes, it could make or break international climate change policy, particularly as the US is the world’s second-largest emitter of greenhouse gases behind China.\nBiden, for his part, has also proposed a $1.7-trillion plan that is focused on clean energy, green jobs and with a goal of carbon-free electricity by 2035 and net-zero emissions by 2050. The plan shifts the country’s course away from the Trump trajectory that has strongly backed the fossil-fuel industry, given more oxygen to theories espoused by climate-change deniers and scaled back environmental protections.\nSigning the Paris pact could also help steer the global conversation on climate change and reassert the US role as a global leader.\nMay Boeve, executive director of the California-based global environmental advocacy group 350.org, said in an interview with USA Today that a lack of US leadership on climate in the long term jeopardises other areas of global cooperation, such as trade and human rights.\n“Whatever the final result of the election, don’t count the United States out," she said. "There are millions of Americans who reject this regression, are committed to climate justice, and are demanding that the U.S. ... uphold the goals of Paris and go beyond."\nBut getting there will have its challenges.\nNot only will the US need to restore its international standing on climate change, but possibly even more challenging for Biden will be wrestling with dissenting progressives and climate-change activists that want to do more, and quickly.\nProgressives on the left were less than captivated by Biden’s stance on climate and preferred to back Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders. Youth-led climate-change activists the Sunrise Movement – who were behind the Green New Deal and who gained the support of congressional Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and other Democrats – awarded Biden an “F” grade for his climate plan and said they would hold him to account by running a “multi-month campaign” to make climate change a priority.\nPretty cool that @JoeBiden’s most confident statement yet about being the next President of the United States is about Day 1 action to address the climate crisis.\nBiden has a climate mandate, and our movement will make sure he acts on it. https://t.co/T0QheeM64k — Evan Weber 🌅🔥 (@evanlweber) November 5, 2020\nCredibility gap at home\nThe vanguard of Green New Deal advocates is buoyed by a generation of first-time voters, like the Sunrise movement, that is intent on pushing for more radical reform. They want rapid decarbonisation and a ban on oil and gas production.\nThey have criticised former vice president Biden for a deficit of policy details on tackling climate change.\nFrom within the party’s centre, where Biden coalesced his support, the Democrats have been treading a delicate course trying both to appease voices demanding an urgent rollout of reforms while being cautious not to stir up alarm over jobs by advocating shifts that could disrupt the country’s oil and gas industry.\nIn one of the televised debates with Trump, the former vice president said he was for a “transition” away from the oil industry in favour of renewable energy but later clarified his statement by saying he would stop government funds from flowing to the oil industry.\n“We’re not going to get rid of fossil fuels. We’re going to get rid of subsidies for fossil fuels,” he said.\nBiden will no doubt need to commit to a massive economic stimulus and creating jobs in renewable industries. He may, however, be hamstrung by a Congress unwilling to support major reform that could impact the oil and gas industry at a time when the economy is already being battered by the Covid-19 pandemic.\nThe United States has become the world’s largest oil and gas producer and the industry reportedly employs up to 10 million Americans.\nDean Baker, from the Washington, DC-based Center for Economic and Policy Research, said in an interview with FRANCE 24 that he believed that Biden, and not Trump, had a clearer path to economic recovery.\n“Having a Green New Deal and promoting clean energy... would meet the real needs of large segments of the population and provide a clear path for recovery.”\nFanning flames of economic rivalry\nDuring his presidency, Trump fanned the flames of economic rivalry in a smouldering trade war that centred on accusations made by the president that China “took advantage” of the US on trade, blaming China for taking manufacturing and technology jobs away from Americans.\nIt is a narrative that continued to resonate with Americans worried about job losses and was reflected in voting trends this election. Many of the nation’s economically marginalised and traditional working-class voters failed to back Biden in sufficient numbers to achieve what pundits dubbed the “Blue wave”, a Democratic sweep.\nBut stoking fears of job losses caused by a transition into greener energies was a narrative that ran counter to the economic reality under Trump. Despite the president’s efforts to revive the coal industry, more capacity was retired under his presidency than during former president Barack Obama’s second term while renewable energy hit record highs in production and consumption in 2019.\n'Explosion in fracking'\nBiden has yet to reveal the details of what a climate change policy that includes a transition to renewables would look like. He supports natural gas, driven by hydraulic fracturing or “fracking”, which accounts for 35 percent of US energy production, despite stern opposition from climate change activists. Biden has defended his support for the fuel as a “bridge” to renewables and said he would not ban fracking.\nAccording to Baker, the US has seen “an explosion of fracking in large parts of the country, certainly in Pennsylvania”, adding that “for better or worse” it was also the policy of the Obama administration.\n“They were also supportive of fracking. The difference is Biden and Obama wanted some regulation of that, whereas Trump has said, 'Do what you want',” Baker told FRANCE 24.\nThough when the time comes to cross the bridge away from fracking, Biden will need to build trust with other international allies, including China. The US is dependent on China for minerals, some of which are essential for renewables like solar and wind power.\n“We can’t just push them (China) around,” Mr Baker said. “We have to figure out if you want serious relations with China what are the key issues that we should be upset about and we’ll have to make concessions. I’ve seen zero evidence of what Trump wants to do except pick a fight. And we can’t do that with China,” he said.\nIf the US once again signs the Paris pact, it will need to catch up to other nations who have already pledged and begun to cut emissions and move towards carbon neutrality.\nSouth Korea and Japan, Britain and the EU are all part of a “growing coalition of nations committed to achieving carbon neutrality by 2050”, said UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric, pointing to signs of progress in an interview with AFP.\nChina, too, has announced it would set its own net-zero targets.\nIn an interview with the New York Times, Todd Stern, who served as climate change envoy under Obama, said that the US would first need to prioritise climate change action on the domestic side. “We have to demonstrate that this really is a very high priority and that the new president is moving full speed ahead.”\nWhatever inroads his administration may make on global cooperation for the environment, Biden will face a tough battle to push through climate change reforms at home. Republicans look likely to keep control of the Senate – and with that, action on climate change remains in their hands.\nDaily newsletterReceive essential international news every morning Subscribe}}
{{The letter noted that Biden has enjoyed virtually uncritical support from Black voters, who rescued his flagging campaign with a resounding victory in the South Carolina Democratic primary. The former vice president went on to sweep several contests on Super Tuesday, putting him on a glide path to the nomination.}}
{{LifeSiteNews is facing increasing censorship. Click HERE to sign up to receive emails when we add to our video library.\nCHICAGO, Illinois, January 7, 2021 (LifeSiteNews) – Cardinal Blase Cupich, the archbishop of Chicago, posted a strongly worded statement in response to the recent protests seen at the Capitol, calling them a “national disgrace.” However, when Black Lives Matter protests throughout the nation turned violent last year, Cupich had remained silent.\nCupich’s long message on Twitter dealt with protestors entering the Capitol building yesterday, while the election certification was ongoing. The cardinal wrote that the events “should shock the conscience of any patriotic American and any faithful Catholic,” adding that the “eyes of the world look on in horror.”\nHe added that over “many months we have witnessed the deliberate erosion of the norms of our system of government,” and highlighted the “sacred right” of “peaceful protest.”\n“Violence” is the “opposite” of “social progress,” Cupich continued, saying that “politics is the peaceful resolution of conflicting points of view.”\nWhat has been unfolding at the Capitol today should shock the conscience of any patriotic American and any faithful Catholic. The eyes of the world look on in horror as we suffer this national disgrace. — Cardinal Cupich (@CardinalBCupich) January 7, 2021\nThe cardinal also asked for prayers for the woman who was shot during yesterday’s events, events which he termed “rioting.”\nHowever, despite his string of tweets condemning the protestors entering the Capitol, the cardinal was markedly silent during the nation-wide Black Lives Matter (BLM) riots, which caused widespread destruction and physical harm. At the time, Cupich issued a statement on the death of George Floyd, which served as the catalyst for the BLM riots, in which he briefly declared himself to be “horrified” at the violence in Chicago in the aftermath of the killing, but added that he was not surprised.\n“I do not know what it means to be ‘other’. But I know there is a way to fix it,” the cardinal declared, before effectively dismissing all discussion about the morality of the violent riots: “And the fix begins when we stop talking about the proportionality of ‘their’ response and start talking about the proportionality of ‘ours’.”\n“We do not need a study of the causes and effects,” Cupich claimed.\nA few days later, Cupich gave an address at a meeting organised by Illinois state governor Pritzker, in which he called for peace, not from the rioters, but towards them: “we need peaceful action to stop the hatred that has ended the lives of countless black Americans.”\nHe equated racism to COVID-19 and commented that “[r]acism is the red thread that runs through the binding that holds America back from reaching its promise: equality and justice for all.”\nIn fact, the cardinal also employed the now famous term “peaceful protesters” when describing the violent riots, asking that the “aims” of the rioters be not ignored: “No one should allow themselves to dismiss the aims of peaceful protesters because some among them exploited the anger by engaging in criminal acts. Nor should we dismiss the legitimate work of first responders and law enforcement, despite the dangerous overreactions of some against protesters and journalists reporting on these demonstrations.”\nThe “peaceful” protests which Cupich referred to saw over 700 police and law enforcement officers injured by mid-June alone, and by late September over 300 rioters had been charged for offenses “under the guise of peaceful demonstrations.” Antifa rioters violently made a stronghold in Portland, Oregon, burning and causing destruction to the city, while the Associated Press issued guidance that riots should no longer be called that, but termed unrest instead.\n— Article continues below Petition —\nShow Petition Text 0 have signed the petition. Let's get to 1 ! Thank you for signing this petition! Add your signature: Show Petition Text Country... State... Sign this Petition Country... State... Sign this Petition Hide Petition Text Sign this Petition\nWriting for LifeSiteNews back in August, Mary Ann Kreitzer described how “Chicago, once under the thumb of gangsters like Al Capone, has new mob bosses, Marxist overlords with their mob strategy.”\nCommenting on the BLM riots, Kreitzer noted, “While they scream about love, they assault those with whom they disagree and destroy property indiscriminately, actions they would likely avoid as individuals.”\nDespite all of this, Cardinal Cupich sent out tweets seeming to favor the rioters, with only one message that seemed to express disapproval of violence — that being a retweet of one of Pope Francis’s tweets.\nIn fact, in October, Cupich repeated his earlier comments by writing in the Chicago Tribune that “[i]t has been a summer of anguish for Black Americans.” He decried the “systemic racism” in society, even claiming that Catholics “cannot turn away from the church’s own history” in the matter.\nCupich’s article highlighted the shootings of two black Americans by police, yet he did not address the wider issue of violent crime, which saw 492 criminal homicides in 2019. (Most recent figures available.)\nIt is unclear why Cupich rebuked one set of protestors, yet almost lauded another.\nThe Lepanto Institute presented research which showed that the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB), through their Catholic Campaign for Human Development (CCHD), were actually funding four organizations that supported riots and whose goals include not only defunding police, but even killing them.}}
{{CHARLESTON, W.Va. (AP) — A West Virginia state lawmaker has been charged with entering a restricted area of the U.S. Capitol after he livestreamed himself rushing into the building with a mob of pro-Trump supporters, the Justice Department announced Friday.\nKen Kohl, a top deputy federal prosecutor in Washington, announced the charge against Republican state Del. Derrick Evans on a call in which he presented dozens of new charges against members of the crowd that violently stormed the Capitol on Wednesday.\nHis lawyer, John Bryan, said he hadn’t seen the complaint against Evans and couldn’t comment. He did not say if Evans had been taken into custody, but television station WSAZ posted a video on Twitter showing FBI agents escorting the handcuffed lawmaker from a home.\nREAD MORE: How the attack on the U.S. Capitol unfolded\nLegislators from at least seven other states traveled to Washington, D.C., to support President Donald Trump and demonstrate against the counting of electoral votes confirming Democrat Joe Biden’s victory. It’s unknown if any other elected official joined the attack on the Capitol.\nA growing number of Republicans and Democrats said they want to expel Evans from the legislature if he does not resign. Bryan said late Thursday that the delegate did not commit a crime and doesn’t plan to resign.\nIn his now-deleted video, widely shared online, Evans is clamoring inside a jampacked Capitol building doorway, trying with others to push his way inside. He hollers along with other Trump loyalists and fist-bumps a law enforcement officer who let them in.\n“Our house!” Evans yells inside Capitol halls. “I don’t know where we’re going. I’m following the crowd.”}}
{{article\nChicago officials are restricting parking across most of the downtown area Saturday afternoon ahead of a Loop protest planned in the wake of the Minneapolis police killing of George Floyd.\nThe restrictions will extend from Chicago Avenue south to Ida B. Wells Drive, and from Lake Shore Drive west to Wells Street, according to the Chicago Office of Emergency Management and Communications.\nCars found in the area will be towed to 1802 S. Lake Shore Drive, officials said.\nA second round of protests are expected to kick off about 2 p.m. at Federal Plaza near Adams and Dearborn streets.}}
{{Two enormous explosions rocked the Lebanese capital’s port on Tuesday, killing and wounding dozens of people, shaking buildings and sending huge plumes of smoke billowing into the Beirut sky.\nVideo footage of the second blast showed an enormous orange fireball that dwarfed nearby buildings and sent a devastating tornado-like shockwave ripping through the city.\n“We heard an explosion, then we saw the mushroom,” said one resident who witnessed the second, deafening explosion from her balcony in the city’s Mansourieh district.\n“The force of the blast threw us backwards into the apartment,” she said.\nLebanese media carried images of people trapped under rubble, many bloodied, after the massive blasts, the cause of which was not immediately known.\nA soldier at the port, who asked not to be named, told AFP: “It’s a catastrophe inside. There are corpses on the ground. Ambulances are still lifting the dead.”\nThe official National News Agency confirmed deaths in the blast, without citing a number.\nThe explosions “caused dozens of injuries,” a security source said.\nThe AFP correspondent said every shop in the Hamra commercial district had sustained damage, with entire storefronts destroyed, windows shattered and many cars wrecked.\nInjured people were walking in the street, while outside the Clemenceau Medical Centre, dozens of wounded people, many covered in blood, were rushing to be admitted to the centre, including children.\nDestroyed cars had been abandoned in the street with their airbags inflated.\nA huge cloud of black smoke was engulfing the entire port area, as helicopters flew to dump water on the burning buildings.\nThe port zone was cordoned off by the security forces, allowing access only to a string of ambulances, fire trucks and people whose relatives were working inside the devastated area, while others were screaming to be let through.\nA huge blaze was burning at the port, where ambulances were rushing away the wounded, their sirens wailing.\nThe blasts were heard as far away as Nicosia on the eastern Mediterranean island of Cyprus, 240 kilometres (150 miles) away.\nBenjamin Strick, who works with investigations website Bellingcat, said on Twitter that the explosions appeared to have been centred on a 130 metre (420 foot) grey warehouse alongside a dock inside the port zone.\nVideo stills showed a intense blazing fireball rising higher than a line of towering storage silos, with a subsequent cloud towering into the sky.\n‘Like an earthquake’\n“Buildings are shaking,” tweeted one resident, while another wrote: “An enormous, deafening explosion just engulfed Beirut. Heard it from miles away.”\nOnline footage from a Lebanese newspaper office showed blown out windows, scattered furniture and demolished interior panelling.\nThe explosions hit Lebanon as it suffers its worst economic crisis in decades which has left nearly half of the population in poverty.\nThe country’s economy has collapsed in recent months, with the local currency plummeting against the dollar, businesses closing en masse and poverty soaring at the same alarming rate as unemployment.\nThe country’s worst crisis since the 1975-1990 civil war has sparked months of street demonstrations against the government.\nThe explosions also come as Lebanon awaits a UN tribunal’s verdict Friday on the 2005 murder of former Lebanese premier Rafic Hariri, killed in a huge truck bomb attack.\nFour alleged members of the Shiite Muslim movement Hezbollah are on trial in absentia at a court in the Netherlands over the huge Beirut bombing that killed Sunni billionaire Hariri and 21 other people.\nA woman in the city centre Tuesday told AFP: “It felt like an earthquake … I felt it was bigger than the explosion in the assassination of Rafic Hariri in 2005”.\nTensions have also been high with neighbouring Israel, after Israel said it thwarted an infiltration attempt by up to five Hezbollah gunmen, a claim denied by the Lebanon-based and Iran-backed group.\nAFP}}
{{WASHINGTON (WHDH) - A Massachusetts man is among the dozens of suspects facing charges following a deadly riot at the United States Capitol Wednesday.\nDavid Ross, 33, of Pittsfield, appeared in Superior Court of the District of Columbia Thursday, where he pleaded not guilty to unlawful entry and violating the city’s 6 p.m. curfew, according to court documents.\nA judge ordered him to stay away from Washington, D.C.\nCapitol police announced Thursday that Thomas Gallagher, of Bridgewater, New Hampshire, was charged with unlawful entry.\nThe riots involving pro-President Donald Trump supporters led to the deaths of a Capitol police officer and four others.\n(Copyright (c) 2020 Sunbeam Television. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.)}}
{{The Americus attorney accused of storming the U.S. Capitol after claiming to have been among the rioters who went inside House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office on Jan. 6 was on Thursday ordered to remain behind bars while the case against him plays out.\nThe bespectacled, gray-bearded and ponytailed William McCall Calhoun Jr., shackled at the waist and feet and wearing a soft-blue surgical mask, sat in federal court in Macon for a three-hour detention hearing where a judge ruled Calhoun a potential danger were he released from custody.\nCalhoun, 58, was escorted in by five U.S. Marshals and represented by an appointed lawyer. He said nothing for the record — though he was never asked to — as prosecutors laid out alleged evidence against him in their efforts to keep him jailed.\nCalhoun was arrested in Macon on Friday after federal agents tracked him down at his sister’s house. Though he maintains a home inside his Sumter County law practice some 75 miles away, he had been staying at his sister’s place for a week or so in the wake of the Washington D.C., riot.\nHe faces charges that include violent entry and entering a restricted building.\nRifles, shotguns and ammo found in house\nIn his bedroom at the Macon house where he was arrested, investigators said they found a Glock pistol and brass knuckles on the nightstand along with four rifles, including a pair of AR-15-style weapons, and four shotguns. Ammunition boxes nearby were said to contain hundreds if not more than 1,000 rounds.\nAgents were also said to have found a scarf and a baseball cap they used confirm his identity as one of the people in photographs and videos taken of the Capitol mob.\nOn the witness stand Thursday, FBI agent Timothy D. Armentrout — who had been informed by a tipster in November of “threatening” social media posts purportedly made by Calhoun — read aloud a number of the remarks.\nOne on Calhoun’s Facebook account the day of the Capitol attack included a picture of a throng outside the building, which read, “We’re going to get inside the Capitol before this ends.”\nAnother posting on his Facebook page from Jan. 6 mentioned how “we overran multiple police barricades and stormed the building. ... Somebody yelled push through, so we did.”\nThe same post mentioned a breach of Pelosi’s office: “Crazy Nancy probably would have been torn into little pieces but she was nowhere to be seen.”\nOther posts linked to Calhoun from days prior included the phrases “stack up body bags,” “sling hot lead” and “slaughter.” Calhoun also boasted online of being able to make a “head shot” with a rifle from 200 meters.\nProsecutors showed a Twitter post that they say Calhoun wrote a couple of weeks before the election: “When Trump makes the call, millions of heavily armed, pissed off patriots are coming to Washington.”\nCalhoun’s lawyer, Tim Saviello, referring to his client’s presence in the nation’s capital on Jan. 6, said in court Thursday that Calhoun “admits he trespassed but did it for the love of his country.”\nSaviello called Calhoun’s sister, Mary Calhoun, to the stand to explain that were her brother to be set free to await indictment or trial that he would be welcome in her home.\n“He wouldn’t hurt anyone,” she said.\nShe said she had kept her brother’s dog while he went to Washington and that before he left she asked William Calhoun if he was taking any weapons. She said he told her he was not, that it was illegal.\n“I felt like it was going to be OK,” she said of the trip.\nA ‘dangerous and violent ideology’\nIn the end, despite William Calhoun’s lack of a criminal history and people he knows vouching for his character in affidavits, magistrate Judge Charles H. Weigle said Calhoun’s statements on social media show “that he has been corrupted by or seduced by the dangerous and the violent ideology that considers the United States to be in a civil war ... and anyone that voted Democrat to be worthy of execution.”\nWeigle described Calhoun’s online language as “extremely violent” and included such words and phrases as “slaughtering,” “head shots,” “hanging President Biden” and “tearing Nancy Pelosi to shreds.”\nAnd when Calhoun was arrested, the judge added, he was “armed to the teeth.”\nWeigle went on to say that “the biggest issue” Calhoun faced when it came to determining whether he was a threat to society pretrial was this: That Calhoun had acted on claims he would be at the Capitol on Jan. 6.\n“You bragged about it,” the judge said. “You said that it was your patriotic duty. ... And crossed a sacred, sacred line. That was an act of extreme violence by every single person (there).”\n‘You don’t respect the Capitol’\nWeigle spoke of the august, century-old courtroom they were inside Thursday at the corner of Third and Mulberry streets in downtown Macon.\nThe judge said such buildings, not unlike the Capitol, “reflect the majesty of the law and the Constitution of the United States. ... And the Capitol building is the pinnacle of that. When you and your friends went in there and tore the place to shreds, (and) killed five people, including a police officer, you showed that ... there was nothing that would hold you back except force.”\nThe result, Weigle said, was that 25,000 National Guard members had to stand guard over Wednesday’s presidential inauguration, a fact the judge termed “a shame ... for our entire country.”\nWeigle, in closing, told Calhoun, “You don’t respect the Capitol Police, you don’t respect the Capitol building of the United States, I don’t have any reason to believe that you will respect anything I tell you to do. ... I have no comfort with sending a probation officer to your house to meet with you. I would be afraid for their life. I would be afraid for my life ... based on what you’ve said and what you’ve done.”\nThe Associated Press contributed to this report.}}
{{A huge explosion rocked Beirut, Lebanon’s capital, on Tuesday, August 4. The cause of the explosion was not immediately clear.\nElie Fawaz said he captured this video in the downtown district of Gemmayze, close to the site of the explosion. The footage shows downed trees, cars covered in dust, and people running through the street. Sirens can be heard in the distance too.\nOver 50 people were killed and more than 2,700 were injured, according to figures released by Lebanon’s health minister on Tuesday evening. Credit: Elie Fawaz via Storyful}}
{{This undated image provided by the United States Capitol Police shows U.S. Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick, who died Thursday, Jan. 7, 2021, of injuries sustained during the riot at the Capitol. A native of South River, N.J., Sicknick served in the New Jersey Air National Guard and went on to a law enforcement career, which his family said was his lifelong dream. He joined the Capitol Police in 2008. (United States Capitol Police via AP)\nRICHMOND, Va. (WRIC/AP) — The U.S. Capitol Police officer who was killed during Wednesday’s riot was a Virginia Resident, according to Gov. Ralph Northam’s office.\nBrian D. Sicknick, 42, was a military veteran and a resident of Northern Virginia. Northam’s office said he served with the USCP for 12 years.\nThe officer’s family released a statement Friday saying Sicknick wanted to be a police officer his entire life.\n“Many details regarding Wednesday’s events and the direct causes of Brian’s injuries remain unknown, and our family asks the public and the press to respect our wishes in not making Brian’s passing a political issue,” the family said.\nAccording to USCP, Officer Sicknick was injured while responding to the riots on Wednesday, Jan. 6. The Associated Press said two law enforcement officials told them Officer Sicknick was hit in the head with a fire extinguisher “while physically engaging with protesters.” The officials said they could not discuss the ongoing investigation publicly and spoke to AP on condition of anonymity.\nThe department said Officer Sicknick was taken to a local hospital where he succumbed to his injuries, at about 9:30 p.m. on Jan. 7.\n“Officer Sicknick was killed while doing his job—defending those trapped in the Capitol building amid a violent attack on our democracy,” Northam said in a statement. “His death is a tragedy, and those responsible must be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”\nUSCP said Officer Sicknick’s death will be investigated by the Metropolitan Police Department’s Homicide Branch the USCP, and its federal partners.\n“The entire USCP Department expresses its deepest sympathies to Officer Sicknick’s family and friends on their loss, and mourns the loss of a friend and colleague,” USCP said in a statement.\nInformation from the Associated Press was used in this story.}}
{{Washington Gov. Jay Inslee joined other senior politicians from the state Thursday in calling for President Donald Trump's removal from office, calling him a "cancer" at the heart of the insurrection at the nation's Capitol.\nInslee spoke during a preview of the legislative session hosted by The Associated Press. The Democrat said Trump must be removed from office by any legal means necessary.\nSeveral members of Washington's congressional delegation have also called for Trump to be impeached or stripped of power through the 25th Amendment, including U.S. Sen. Patty Murray, the Senate's third-ranking Democrat.\nRELATED: At least 7 members of Washington congressional delegation call for Trump's removal from office\n"We need to go to the heart of that insurrection, and remove that cancer, and that means the president of the United States, who has continually fueled this insurrection with his outright deception," Inslee said.\nSeveral members of Washington’s congressional delegation have also called for Trump to be impeached or stripped of power through the 25th Amendment, which allows the vice president to assume the duties of the presidency if the president cannot function.\nAdvertisement\n"The insurrectionists who stormed the Capitol today should be held fully accountable for their actions under the law. So should the President," Sen. Patty Murray, the Senate's third-ranking Democrat, said in a written statement Thursday. "The most immediate way to ensure the President is prevented from causing further harm in coming days is to invoke the 25th Amendment and remove him from office. As history watches, I urge Vice President Pence and the President’s cabinet to put country before party and act."\nInslee also addressed an incident at the governor's mansion in Olympia on Wednesday, when Trump loyalists broke through a gate and demonstrated on the front lawn and porch with the governor inside. The Washington State Patrol is reviewing the incident to improve security, he said, but no decision has been made about whether to call out the National Guard to help ensure safety when the legislative session begins Monday.\nRead more on the Jan. 6 violence at the Capitol building.}}
{{MINNEAPOLIS — The judge overseeing the trial of a former Minneapolis police officer accused in the death of George Floyd on Monday paused jury selection for at least a day while an appeal proceeds over the possible reinstatement of a third-degree murder charge.\nAs hundreds of protesters gathered outside the courthouse to call for the conviction of Derek Chauvin, Judge Peter Cahill said he does not have jurisdiction to rule on whether the third-degree murder charge should be reinstated against the former officer while the issue is being appealed. But he said prosecutors' arguments that the whole case would be impacted were "tenuous."\nCahill planned to go ahead with the trial anyway and initially ruled jury selection would begin as scheduled on Monday. But after prosecutors filed a request with the Court of Appeals to put the case on hold, the judge sent the potential jurors home for the day. Cahill called a recess to give the Court of Appeals time to respond, but planned to bring attorneys back into the courtroom Monday afternoon to deal with other matters.\nCahill said the trial would proceed unless the higher courts told him to stop.\nChauvin is charged with second-degree murder and manslaughter in Floyd’s death. The Court of Appeals last week ordered Cahill to consider reinstating a third-degree murder charge that he had dismissed. Legal experts say reinstating the charge would improve the odds of getting a conviction.\nChauvin's attorney, Eric Nelson, said Monday he would ask the state Supreme Court to review the appellate ruling. He has 30 days to seek a review.\nFor the unintentional second-degree murder charge, prosecutors have to prove that Chauvin's conduct was a "substantial causal factor" in Floyd's death, and that Chauvin was committing felony assault at the time. For third-degree murder, they must prove that Chauvin's actions caused Floyd's death, and that his actions were reckless and without regard for human life.\nGet the Breaking News newsletter! Get the latest breaking news as it happens. By clicking Sign up, you agree to our privacy policy.\nFloyd was declared dead May 25 after Chauvin, who is white, pressed his knee against the handcuffed Black man's neck for about nine minutes, holding his position even after Floyd went limp. Floyd’s death sparked sometimes violent protests in Minneapolis and beyond, and led to a nationwide reckoning on race.\nChauvin and three other officers were fired; the others face an August trial on aiding and abetting charges.\nHundreds of people gathered outside the courthouse as proceedings began, many carrying signs that read, "Justice for George Floyd" and "Convict Killer Cops."\nOne speaker took a microphone and decried the concrete barriers topped by chain-link fencing, barbed wire and razor wire set up around the courthouse. DJ Hooker, 26, also ridiculed talk of the Chauvin trial as "the trial of the century," saying the jury simply needs to "do the right thing."\nThen he led the crowd in chants of "The whole world is watching!"\nInside the courtroom, Chauvin, in a blue suit and black mask, followed the proceedings attentively, making notes on a legal pad. Bridgett Floyd, George Floyd’s sister and founder of the George Floyd Memorial Foundation, sat in the seat allocated to Floyd's family. No one attended to support Chauvin.\nOnce jury selection starts, it is expected to take at least three weeks, as prosecutors and defense attorneys try to weed out people who may be biased against them.\n"You don’t want jurors who are completely blank slates, because that would mean they’re not in tune at all with the world," Susan Gaertner, a former prosecutor, said. "But what you want is jurors who can set aside opinions that have formed prior to walking into the courtroom and give both sides a fair hearing."\nNelson earlier argued that pretrial publicity of the case and the subsequent violent unrest in Minneapolis would make it impossible to find an impartial jury in Hennepin County. But Cahill said last year that moving the trial probably wouldn't cure the problem of a potentially tainted jury pool because "no corner of the State of Minnesota" has been shielded from pretrial publicity.\nThe potential jurors — who must be at least 18, U.S. citizens and residents of Hennepin County — were sent questionnaires to determine how much they have heard about the case and whether they’ve formed any opinions. Besides biographical and demographic information, jurors were asked about prior contacts with police, whether they have protested against police brutality and whether they believe the justice system is fair.\nSome of the questions get specific, such as how often a potential juror has watched the bystander video of Floyd’s arrest, or whether they carried a sign at a protest and what that sign said.\nMike Brandt, a local defense attorney, said prosecutors will likely seek out jurors who have favorable opinions on the Black Lives Matter movement or might have more outrage over Floyd’s death, while Chauvin’s attorneys would likely favor jurors who support the police.\nUnlike typical jury selection proceedings, potential jurors will be questioned individually rather than in a group. The judge, defense attorney and prosecutors will all get to ask questions. The defense can object to up to 15 potential jurors without giving a reason; prosecutors can block up to nine without providing a reason. Either side can object to these peremptory challenges if they believe the sole reason for disqualifying a juror is race or gender.\nBoth sides can also argue to dismiss an unlimited number of jurors "for cause," meaning they must provide a reason why they believe that juror shouldn’t serve. Those situations can get into "some tortured questioning," Brandt said. It’s up to the judge to decide whether a juror stays or goes.\nHe said that even if a juror says they have had a negative interaction with the police or hold negative views about Black Lives Matter, the key will be trying to find out whether they can put those past experiences or opinions aside and be fair.\n"We all walk into these with biases. The question is, can you put those biases aside and be fair in this case," he said.\nJury selection will end after 14 people are picked — 12 jurors who will deliberate the case and two alternates who won’t be part of deliberations unless needed. The jurors will be escorted to the courthouse daily and sequestered during deliberations. Their names will be kept confidential until further order of the court.\nThe number of seats in the courtroom has been limited to maintain social distancing due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and seats for jurors have been spaced out. Like others in the courtroom, jurors will be required to wear masks.\nThe earliest opening statements will begin is March 29.}}
{{Many President-Elect Biden supporters feel President Trump is responsible for the attack on Capitol Hill. The presidents supporters disagree.\nMONTGOMERY COUNTY, OHIO (WDTN) – Following the attacks on Capitol Hill Wednesday, many people are divided when deciding who’s to blame for the violence and corruption. Many of President-elect Biden’s supporters feel President Trump encouraged people to cause violence on the Capitol, following a speech he gave to thousands of Trump fans.\n“President Trump did rile them up. He’s been lying to them for a few months that this was a rigged election that was stolen from him. What happened yesterday was a shame, a stain on our democracy,” said Montgomery County’s Democratic Chairman Mark Owens.\nHowever, others, like former 2016 Ohio Trump Campaign Director Rob Scott, feel those allegations are false.\n“The feeling that the election that the election wasn’t transparent. There’s a lot of frustration. The last four years the mainstream media and the democratic party has done nothing but undermine this president,” said Scott.\nThe aftermath of Capitol Hill’s attack resulted in over 50 arrests, and four deaths. Both Owens and Scott feel they’re parties are working towards a better future.\n“I think that Joe Biden is going to do everything he can to make the country better…but I think he’s got an uphill battle,” said Owens.\n“We’re gonna be working between now and 2022, then working into 2024 to make sure President-elect Biden is a one term president,” said Scott.\nOfficials say the Capitol Hill attack is still under investigation.}}
{{The Prime Minister has confirmed that British nationals are among those caught up in the aftermath of a huge blast in the Lebanese capital Beirut.\nBoris Johnson said the Government is “ready to provide support in any way we can”, and Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said the UK stands in solidarity with Lebanon.\nIn a tweet, Mr Johnson said: “The pictures and videos from Beirut tonight are shocking. All of my thoughts and prayers are with those caught up in this terrible incident.\n“The UK is ready to provide support in any way we can, including to those British nationals affected.”\nThe pictures and videos from Beirut tonight are shocking. All of my thoughts and prayers are with those caught up in this terrible incident. The UK is ready to provide support in any way we can, including to those British nationals affected. — Boris Johnson (@BorisJohnson) August 4, 2020\nVideos of a huge mushroom cloud rising above the Middle Eastern city were shared extensively on social media on Tuesday evening local time.\nThe Lebanese Red Cross has said there are hundreds of casualties and a number of fatalities, with the authorities in the country yet to announce the cause of the explosion.\nAdvertising\nIn a tweet, Mr Raab said: “My thoughts and prayers are with those affected by the devastating explosion in #Beirut today.\n“The UK stands in solidarity with the people of Lebanon and is ready to offer help and support, including to those British nationals impacted.”\nMy thoughts and prayers are with those affected by the devastating explosion in #Beirut today. The UK ?? stands in solidarity with the people of Lebanon ?? and is ready to offer help and support including to those British nationals impacted. — Dominic Raab (@DominicRaab) August 4, 2020\nLabour leader Sir Keir Starmer said in a tweet: “The images of explosions in Beirut are deeply worrying. Our thoughts are with those affected, the emergency services and the people of Lebanon.”\nFormer chancellor Sajid Javid tweeted to say his “thoughts and prayers” were with the people of Lebanon, while London mayor Sadiq Khan said the city stood with Beirut amid “truly horrifying images” emerging from Beirut.\nLiberal Democrat acting leader Sir Ed Davey said in a tweet there were “truly awful scenes and in a city that has already seen so much heartbreak”.}}
{{People shelter in the House gallery as protesters try to break into the House Chamber at the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, in Washington. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)\nWASHINGTON D.C. (NEWS10) – One in five registered voters, and 45% of Republicans, approve of the storming of the U.S. Capitol Building according to a YouGov Poll. Conversely, 96% of Democrats oppose the action, with just 2% claiming to somewhat or strongly approve of what happened.\nOf the people who believe “enough fraud took place at the presidential election to change the outcome,” 56% view the Capitol’s storming positively. Six in 10 of the voters surveyed, including 27% of Republicans asked, saw the events as a direct threat to democracy.\nYouGov suggested the partisan difference could be down to how each group perceives the events. Close to 60% of Republicans are more likely to see the actions as “peaceful” as opposed to “violent” with roughly the same ratio of all voters surveyed believing the opposite.\nA similar split is seen when it comes to appropriating blame for the events. Over half of all Republicans surveyed believe Joe Biden is a great deal or somewhat to blame for the Trump supporters’ actions, while 90% of Democrats believe the blame lies with Donald Trump.\nBelief in the terminology that should be used when referring to those involved also differs between parties. Around three-quarters of registered Democrats surveyed believe terms like “extremists” and “domestic terrorists” should be used when referring to those who stormed the Capitol. Half of Republicans surveyed believe they should be referred to as “protesters”, while 30% think the term “patriots” should be used.\nThe poll was conducted shortly after demonstrators forced their way into the Capitol Building on Wednesday. A total of 1,397 registered voters were asked for their opinions on the events.}}
{{WASHINGTON — Chef José Andrés, who owns World Central Kitchen and other restaurants in the D.C. area, passed out pizza, stew and other food to law enforcement Wednesday night following the violent riots by pro-Trump protesters at the U.S. Capitol.\n“Hi everybody...what can I say...today was a tragic day for America. I’m here in Bethesda, picking up 120 pizzas to bring to downtown DC to the heroic women & men keeping our city safe tonight. I’m meeting my @WCKitchen team which is also bringing our kitchen truck,” Andrés posted on Twitter.\nHi everybody...what can I say...today was a tragic day for America. I’m here in Bethesda, picking up 120 pizzas to bring to downtown DC to the heroic women & men keeping our city safe tonight. I’m meeting my @WCKitchen team which is also bringing our kitchen truck to support... pic.twitter.com/FmoPedVYeu — Please wear a mask! Do it for the World please... (@chefjoseandres) January 7, 2021\nWorld Central Kitchen is a non-profit focused on providing meals in the wake of natural disasters.\nHe said with the curfew, that meant no restaurants or food options were open overnight.\n“In a very strange and complicated night, we can make sure that those young men and women, often forgotten , can be taken care of,” Andrés said on Twitter.\nThe chef said 120 pizzas were not enough, and the World Central Kitchen team “started cooking,” he posted around midnight.\n“Pizzas weren’t enough for everyone...many have been working over 30 hours nonstop. So we turned Jaleo into WCK kitchen cooking 100s of hot stews on this cold night...plus fried egg sandwiches & fruit!” Andres posted.\n1am and @chefjoseandres is frying up eggs for sandwiches. The @WCKitchen team also prepared vermicelli pasta with sausage, potato and vegetables for everyone working through the night here in DC following today’s mob insurrection. pic.twitter.com/xvtcrUbSmt — Nate Mook (@natemook) January 7, 2021\nAt least four people have died in the violence Wednesday evening, one woman was shot and three others had medical emergencies that caused their deaths. Dozens of people, including at least 50 members of law enforcement, were injured in the riots.}}
{{Michelle Obama poured out the contents of her soul regarding the violent insurrection at the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021.\nObama, 56, was startled by the stark disparity between the way that Black Lives Matter protesters were treated in the summer of 2020 and White thugs were handled this week by Capitol police.\n“In just a few hours, though, my heart had fallen harder and faster than I can remember,” she said, referring to the mob of domestic White terrorists who desecrated the Capitol building.\nScores of people on social media pointed out the way Colin Kaepernick peacefully knelt in 2016 as well as how others mostly peacefully protested in 2020 yet were pummeled with rubber bullets, tased, pepper-sprayed, arrested en masse and even shot by real bullets.\n“This summer’s Black Lives Matter protests were an overwhelmingly peaceful movement — our nation’s largest demonstrations ever, bringing together people of every race and class and encouraging millions to re-examine their own assumptions and behavior,” she wrote in a lengthy post on Twitter. “And yet, in city after city, we saw peaceful protesters met with brute force. We saw cracked skulls and mass arrests, law enforcement pepper spraying its way through a peaceful demonstration for a presidential photo op.”\nLike all of you, I’ve been feeling so many emotions since yesterday. I tried to put my thoughts down here: pic.twitter.com/9xzRvrpk7y — Michelle Obama (@MichelleObama) January 7, 2021\nThe former first lady and all-time bestselling author of Becoming lauded the successful Senate campaigns of the Rev. Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff in Georgia.\nHowever, Obama said the country cannot move forward until it comes to terms with what transpired on Jan. 6 as well as what precipitated and who provoked it.\n“I cannot think about moving on or turning the page until we reckon with the reality of what we saw yesterday,” she continued. “True progress will be possible only once we acknowledge that this disconnect exists and take steps to repair it.”\nTake a look at Obama’s full open letter to Americans on the next page.}}
{{MIAMI (AP) — With words and actions, several NBA teams showed dismay Wednesday hours after a violent mob loyal to President Donald Trump was able to storm the U.S. Capitol and in response to a decision by a Wisconsin prosecutor not to charge a police officer who shot a Black man last year.\nIn Miami, the Heat and Boston Celtics released a joint statement saying they were playing “with a heavy heart” in a game where most players and coaches knelt for the national anthem. In Milwaukee, the Bucks and Detroit Pistons both took turnovers on their first possessions — intentionally, with all 10 players on the court kneeling. In Phoenix, the Suns and Toronto Raptors stood in a circle and linked arms for the American and Canadian anthems. Many other tributes took place around the NBA.\nEarlier in the day at the Capitol, a mob delayed Congress from certifying the results of November’s election and paving the way for President-elect Joe Biden to be sworn in later this month.}}
{{A Florida man photographed grinning as he allegedly carried away House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s lectern after a mob of President Trump’s supporters stormed the nation’s Capitol is among the latest people charged in Wednesday’s mayhem that left five people dead.\nAdam Johnson, 36, of Parrish, Fla., was arrested Friday night on a federal warrant and was being held Saturday without bail in Pinellas County, Florida, according to jail records that do not show if he has an attorney.\nJohnson is a married father of five who was quickly identified on social media by residents as the man in a photo smiling as he walked through the Capitol Rotunda allegedly carrying Pelosi’s lectern, the Bradenton Herald reported.\nHe was charged Saturday with one count of knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority, one count of theft of government property and one count of violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\nAdvertisement\nBefore being deleted or taken down, a post by Johnson on social media said he was in Washington, D.C., during Wednesday’s riot and included disparaging comments about the Black Lives Matter movement, according to the Bradenton Herald.\nAn Arizona man seen in photos and video of the mob wearing a costume with a painted face and a fur hat topped by horns was also taken into custody Saturday. Jacob Anthony Chansley, more commonly known as Jake Angeli, had become a staple in his costume at pro-Trump protests across the country.\nHe is charged with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority, and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\nAdvertisement\nChansley is among dozens of people arrested in the wake of the Capitol invasion by a large mob of supporters enraged over Trump’s election loss who forced lawmakers to halt their voting to affirm President-elect Joe Biden’s victory and go into hiding for hours. The rioters took over the House and Senate chambers, smashed windows and waved Trump, American and Confederate flags.\nBy Saturday, prosecutors had filed 17 cases in federal district court and 40 others in the District of Columbia Superior Court for a variety of offenses including assaulting police officers, entering restricted areas of the U.S. Capitol, stealing federal property and threatening lawmakers.\nProsecutors said additional cases remained under seal, dozens of other people were being sought by federal agents and the U.S. attorney in Washington vowed Friday that “all options were on the table” for charges, including possibly sedition.\nOther notable arrests in the Capitol invasion include:\nAdvertisement\n— Richard Barnett, an Arkansas man who was shown in a widely seen photo sitting in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office with his boots on a desk after the storming of the Capitol, was arrested Friday by the FBI. Barnett, 60, turned himself in to FBI agents at the Benton County Sheriff’s Office in Bentonville, Ark. He is jailed in the Washington County Detention Center in nearby Fayetteville, Ark., without bond pending an initial court appearance, FBI Little Rock spokesman Connor Hagan said. No attorney is listed in online jail records for the Gravette, Ark., man.\n— Derrick Evans, a West Virginia state lawmaker who posted videos online showing himself pushing his way inside the Capitol, was arrested Friday by the FBI at his home and charged with entering restricted federal property. In the videos, Evans is seen fist bumping a police officer and then milling around the Rotunda as he shouted, “Our house!” Evans announced his resignation Saturday after facing bipartisan calls for him to step down.}}
{{Trump’s odds of winning have surged in the past 48 hours, according to this data scientist’s model}}
{{Trump supporters try to break through a police barrier, Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, at the Capitol in Washington. As Congress prepares to affirm President-elect Joe Biden's victory, thousands of people have gathered to show their support for President Donald Trump and his claims of election fraud. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) AP\nDozens of people have already been arrested and prosecutors across the U.S. have vowed to bring to justice those who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, sending lawmakers into hiding as they began their work to affirm President-elect Joe Biden’s victory.\nThe top federal prosecutor for the District of Columbia has said “all options are on the table” for charging the rioters, many of whom were egged on by President Donald Trump’s speech hours earlier at a rally over his election loss. Investigators are combing through photos, videos and tips from the public to track down members of the violent mob.\nA Capitol Police officer died after he was hit in the head with a fire extinguisher as rioters descended on the building and many other officers were injured. A woman from California was shot to death by Capitol Police and three other people died after medical emergencies during the chaos.\nSome questions and answers about the investigation into the Capitol breach:\nHOW MANY PEOPLE HAVE BEEN CHARGED?\nThe U.S. attorney’s office for D.C., which handles both local and federal cases in the district, had filed 17 cases in federal court and at least 40 others in the Superior Court by Saturday. The cases in Superior Court mainly have to do with things like curfew violations and gun crimes. Those being tried in federal court, where prosecutors can generally secure longer convictions, are charged with things like violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds, assaulting a federal law enforcement officer and threatening House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.\nDefendants facing federal charges include Richard Barnett, the Arkansas man shown in a widely seen photo sitting in Pelosi’s office with his boots on the desk. Barnett is charged with crimes including theft of public money, property or records.\nAnother man being tried in federal court, Lonnie Coffman of Falkville, Alabama, was arrested after authorities say they found guns and 11 Molotov cocktail explosive devices made out of Mason jars, golf tees and cloth rags in his pickup truck.\nA Florida man identified as the person seen in a photo shared widely on social media carrying the speaker of the House’s lectern also was arrested Friday. Adam Johnson faces charges including theft of government property.\nWHY HAVEN’T MORE PEOPLE BEEN CHARGED YET?\nProsecutors say these charges are just the beginning. Authorities said Friday that said additional cases remained under seal and dozens of other people were being sought by federal agents.\nU.S. attorneys in several states, including Kentucky, Ohio and Oregon, said people could face charges in their home states if they traveled to Washington and took part in the riot. The FBI has released photos of people inside the Capitol, urging the public to help identify them.\nIt takes time to build a case. Capitol Police arrested just more than a dozen people the day of the breach while D.C. police arrested around 70. Many people freely left the Capitol, which means investigators now have to work to identify them and track them down. Authorities have to distinguish between those who traveled to Washington only to participate in the rally before the riot versus those who were part of the insurrection at the Capitol. It can take weeks for investigators to go through photos and video, identify suspects, interview witnesses and write a complaint to secure an arrest.\nThose who’ve been charged so far could also lead investigators to others who joined in the violent siege on Capitol Hill.\nCOULD THEY FACE MORE SERIOUS CHARGES?\nMichael Sherwin, acting U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia, said this week that prosecutors are not keeping anything out of their “ arsenal for potential charges.” As prosecutors gather more evidence, they can add more charges against those they’ve already arrested.\nExperts say federal prosecutors could bring rarely used seditious conspiracy charges against some of the rioters. In the wake of protests across the U.S. over police brutality this summer, then-Deputy Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen told prosecutors in September that they should consider using the sedition charge, which calls for up to 20 years in prison, against violent demonstrators. Rosen, who took over the top Department of Justice job when Attorney General William Barr stepped down last month, said the charge does not require proof of a plot to overthrow the U.S. government and gave the hypothetical example of a group that “has conspired to take a federal courthouse or other federal property by force.”\nCOULD TRUMP BE CHARGED?\nTrump urged the crowd to march on the Capitol, even promising to go with them, though he didn’t in the end. The president told his supporters to “fight” to stop the “steal” of the election, while his personal lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, called for “trial by combat.”\nBut the legal bar for charging the president or any other speakers at the rally with inciting violence is high. Experts say it would be tough to prove that the president intended for violence to happen on Capitol Hill. Trump’s speech likely would not be considered illegally inciting violence because he didn’t specifically call for people to storm the Capitol, experts say.}}
{{The Idiot Insurrection that was attempted yesterday is EXACTLY what Donald Trump wanted to happen. And that’s why it took him hours to finally tell the people storming our nation’s Capitol that they needed to stop. This is his fault, and part of the blame is also shared by Republican members of Congress who pushed the false narrative that the election was somehow stolen from Trump. Ring of Fire’s Farron Cousins discusses this.\nTranscript:\n*This transcript was generated by a third-party transcription software company, so please excuse any typos.\nUh, it’s really hard to figure out where exactly to begin with what took place throughout the day yesterday. But I guess let’s start with the basic, most obvious fact of the insurrection that took place on Capitol Hill. And that is the fact that Donald Trump wanted this to happen. This is the logical conclusion of over two months worth of telling his followers that everything that happened on November 3rd was fake that it was fraudulent, that everything had been stolen from them and that they were going to have to fight to take it back. That’s what they did yesterday, except for the fact that none of it was based in reality, there was not massive voter fraud. There were not instances of vote flipping. You didn’t have a voting machine companies conspiring with Republican politicians to help Joe Biden win, which by the way, is actually something that Sidney Powell has claimed happened.\nSo that’s where they were at. These people were driven to the point of insanity by Donald Trump and his followers. Because what we saw yesterday on the Capitol was nothing short of insanity. These individuals were gas lit into committing sedition, attempting to violently overthrow. The government, I guess, was the goal. Like what were they going to do if they had gone in there and members of Congress had not been evacuated and they suddenly meet face to face, what was the goal there? That’s what I want to know. Like, what were you going to do if you ran face to face to Nancy Pelosi, were you just going to politely say, Hey, would you mind overturning the election? Or was it going to be something much worse? Cause I think we all know what the answer to that would be. The other thing that happened. Diluting these people are looting a federal building and they just got to walk out the doors with a frickin podium.\nI know we’ve all seen seen podium guy posting pictures in offices, in Nancy Pelosi’s office, literally stealing her mail, posing with it on their social media accounts. This is utter insanity. Every single one of these people should be arrested. And this is all Donald Trump’s fault. Oh, and by the way, let’s not forget that executive order that he signed over the summer, which was actually meant to, you know, hurt Antifa people. Uh, if you deface a, a federal monument, uh, you get like 10 years in prison will guess what the U Capitol is. Yeah. Every one of those individuals is now looking at, I believe a minimum of 10 years in prison. And they can think Donald Trump for the overly harsh sentence there. But the fact of the matter is that what these people did was illegal. These were not protestors. I was losing my mind watching corporate media yesterday, refer to these individuals as protestors. That is not what they were. They were not protesting anything. As soon as you storm the Capitol. Yeah. Then it becomes a federal crime of sedition. Like we actually have definitions for that specific kind of event.\nThere’s a whole branch of law devoted to doing exactly what those people did yesterday. And Trump wanted every bit of it to happen. That’s why you stayed silent about it for so long. That’s why it took him forever to finally come out and release his little video statement where he praised them in one breath, but then said, but if you wouldn’t mind, could you just go home for the day? No, he wanted this to happen. And he has been wanting this to happen for much longer, uh, than before even the election took place. He finally, yesterday got everything he wanted and it resulted in a woman, one of his own supporters being shot dead inside the Capitol building. Nobody wanted that to happen. And I understand the woman broke the law. I do not want anyone to die from this though. And yet that was the end result. Now had the people storming, the Capitol been actually Antifa or had they been black lives matter. You would have had a lot more than just one death. And I think we all know that.\nSo all things considering, I guess one is better than what it could have been, but it’s still one to many. Even if it’s somebody we don’t agree with, that’s not something I’m going to condone or celebrate in the least Trump did this. Trump has blood on his hands, Ted Cruz who supported the challenge to the election has blood on his hand. Same thing with Josh Holly, same thing with 140 members of the house, Republican members of the house and 11 other members of the Senate that woman’s death is on your hands. You caused it and not one of them will ever express remorse for it.}}
{{A memorial to George Floyd on the Minneapolis street where he died\nAdvertising Read more\nMinneapolis (AFP)\nThe jury reached a verdict on Tuesday in the trial of the white former police officer charged with murder and manslaughter for the death of African-American George Floyd.\nThe verdict in the trial of Derek Chauvin will be read in a Minneapolis courtroom at 3:30 pm Central Time (2030 GMT), the court said.\nChauvin, 45, is charged in Floyd's May 25, 2020 death, which sparked protests against racial injustice around the world and is being seen as a landmark test of police accountability.\nThe seven-woman five-man jury began their deliberations on Monday evening at the end of a three-week trial.\n© 2021 AFP}}
{{Outgoing First Lady Melania Trump delivered her final address to Americans as Trump’s presidency comes to a close. Melania encouraged peace over violence as Vice President Kamala Harris and President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration quickly approaches.\nMs. Trump dedicated words to law enforcement and members of the military and praised them for their passion for their country. Despite the riots that took place at Capitol Hill on January 6, Melania did not explicitly say anything about it and promoted the narrative of Americans “being their best selves” instead.\n"Be passionate in everything you do but always remember that violence is never the answer and will never be justified," she said.\nMelania also thanked all of the healthcare professionals working the frontlines during the COVID-19 pandemic.\n"Every life is precious and I ask Americans to use caution and common sense to protect the vulnerable,” she continued.\nThe First Lady concluded her speech with a brief reminder regarding American values, in a perceived attempt to defend her time and legacy in the White House.\nThe video was shared shortly after Melania came under fire for refusing to give Jill Biden a tour of the White House, which is an ongoing tradition among first ladies, dating back to over 100 years ago. She made sure to include in her speech that she recognized the importance of her responsibilities, however, Americans argued in the replies under the speech’s official post that there wasn’t much to show for it.\nFor a few weeks, the House and Senate applied pressure for Trump's impeachment. The Trump family is scheduled to move out to the Mar-a-Lago residence in Palm Beach early Wednesday morning. Joe Biden and Kamala Harris will take office on Wednesday as well with inauguration ceremonies starting at 9 a.m.\nCheck out the official soundtrack for Biden's inauguration, featuring music from the late MF Doom as well as Kendrick Lamar, among other rappers, here. Meanwhile, Air BnB went ahead and canceled all of their expected reservations for the inauguration weekend in D.C. due to Capitol Hill riot.\n[via]}}
{{(VIA REUTERS)\nDonald Trump has now turned on the Capitol rioters, a day after telling them he “loved them”, and attempted to call for a moment of “healing and reconciliation."\nAfter encouraging his supporters to march to the Capitol on Wednesday, triggering an insurrection inside the halls of Congress as he sought to overturn the election result, the president turned to social media after being suspended from his accounts.\n“Like all Americans I am outraged by the violence, lawlessness and mayhem,” he said in a brief video message, days before the end of his one-term presidency as lawmakers prepare to remove him from office.\nHe said that the rioters “who infiltrated the Capitol have defiled the seat of American democracy."\n“To those who engaged in the acts of violence and destruction, you do not represent our country,” he said. “To those who broke the law, you will pay.”\nHis remarks are in stark contrast to the messages he gave his supporters as they terrorised the Capitol, as he accused his vice president Mike Pence of disloyalty, falsely insisted that the election was stolen from them, and expressed no urgency to condemn the violence in their wake, instead telling them he loves them and that they are special.\nIn his pre-recorded message from the White House, the president lied that he “immediately” deployed the National Guard and federal law enforcement, leaving lawmakers and staff barricaded in House and Senate chambers and offices.\nHe spun his spurious post-election legal effort to undermine millions of Americans’ votes as an effort to preserve election integrity.\n“We have just been through an intense election, and emotions are high, but now, tempers must be cooled and calm restored,” he said. “My campaign vigorously pursued every legal avenue to contest the election results. My only goal was to ensure the to ensure the integrity of the vote. In so doing I was fighting to defend American democracy.”\nStory continues\nAt least four people have died from the chaos on 6 January, including a woman shot by Capitol police and three people who died from medical emergencies.\nHis message followed widespread calls among lawmakers and officials across the US demanding the vice president invoke the 25th Amendment of the US Constitution to remove the president from office. Congressional leaders – including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and a growing list of Democratic members of Congress – have called for the president’s impeachment, should Mr Pence refuse to act.\nThe president’s brief remarks nearly resembled his concession, telling Americans that “serving as your president has been the honour of my lifetime.”\n“Now Congress has certified the results,” he said. “A new administration will be inaugurated on January 20. My focus now turns to ensuring a smooth, orderly and seamless transition of power.”\nTo his supporters, he said: “I know you are disappointed, but I also want you to know that our incredibly journey is just beginning.”\nRead More\nWhite House resignations as Republicans turn on president\nBiden calls Capitol rioters ‘domestic terrorists’ radicalised by Trump\nWhat happened in DC? A timeline of insurrection}}
{{Beirut, once dubbed the Paris of the Middle East, has experienced its fair share of violence. Yet, even compared to the Lebanese capital’s turbulent history, the explosion that rocked the city on Tuesday was of a different order altogether. According to Lebanese officials, 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate stored at warehouse 12 in Beirut's port exploded under still-unclear circumstances, wreaking devastation reminiscent of the country’s 1975-1990 civil war in adjacent neighborhoods.\nThe explosion will likely exacerbate Lebanon’s slide towards economic collapse, stoking further social tensions and civil unrest in the country.\nDetails about how the explosion occurred remain unclear. Lebanon’s Higher Defense Council formed an investigative committee to examine the incident and release its findings within five days. In the meantime, the ambiguity has fueled unsubstantiated theories about the cause of the explosion.\n>> Beirut blast shockwaves will be felt by Hezbollah for a long time\nThe incident occurred at a particularly politically sensitive time for Lebanon, fueling conspiracy theories that Hezbollah caused the explosion to intimidate its political opponents. The Special Tribunal for Lebanon, tasked with trying four Hezbollah members for the murder of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, is expected to issue its verdict in its central Ayyash et. al. case on August 7. This proximity to the special tribunal's verdict led Lebanese media outlets to quickly report on the safety of Hariri's son, Saad.\nOpen gallery view A view shows the aftermath of an explosion at the port of Lebanon's capital Beirut, on August 5, 2020. Credit: AFP\nDespite Hezbollah’s history of political violence, including Hariri’s murder, it’s highly unlikely it's the culprit this time. The organization couldn’t expect to avoid responsibility for such an action with the spotlight so focused on their reaction to the special tribunal's verdict. Moreover, Hezbollah would have little to gain – France has already reassured the group that the international community won’t act against it over the special tribunal's decision – and much to lose by causing such widescale harm to Beirut’s civilians.\nThe group – either to redirect attention or fuel enmity against its foes – has also been eagerly fueling the rumor mill, with Al-Mayadeen and Al-Manar suggesting American or Israeli responsibility. While Hezbollah’s Al-Ahed newspaper denied a strike caused the explosion, these other outlets hosted guests, like retired Lebanese General Charles Abi Nader – a frequent contributor to Hezbollah’s mouthpieces – hinting Jerusalem or Washington were responsible. “Who else has an interest in bringing Lebanon to its knees now?” Abi Nader asked rhetorically.\nTensions remain high between Israel and Hezbollah since a July 20 strike on Damascus that killed the group’s fighter Ali Kamel Mohsen. The group attributed the attack to Israel. Nonetheless, an Israeli strike can easily be ruled out, despite previous Israeli claims that Hezbollah uses Beirut’s seaport to store and import weapons. For one, the Lebanese Armed Forces didn’t report the presence of any Israeli aircraft in Lebanese airspace on Tuesday. Moreover, while strikes in Syria are acceptable per the existing “rules of the game” between Israel and Hezbollah, any such activity in Lebanon would virtually guarantee the outbreak of a war.\nMeanwhile, Israel’s recent behavior points toward a desire to deescalate with Hezbollah. On July 27, Israel Defense Forces Chief of Staff Aviv Kochavi ordered IDF troops to chase off – but not kill – members of a Hezbollah cell that infiltrated Israel. The IDF has also refrained from releasing its video of that incident, whose occurrence the group denied, to avoid embarrassing Hezbollah or increasing the pressure on it to carry out a follow-up attack. Israel also went to great lengths in recent days to avoid blaming Hezbollah after a cell attempted to infiltrate the Golan Heights on August 3. And while the IDF has conducted its largest troop deployment to the north since the 2006 war with Hezbollah, this was aimed more at deterring the group than inviting an escalation.\nIndeed, it seems that the cause of the explosion was the gross incompetence of Lebanese authorities.\nOpen gallery view Beirut port's silos on August 5, 2020 in the aftermath of a massive explosion in the Lebanese capital. Credit: AFP\nIn 2013, Lebanese officials seized the ammonium nitrate aboard a Moldovan-flagged ship, captained by a Russian national, en route to Africa. Since then, that cargo of 2,750 tons of explosives – by comparison, the amount is 200 times the explosive material used in the 1983 Beirut barracks bombing and 1,375 times the amount used in the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing – remained stored, and improperly secured, within Beirut Seaport’s warehouse 12. One explanation is that dockworkers welding shut a hole in the storage facility set off a chain reaction resulting in the massive explosion. Contradictory reports seem to indicate that the welding operation set off a cache of massive fireworks, resulting in an initial, smaller, explosion, which then set off the ammonium nitrate – accounting for several eyewitnesses reporting hearing two explosions minutes apart.\nAlternatively, it seems the ammonium nitrate was housed in bags right behind the storage facility’s metal doors. These doors heated while being welded shut, first detonating a small number of bags, before setting off the rest and engulfing the whole warehouse.\nAs of the time of this writing, in addition to the vast material damage to homes and property, the number of dead and wounded passed 100 and 4,000, respectively – taxing Lebanon’s already-stretched health sector – and is expected to rise even further. But the impact will extend beyond casualties, as 80 percent of Lebanon’s economy is centered between Beirut and Mount Lebanon.\nThe decimation of Beirut’s port will have a severe impact on Lebanon’s already-rampant food shortage, particularly since the country imports 80 percent of its food, one that won’t be alleviated by diverting shipments to the Tripoli port. Additionally, the explosion rendered Beirut’s granaries unusable. While Lebanese officials state they have enough wheat until they can resume imports, the Higher Defense Council has begun rationing flour. Moreover, it remains unclear how the cash-strapped Lebanese government plans to foot the bill for the material damages, medical expenses and indemnification payments for deaths resulting from the explosion.\nThe Lebanese public is already highly dissatisfied with their country’s political class. Coupling that with their inevitable anger over gross dereliction of duty by Lebanese authorities leading to Tuesday’s explosion, and the fact that promised restitution will likely not materialize, and the Lebanese street is bound to burst. The Lebanese government seems to be anticipating that and, in typical fashion, they’re declaring a thinly-veiled state of martial law in Beirut – in an attempt to squelch their people rather than remedy Lebanon’s deep-seated structural problems which led to the disastrous explosion at Beirut’s seaport.\nDavid Daoud is a research analyst on Lebanon and Hezbollah at United Against Nuclear Iran (UANI). Twitter: @DavidADaoud}}
{{Smoke billows into the sky over the city following a car bomb explosion in Beirut on February 14, 2005. Photo: Reuters}}
{{WASHINGTON (AP) — Congress confirmed Democrat Joe Biden as the presidential election winner early Thursday after a violent mob loyal to President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol in a stunning attempt to overturn America’s presidential election, undercut the nation’s democracy and keep Trump in the White House.\nLawmakers were resolved to complete the Electoral College tally in a display to the country, and the world, of the nation’s enduring commitment to uphold the will of the voters and the peaceful transfer of power. They pushed through the night with tensions high and the nation’s capital on alert.\nBefore dawn Thursday, lawmakers finished their work, confirming Biden won the election.\nVice President Mike Pence, presiding over the joint session, announced the tally, 306-232.\nTrump, who had repeatedly refused to concede the election, said in a statement immediately after the vote that there will be a smooth transition of power on Inauguration Day.\n“Even though I totally disagree with the outcome of the election, and the facts bear me out, nevertheless there will be an orderly transition on January 20th,” Trump said in a statement posted to Twitter by an aide.\nThe Capitol was under siege Wednesday, as the nation’s elected representatives scrambled to crouch under desks and don gas masks while police futilely tried to barricade the building, one of the most jarring scenes ever to unfold in a seat of American political power. A woman was shot and killed inside the Capitol, and Washington’s mayor instituted an evening curfew in an attempt to contain the violence.\nThe rioters were egged on by Trump, who has spent weeks falsely attacking the integrity of the election and had urged his supporters to descend on Washington to protest Congress’ formal approval of Biden’s victory. Some Republican lawmakers were in the midst of raising objections to the results on his behalf when the proceedings were abruptly halted by the mob.\nTogether, the protests and the GOP election objections amounted to an almost unthinkable challenge to American democracy and exposed the depths of the divisions that have coursed through the country during Trump’s four years in office. Though the efforts to block Biden from being sworn in on Jan. 20 were sure to fail, the support Trump has received for his efforts to overturn the election results have badly strained the nation’s democratic guardrails.\nCongress reconvened in the evening, with lawmakers decrying the protests that defaced the Capitol and vowing to finish confirming the Electoral College vote for Biden’s election, even if it took all night.\nPence reopened the Senate and directly addressed the demonstrators: “You did not win.”\nRepublican Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said the “failed insurrection” underscored lawmakers’ duty to finish the count. Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Congress would show the world “what America is made of” with the outcome.\nThe president gave his supporters a boost into action Wednesday morning at a rally outside the White House, where he urged them to march to the Capitol. He spent much of the afternoon in his private dining room off the Oval Office watching scenes of the violence on television. At the urging of his staff, he reluctantly issued a pair of tweets and a taped video telling his supporters it was time to “go home in peace” — yet he still said he backed their cause.\nHours later, Twitter for the first time time locked Trump’s account, demanded that he remove tweets excusing violence and threatened “permanent suspension.”\nA somber President-elect Biden, two weeks away from being inaugurated, said American democracy was “under unprecedented assault, ” a sentiment echoed by many in Congress, including some Republicans. Former President George W. Bush said he watched the events in “disbelief and dismay.”\nThe domed Capitol building has for centuries been the scene of protests and occasional violence. But Wednesday’s events were particularly astounding both because they unfolded at least initially with the implicit blessing of the president and because of the underlying goal of overturning the results of a free and fair presidential election.\nTensions were already running high when lawmakers gathered early Wednesday afternoon for the constitutionally mandated counting of the Electoral College results, in which Biden defeated Trump, 306-232. Despite pleas from McConnell, more than 150 GOP lawmakers planned to support objections to some of the results, though lacking evidence of fraud or wrongdoing in the election.\nTrump spent the lead-up to the proceedings publicly hectoring Pence, who had a largely ceremonial role, to aid the effort to throw out the results. He tweeted, “Do it Mike, this is a time for extreme courage!”\nBut Pence, in a statement shortly before presiding, defied Trump, saying he could not claim “unilateral authority” to reject the electoral votes that make Biden president.\nIn the aftermath of the siege, several Republicans announced they would drop their objections to the election, including Sen. Kelly Loeffler, R-Ga., who lost her bid for reelection Tuesday.\nEarlier, protesters had fought past police and breached the building, shouting and waving Trump and American flags as they marched through the halls, many without masks during the COVID-19 crisis. Lawmakers were told to duck under their seats for cover and put on gas masks after tear gas was used in the Capitol Rotunda. Some House lawmakers tweeted they were sheltering in place in their offices.\nRep. Scott Peters, D-Calif., told reporters he was in the House chamber when rioters began storming it. Security officers “made us all get down, you could see that they were fending off some sort of assault.”\nHe said they had a piece of furniture up against the door. “And they had guns pulled,” Peters said. Glass panes to a House door were shattered.\nThe woman who was killed was part of a crowd that was breaking down the doors to a barricaded room where armed officers stood on the other side, police said. She was shot in the chest by Capitol Police and taken to a hospital where she was pronounced dead. City police said three other people died from medical emergencies during the long protest on and around the Capitol grounds.\nStaff members grabbed boxes of Electoral College votes as the evacuation took place. Otherwise, said Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., the ballots likely would have been destroyed by the protesters.\nThe mob’s storming of Congress prompted outrage, mostly from Democrats but from Republicans as well, as lawmakers accused Trump of fomenting the violence with his relentless falsehoods about election fraud.\n“Count me out,” said Trump ally Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C. “Enough is enough.”\nSeveral suggested that Trump be prosecuted for a crime or even removed under the Constitution’s 25th Amendment, which seemed unlikely two weeks from when his term expires.\n“I think Donald Trump probably should be brought up on treason for something like this,” Rep. Jimmy Gomez, D-Calif., told reporters. “This is how a coup is started. And this is how democracy dies.”\nSen. Ben Sasse, R-Neb., who has at times clashed with Trump, issued a statement saying: “Lies have consequences. This violence was the inevitable and ugly outcome of the President’s addiction to constantly stoking division.”\nDespite Trump’s repeated claims of voter fraud, election officials and his own former attorney general have said there were no problems on a scale that would change the outcome. All the states have certified their results as fair and accurate, by Republican and Democratic officials alike.\nPunctuating their resolve, both the House and Senate soundly rejected an objection to election results from Arizona, which had been raised by Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and Rep. Paul Gosar, R-Ariz., and another from Pennsylvania brought by Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., and Rep. Scott Perry, R-Pa. Still, most House Republicans supported the objections. Other objections to results from Georgia, Michigan, Nevada and Wisconsin fizzled.\nThe Pentagon said about 1,100 District of Columbia National Guard members were being mobilized to help support law enforcement at the Capitol. Dozens of people were arrested.\n___\nAssociated Press writers Jill Colvin, Zeke Miller, Kevin Freking, Alan Fram, Matthew Daly, Ben Fox and Ashraf Khalil in Washington and Bill Barrow in Atlanta contributed to this report.}}
{{WASHINGTON (NewsNation Now) — U.S. employers added a modest 245,000 jobs in November, as companies scaled back their hiring as the viral pandemic accelerates across the country. This marks the fewest added jobs since April and the fifth straight monthly slowdown.\nNovember’s job gain was down from 610,000 in October. Long-term unemployed, those jobless for more than 27 weeks, rose by 385,000 to 3.9 million.\nThe report Friday from the Labor Department said the unemployment rate fell to 6.7 from 6.9% in October. Since April, the jobless rate has decreased from a peak of 14.7%.\nThe report said unemployment rates declined for adult women in November whereas other major worker groups showed little or no change.\nU.S. deaths from the coronavirus topped 3,100 Wednesday, a new daily high, with more than 100,000 Americans hospitalized with the disease, also a record, and new confirmed daily cases topping 200,000. In the past month, many states have imposed new restrictions on businesses, and health officials are urging Americans to avoid all but essential travel.\nMany economists, along with Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell, have called on Congress to approve another stimulus package to carry the economy into the spring, until a vaccine is widely distributed that would allow economic activity to start returning to normal.\nThere are signs that the economic recovery is stumbling. Consumer spending grew in October at the slowest pace in six months. Seated diners at restaurants are declining again, according to data from the reservations website OpenTable. And a Fed report on business conditions found that growth cooled last month in several Midwest regions and in the Fed’s Philadelphia district.\nDavid Berson, chief economist at Nationwide, said he thinks the worst consequences of the pandemic won’t appear until the December jobs report is issued in early January.\nThe November report “will be the last hurrah for the next several months,” Berson said.\nPresident-elect Joe Biden is expected to speak Friday afternoon about the jobs report. NewsNation will carry the news conference live in the player above.}}
{{Something went wrong - please try again later.\nThank you for signing up to The Press and Journal newsletter.\nSign up for our daily newsletter featuring the top stories from The Press and Journal.\nPresident Donald Trump has condemned supporters who rioted at the US Capitol and conceded to President-elect Joe Biden in a new video message.\nBut a short time later, Mr Trump’s education secretary Betsy DeVos became the latest high-ranking official to quit her post over the attack.\nMr Trump spoke out against the violence seen in Washington DC on Wednesday, calling it a “heinous attack” that left him “outraged by the violence, lawlessness and mayhem”.\nHe also said now that Congress has certified the results, the “new administration will be inaugurated on January 20” and his “focus now turns to ensuring a smooth orderly and seamless transition of power”.\nMs DeVos resigned after saying the president’s rhetoric was the “inflection point” for the attack on the Capitol, with transportation secretary Elaine Chao and the US special envoy to Northern Ireland Mick Mulvaney earlier stepping aside from their positions.\nMr Trump did not address his role in inciting the violence in his video. But he did tell his supporters that, while he knows they are “disappointed”, he wanted them to know “our incredible journey is only just beginning”.\nNancy Pelosi has called for the impeachment of Donald Trump (J Scott Applewhite/AP)\nIt came hours after House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Mr Trump should immediately be removed from office or Congress may proceed to impeach him.\nMs Pelosi joined those calling on the Cabinet to invoke the 25th Amendment to force Mr Trump from office.\nMembers of Congress were forced into hiding, offices were ransacked, and the formal congressional count of Electoral College votes was halted for more than six hours during the attack\nPresident-elect Mr Biden called the mob “domestic terrorists” and laid the blame for the violence squarely at Mr Trump’s feet..}}
{{WASHINGTON (Sputnik) - A federal court in the US District of Columbia charged three men over Wednesday’s unrest at the Capitol building, including the widely publicized man horns and fur headdress, a statement from the DC Attorney General’s Office said Saturday.\nAccording to the statement, the man seen carrying away Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s podium and a lawmaker from the state of West Virginia were also charged with violent entry and disorderly conduct.\n“Jacob Anthony Chansley, a.k.a. Jake Angeli, of Arizona, was charged with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority, and with violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds,” the Attorney General’s office said.\nThe other accused was identified as Adam Johnson, 36, from Florida, who faces similar charges in addition to one count of theft of government property.\nDerrick Evans, the third accused, a recently elected member of the West Virginia House of Delegates, live-streamed his entrance into the Capitol while shouting “We’re in, we’re in! Derrick Evans is in the Capitol!”. The lawmaker has apparently submitted his resignation in the wake of the events.\nBREAKING: Derrick Evans has resigned from the House of Delegates in the wake of his alleged involvement in the US Capitol chaos. His official resignation letter, posted below, was clear and concise. 👇🏼 pic.twitter.com/jhP9AyohXs — Rick Lord (@ricklordWCHS) January 9, 2021\nChansley was arrested today while the latter two were taken into custody on Friday, according to the statement.\nChansley confirmed to the FBI that this was him, according to the charging documents. pic.twitter.com/0P2LDV2M2u — Brad Heath (@bradheath) January 9, 2021\nMore than 50 people have already been charged with across the US in connection with the events that unfolded in Washington January 6, the US Department of Justice said a day priot.\nFive people died as a result of the violent entry into the Capitol complex Wednesday when the Senate was in session to certify the result of the presidential election. President Donald Trump, widely derided as having fomented the unrest, has been blocked on major social media platforms, while Democratic lawmakers have begun a motion to remove him from office.}}
{{×\nremaining of\nThank you for reading! On your next view you will be asked to log in to your subscriber account or create an account and subscribepurchase a subscription to continue reading.}}
{{MORNING BRIEFING\nWhat you need to know straight to your inbox,\n7am every weekday morning.}}
{{BORIS Johnson has drafted in the Royal Navy to help Beirut after a massive chemical blast razed a huge part of the city to the ground.\nBritain pledged an initial £5 million in humanitarian aid to the Mediterranean nation as well as crack teams of search and rescue experts and medics to the flattened Lebanese capital.\n7 Boris Johnson drafted in the Royal Navy to help rebuild Beirut Credit: AFP\n7 The mammoth explosion erupted in the port Credit: Universal News & Sport (Europe)\n7 HMS Enterprise is being diverted to help assess the damage in Beirut’s port Credit: AFP - Getty\nA nearby Royal Navy survey ship HMS Enterprise is being diverted to help assess the damage in Beirut’s port, in a bid to help the stricken nation back on its feet as soon as possible.\nForeign Secretary Dominic Raab said: “We are going to stand by the Lebanese people in their time of need.\n"We are ready and now poised to deliver medical experts, humanitarian aid of £5 million, search-and-rescue experts.\n"We have also got a Royal Navy survey ship in the area which can be deployed to help assess the damage to the port.\n"All of that is ready to go, obviously we will make sure we have got exactly what is tailored towards the Lebanese needs."\nBritain has also offered to send specialist dog teams to help pull survivors from the rubble in the city.\nAnd the Army is also offering to help the Lebanese Armed Forces,with strategic air transport assistance, engineering and communications support.\nBritain will also send Emergency Medical Teams - which is made up of specialist medical and surgical teams including NHS experts.\nBEIRUT DEVASTATED\nInternational Development Secretary Anne-Marie Trevelyan said: “We have all been shocked by the scenes of devastation and suffering in Beirut. My heart goes out to all those who have been affected by this tragedy and who have lost loved ones.\n“The UK stands ready to support the people of Lebanon in their time of need and has offered to send medics and rescue workers to treat those who have been injured.”\nThe Queen sent a message of condolence to Lebanon as the death toll increased to 135 – with thousands injured in Tuesday's blast.\n7 Dominic Raab said 'we are going to stand by the Lebanese people in their time of need' Credit: Getty Images - Getty\n7\nThe Queen said: "Prince Philip and I were deeply saddened by news of the explosion at the Port in Beirut yesterday.\n"Our thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of those who have been injured or lost their lives, and all those whose homes and livelihoods have been affected."\nMr Raab said the details of Britons caught up in the Beirut blast were still being established.\nHe said: "We are not sure on the precise figures in relation to UK nationals there, we will obviously want to bottom out that in the days ahead.\n"Obviously we have a consular team there which are monitoring that very carefully."\n7 The explosion completely flattened parts of Beirut Credit: EPA\n7 A woman caught up in the explosion is tended to by doctors on the side of the road Credit: PA:Press Association\nThe Foreign Secretary said he spoke to the Lebanese prime minister Hassan Diab and was promised a "full, thorough and rigorous."\nMr Raab said: "He has been very clear with me that there will be a full, thorough and rigorous investigation to get to the truth - I think the people of the Lebanon deserve no less - and that there will be full accountability, subject of course to the results and the outcome of that investigation."\nMeanwhile Chair of the Defence Select Committee Tobias Ellwood called on hospital ship RFA Argus to be diverted from the Caribbean to help provide extra medical aid.\nAnd former Tory Chancellor Sajid Javid urged people to donate to a Red Cross appeal.\nHe said: “Lebanon is in - an economic crisis - a banking crisis - a political crisis - a corruption crisis - a refugee crisis - a coronavirus crisis - the grip of a terror organisation …and that was BEFORE the #BeirutExplosion. Please help if you can and donate now. “\nThe British Red Cross (BRC) has launched an emergency appeal in response to the devastating explosion in the Lebanese capital Beirut yesterday.\nThe funds raised by the BRC appeal will help the frontline responders.\nSo far, the Lebanese Red Cross has sent all of its emergency medical support to the scene, including more than 75 ambulances and over 375 emergency medical responders from across Lebanon.\nDOCTOR OVERWHELMED\nAlexander Matheou, executive director of international at the British Red Cross, said: "The situation in Beirut is very serious.\n"Hospitals have been heavily damaged. Doctors are overwhelmed with the number of people needing medical help and are not able to treat everyone.\n"Some people have had to be treated in the streets and the number of fatalities is likely to rise.\n"If you can, please donate to our Beirut Emergency Appeal to save lives right now and help people recover."\nMost read in News GUNNED DOWN Kids' author shot in 'assassination attempt' by biker who died fleeing cops AMBUSH ATTACK Moment stranger stalks mom with stroller before stabbing her 7 times in face 'LUCKY TO ESCAPE' Princess Diana's bridesmaid 'was guest on Epstein's 'pedo island' MEG-A MOVE Meg's team leaked High Court privacy row to Finding Freedom author, docs claim DOUBLE TRAGEDY Man & woman found dead in car near beauty spot in suspected suicide pact Warning HIT AND SCUM Horrific moment woman and dog are mown down before driver runs off\nThe Lebanese government has put an unspecified number of Beirut port officials under house arrest pending an investigation into how 2,750 tonnes of explosive ammonium nitrate came to be stored at the port for years.\nMr Raab said the Lebanese prime minister told him there would be a “full, thorough and rigorous investigation to get to the truth - I think the people of the Lebanon deserve no less - and that there will be full accountability”.\nThe Government has said all embassy staff based in Beirut are accounted for, but some have suffered “non-life-threatening injuries”.\nDrone footage shows devastation in Beirut after massive explosion which killed at least 100 people\nGOT a story? RING The Sun on 0207 782 4104 or WHATSAPP on 07423720250 or EMAIL exclusive@the-sun.co.uk}}
{{To the editor: The actions of the “red-blooded Americans” at the U.S. Capitol Wednesday stirred feelings deep in my soul that harkened back to a time of my ancestors. (“Four dead in D.C. riots as mob of Trump supporters stormed Capitol,” Jan. 7)\nAs I watched the insurrectionists break down doors, rush past what little resistance law enforcement provided and storm the floors of Congress, I visualized lynch mobs snatching Black men and women from wherever they cowered, powerless to prevent the deadly fate that was near.\nIf the Capitol mob had been able to get their hands on one of their perceived enemies and drag them out to the angry throngs, who knows what their fate might have been.\nSomehow, I’m not shocked. Maybe my DNA has conditioned me to scenes like this. Just maybe, a white person reading this will now have an idea of the real pain that many of their perceived enemies have felt for centuries.\nAdvertisement\nClose your eyes and try.\nRod Lawrence, Los Angeles\n..\nTo the editor: Let there be no doubt about the riot in Washington inspired by President Trump. If these had been Black protestors storming the Capitol, they would have been shot on sight.\nAdvertisement\nThe time for two systems of justice is over. I can only pray the rioters are prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law and their incompetent leader is held responsible for his part in staining our democracy.\nValerie Okorocha, Pasadena\n..\nTo the editor: A public investigation is necessary into the federal and local police response to the attack on the U.S. Capitol.\nAdvertisement\nFar-right mobs smashed windows and doors, stormed the Capitol under a traitorous, terrorist Confederate flag, and broke into the Senate chamber. The images of police officers calmly standing by as crowds enter — including one of an officer posing for a selfie with an insurrectionist — cannot go without investigation and penalty.\nThis is in stark contrast to the law enforcement reaction to Black Lives Matter, social justice and anti-war protesters, who have been beaten, shot, tear gassed and improperly arrested by police.\nGiving a pass to white supremacists who storm the nation’s Capitol cannot stand. Law enforcement must be held accountable.\nBob Lentz, Sylmar}}
{{When hackers exploited a bug in Parler to download all of the right-wing social media platform's contents last week, they were surprised to find that many of the pictures and videos contained geolocation metadata revealing exactly how many of the site's users had taken part in the invasion of the US Capitol building just days before. But the videos uploaded to Parler also contain an equally sensitive bounty of data sitting in plain sight: thousands of images of unmasked faces, many of whom participated in the Capitol riot. Now one website has done the work of cataloging and publishing every one of those faces in a single, easy-to-browse lineup.\nLate last week, a website called Faces of the Riot appeared online, showing nothing but a vast grid of more than 6,000 images of faces, each one tagged only with a string of characters associated with the Parler video in which it appeared. The site's creator tells WIRED that he used simple open source machine learning and facial recognition software to detect, extract, and deduplicate every face from the 827 videos that were posted to Parler from inside and outside the Capitol building on January 6, the day when radicalized Trump supporters stormed the building in a riot that resulted in five people's deaths. The creator of Faces of the Riot says his goal is to allow anyone to easily sort through the faces pulled from those videos to identify someone they may know or recognize who took part in the mob, or even to reference the collected faces against FBI wanted posters and send a tip to law enforcement if they spot someone.\n"Everybody who is participating in this violence, what really amounts to an insurrection, should be held accountable," says the site's creator, who asked for anonymity to avoid retaliation. "It's entirely possible that a lot of people who were on this website now will face real-life consequences for their actions."\nAside from the clear privacy concerns it raises, Faces of the Riot's indiscriminate posting of faces doesn't distinguish between lawbreakers—who trampled barriers, broke into the Capitol building, and trespassed in legislative chambers—and people who merely attended the protests outside. An upgrade to the site today adds hyperlinks from faces to the video source, so that visitors can click on any face and see what the person was filmed doing on Parler. The Faces of the Riot creator, who says he's a college student in the "greater DC area," intends that added feature to help contextualize every face's inclusion on the site and differentiate between bystanders, peaceful protesters, and violent insurrectionists.\nHe concedes that he and a cocreator are still working to scrub "non-rioter" faces, including those of police and press who were present. A message at the top of the site also warns against vigilante investigations, instead suggesting users report those they recognize to the FBI, with a link to an FBI tip page. "If you go on the website and you see someone you know, you might learn something about a relative," he says. "Or you might be like, oh, I know this person, and then further that information to the authorities."\n“Everybody who is participating in this violence, what really amounts to an insurrection, should be held accountable.” Faces of the Riot Creator\nDespite its disclaimers and limitations, Faces of the Riot represents the serious privacy dangers of pervasive facial recognition technology, says Evan Greer, the campaign director for digital civil liberties nonprofit Fight for the Future. "Whether it's used by an individual or by the government, this technology has profound implications for human rights and freedom of expression," says Greer, whose organization has fought for a legislative ban on facial recognition technologies. "I think it would be an enormous mistake if we come out of this moment by glorifying or lionizing a technology that, broadly speaking, disproportionately harms communities of color, low-income communities, immigrant communities, Muslim communities, activists ... the very same people that the faces on this website stormed the Capitol for the purpose of silencing and disenfranchising."}}
{{A verdict has been reached in the high-profile trial of former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin, who is accused of murder and manslaughter in the death of George Floyd.\nAfter hearing closing arguments Monday, the 12-member jury – comprising six white people and six people who are Black or multiracial -- met to discuss the process of working toward a verdict, which is expected to be announced shortly.\nUS Jury Deliberates in Trial of Officer Charged with Killing George Floyd After hearing closing arguments Monday, group of 12 jurors met for four hours as they began process of working toward verdict\nDuring Monday’s final arguments, a prosecutor accused Chauvin, who is white, of killing Floyd, an African American, by kneeling on his neck for more than nine minutes. A defense attorney, Eric Nelson, contended that Floyd died partly from drug use and that Chauvin was following his police training in the way he arrested Floyd last May on the curb of a street in Minneapolis.\nProsecutor Steve Schleicher summed up the case against Chauvin, who held down the handcuffed Floyd as Floyd lay prone on a city street and gasped — 27 times, according to videos of his arrest — that he could not breathe.\n“He was trapped…a knee to his neck,” Schleicher said, with Chauvin’s weight on him for nine minutes and 29 seconds.\n“George Floyd was not a threat to anyone,” Schleicher said. “All that was required was some compassion, and he got none.”\n“No crime was committed if it was an authorized use of force,” Nelson argued.\n“The state has not proved its case beyond a reasonable doubt,” the legal standard for a conviction, the defense attorney concluded as he asked the jurors to acquit Chauvin of murder and manslaughter charges.\nFloyd was suspected of trying to pass a counterfeit $20 bill at a nearby convenience store.\nThe routine police investigation of a minor case last May 25 and Floyd’s subsequent death have resulted in one of the most consequential U.S. criminal trials in years.\nChauvin pleaded not guilty to the charges against him. If convicted, he faces up to 40 years in prison.\nLast week, Chauvin invoked his constitutional right against self-incrimination and did not take the witness stand. Under U.S. law, the prosecution must prove the allegations against defendants, and defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.\nTrial judge Peter Cahill told the jury not to draw any inference on Chauvin’s innocence or guilt from his declining to testify.\nAfter dismissing the jury Monday, Cahill criticized Congresswoman Maxine Waters, who is Black and a member of Congress since 1991, for recent remarks regarding the trial. Waters told protesters in Minnesota to “stay on the street” and to become “more active” and “more confrontational” if Chauvin is found not guilty.\n“I wish elected officials would stop talking about this case, especially in a manner that’s disrespectful to the rule of law and to the judicial branch and our function,” Cahill said.\nDespite Cahill’s plea, U.S. President Joe Biden Tuesday described the evidence against Chauvin as overwhelming.\nPresident Biden, during a meeting with members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus in the Oval Office, said that he is ‘praying the verdict is the right verdict’ in the trial of former Minneapolis Police Officer Dereck Chauvin.\n“I’m praying the verdict is the right verdict,” Biden said during an Oval Office meeting with Latino lawmakers. “I think it’s overwhelming in my view. I wouldn’t say that unless the jury was sequestered now.”\nAs the case nears its end, authorities in Minneapolis are bracing for possible street protests after the verdict. Many stores are boarded up to prevent a recurrence of the damage and looting that took place after Floyd’s death almost a year ago.\n“We cannot allow civil unrest to descend into chaos. We must protect life and property,” Minnesota Governor Tim Walz said Monday. “But we also must understand very clearly, if we don’t listen to those communities in pain and those people on the streets, many of whom were arrested for speaking a fundamental truth that we must change, or we will be right back here again.”\nProtests, some of them violent, broke out in many cities in the United States and throughout the world after Floyd’s death. The Black Lives Matter movement was at the forefront of the demonstrations, but thousands of people who had no previous connection to the Black-led protests joined in to condemn Chauvin’s actions, and more broadly, police treatment of minorities.\nThe same issues raised by Floyd’s death came to the forefront in the community again when a now-resigned police officer in a Minneapolis suburb fatally shot a 20-year-old African American man during a traffic stop on April 11.}}
{{To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.\nBy clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.\nYou can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.}}
{{U.S. Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao said Thursday she would resign, citing the intrusion of the U.S. Capitol by violent supporters of U.S. President Donald Trump.\nChao, the wife of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, is the first Cabinet secretary to announce her departure after the events. Many lower-level administration officials have announced they would resign, including several White House aides, reports Reuters.\nChao said her resignation would take effect Monday, just nine days before Trump is set to leave office. She said the Capitol attack “has deeply troubled me in a way that I simply cannot set aside.”\nChao, a former Labor secretary and deputy transportation secretary under prior Republican presidents, has led the department for four years and said “we will help my announced successor Mayor Pete Buttigieg, with taking on the responsibility of running this wonderful department.”\nIn a December 31 Reuters interview, Chao had said she planned to remain on the job through January 20 when Democratic President-elect Joe Biden is due to take office.\nOne government official said there may be additional cabinet resignations before Monday.\nLike this: Like Loading...}}
{{EMBED >More News Videos Opening statements in former officer's trial in George Floyd's death: WATCH (1 of 7) Officer Derek Chauvin "had to know" he was squeezing the life out of George Floyd as the Black man cried out over and over that he couldn't breathe and finally fell silent, a prosecutor told jurors Monday as closing arguments began at Chauvin's murder trial.\nEMBED >More News Videos Judge Peter Cahill explains the charges against ex-officer Derek Chauvin in the death of George Floyd.\nEMBED >More News Videos Prosecutors will argue that the officer recklessly squeezed the life from Floyd by kneeling on his neck for more than 9 minutes. While the defense will say Floyd put himself at risk by swallowing drugs and resisting arrest.\nEMBED >More News Videos Derek Chauvin trial day 9 recap: A medical expert says George Floyd died from a lack of oxygen that damaged his brain and caused his heart to stop.\nEMBED >More News Videos Derek Chauvin trial day 8: A use-of-force expert says Derek Chauvin never took his knee off George Floyd's neck, and the defense tried to show that Floyd yelled "I ate too many drugs" as officers pinned him to the ground.\nEMBED >More News Videos Derek Chauvin informs the judge that he would not testify at the murder trial in George Floyd's death.\nEMBED >More News Videos Reena Roy reports on the latest developments in the Derek Chauvin trial.\nMINNEAPOLIS -- The jury reached a verdict Tuesday at the murder trial of former Officer Derek Chauvin in the death of George Floyd, the Black man who was pinned to the pavement with a knee on his neck in a case that set off a furious reexamination of racism and policing in the U.S.The verdict, arrived at after about 10 hours of deliberations over two days, was to be read late in the afternoon in a city on edge against the possibility of more unrest like that that erupted last spring.The courthouse was ringed with concrete barriers and razor wire, and thousands of National Guardsmen and other law enforcement officers were brought in ahead of the verdict.Floyd died last May after Chauvin, a 45-year-old now-fired white officer, pinned his knee on the 46-year-old Black man's neck for about 9 1/2 minutes.The jury, made up of six white people and six Black or multiracial people, weighed charges of second-degree unintentional murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter, with convictions on some, none or all of the charges possible. The most serious charge carries up to 40 years in prison.Earlier in the day Tuesday, President Joe Biden weighed in by saying he believes the case is "overwhelming." Other politicians and ordinary citizens also offered their opinion."It shouldn't be really even questioned whether there will be an acquittal or a verdict that doesn't meet the scale of the crime that was committed," Rep. Ilhan Omar, a Democrat, said in Brooklyn Center, a suburb just outside Minneapolis. The congresswoman said the Chauvin case looks open-and-shut.Guilty verdicts could mark a turning point in the fight for racial equality, she said."We are holding on to one another for support. Hopefully this verdict will come soon and the community will start the process of healing," Omar said.In Washington, the president said that he had spoken to Floyd's family on Monday and "can only imagine the pressure and anxiety they're feeling.""They're a good family and they're calling for peace and tranquility no matter what that verdict is," Biden said. "I'm praying the verdict is the right verdict. I think it's overwhelming, in my view. I wouldn't say that unless the jury was sequestered now."The president has repeatedly denounced Floyd's death but previously stopped short of commenting on the trial itself.Ahead of a verdict, some stores were boarded up in Minneapolis, the courthouse was ringed with concrete barriers and razor wire, and National Guard troops were on patrol. Last spring, Floyd's death set off protests along with vandalism and arson in Minneapolis.The city has also been on edge in recent days over the deadly police shooting of a 20-year-old Black man, Daunte Wright, in Brooklyn Center on April 11.___Webber reported from Fenton, Michigan. Associated Press video journalist Angie Wang in Atlanta and Associated Press writers Doug Glass, in Minneapolis, Mohamed Ibrahim in Brooklyn Center, Minnesota, and Todd Richmond in Madison, Wisconsin, contributed.}}
{{WASHINGTON -- In extraordinarily sharp remarks Friday, President-elect Joe Biden compared Sen. Ted Cruz to Hitler’s propaganda master in the way he peddled Donald Trump’s “big lie” about election fraud, though he stopped short of blaming him for the riot by a pro-Trump at the Capitol as many Texas Democrats have done.\nHe called Cruz’s efforts “shameful.”\nThe Texas Republican led an effort in the Senate to block congressional certification of Biden’s victory in the Electoral College, insisting that widespread doubts about the legitimacy of the election demanded an emergency investigation to allay public concerns. The riot, which left one Capitol Police officer and four others dead, delayed that review on Wednesday.\nBiden noted that Cruz, like Trump, had spent weeks questioning the legality and accuracy of balloting in a half-dozen states, despite an utter lack of evidence.\nAsked if Cruz should resign, or Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri, who also led the objections that delayed certification, Biden said: “They should be just flat beaten the next time they run.”\n“The American public has a real good clear look at who they are. They’re part of the big lie. The big lie,” he told reporters in Wilmington, Del.\nIt was at that point that he invoked Joseph Goebbels, the Nazi propagandist, recalling his exaggeration of civilian deaths in the firebombing of Dresden, repeated by newspapers around the world. Goebbels maintained that the bigger the lie, and the more it was repeated, the more likely it was to be believed.\n“I was pleased to hear some of the more prominent Republicans say to me that the Ted Cruzes of the world are as responsible in terms of people believing the lies, as -- not as responsible but similarly responsible -- like Trump. But they didn’t say go to the Capitol, I’ll be with you, follow [as Trump did]. That’s a different story,” Biden said.\nConservative commentator George Will, among others, accused him of sedition and said he will bear a “scarlet S” the rest of his public career.\nLeading Texas Democrats such as Julian Castro and his brother Rep. Joaquin Castro of San Antonio demanded Cruz resign, as did Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York. Cruz chalked up such talk to political opportunism by adversaries, making clear he will not follow their advice.\nSome critics accused Cruz of inciting insurrection in the wake of the deadly riot at the Capitol.\n“It is your self-serving attempt at sedition that has helped to inspire these terrorists and their attempted coup,” alleged Beto O’Rourke, the El Paso Democrat who came close to ousting Cruz in 2018.\nCruz denounced the attack at the Capitol in real time as a “despicable act of terrorism,” and has repeatedly called for prosecution of those involved.\nHe has defended his demand for an inquiry into alleged irregularities in the election, saying Thursday that even in hindsight – knowing about the riot –he would still have pursued a delay and object to Congress affirming Biden’s victory. Doing otherwise, he said, would amount to shirking his duty, and he expressed disappointment that his argument did not gain enough traction among colleagues.\n“Yes. Absolutely,” he told KXAS-TV (Ch. 5). “I would object and urge that we should follow the law and follow the Constitution.”\nAt the same time, with Trump’s presidency ending, his power waning and calls for impeachment or removal through a 25th Amendment process by which the vice president and cabinet could declare him unfit, Cruz has begun distancing himself in a way he avoided doing for over four years.\n“I do think the President’s rhetoric and his language has been over the line,” Cruz said. “I think it was irresponsible. I think it was reckless.... He plainly bears some responsibility.”}}
{{A second Iowan arrested after the deadly riot at the U.S. Capitol was scheduled to make his initial appearance in court Tuesday afternoon.\nLeo Christopher Kelly, 35, of Cedar Rapids was arrested Monday by FBI agents in Cedar Rapids. He was charged with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority, and with violent entry with intent to disrupt the orderly conduct of official business and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\nHis initial appearance was scheduled for 3 p.m. Tuesday at the Cedar Rapids Federal Courthouse. No attorney was listed for Kelly as of noon Tuesday.\nThe Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., left five people dead, including a police officer, and sent lawmakers and Vice President Mike Pence fleeing to shelter.\nDuring an interview with LifeSiteNews.com, a media outlet devoted to anti-abortion, faith and morality-focused coverage, Kelly said he traveled from Cedar Rapids to Washington, D.C., to show support for President Donald Trump. He told the site he was in the Capitol for 30 to 60 minutes, and prayed on the Senate floor.\nDuring the interview, he said he felt he and some other rioters were, "As respectful as you can be when you're kind of really pushing in on somebody's space like that."\n“We’ve been betrayed by Congress," he said. "We’ve been betrayed by the judicial branch. We’ve been betrayed by our local governments, our mayors.”\nNear the end of the interview, he said, “Perhaps I did something wrong," and “God will judge us for what we did.”\nKelly also told the Cedar Rapids Gazette that he was not armed during, nor did he cause any damage.\nThe interview with LifeSiteNews.com includes 17 seconds of footage from the Senate floor. In the footage, rioters are seen on the Senate dais. Open desks and some items in disarray were also seen in the footage. Kelly likely shot the footage with his phone, said federal charging documents.\nOn Thursday, Kelly told a U.S. Marshal that he would turn himself in if an arrest warrant was issued for him, according to the charging documents.\nKelly does not have a long criminal history in Iowa. His sole criminal conviction was when he pleaded guilty in June 2010 to operating while intoxicated in Linn County, according to court records.\nKelly is listed as the vice president of Strategic Partnerships for US IoT Network, a Cedar Rapids Internet of Things wireless technology company. The company did not respond to requests for comment about Kelly's employment status.\nHe was the second Iowan arrested for participating in the riot at the Capitol. Doug Jensen, 41, of Des Moines, was arrested by the FBI Jan. 9 and is also accused of participating in the invasion. Jensen faces six federal charges.\nMore:\nThe FBI has made dozens of arrests of people believed to be responsible for the attack. Authorities say arrests ultimately could reach the hundreds.\nPhilip Joens covers breaking news for The Des Moines Register. He can be reached at 515-443-3347 at pjoens@registermedia.com or on Twitter @Philip_Joens.}}
{{Close Get email notifications on {{subject}} daily!\nYour notification has been saved.\nThere was a problem saving your notification.\n{{description}}\nEmail notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.}}
{{A West Virginia lawmaker recorded video of himself and fellow supporters of President Donald Trump storming the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, triggering calls for his resignation.\nIn the video by Republican Del. Derrick Evans, later deleted from his social media page, he is shown wearing a helmet and clamoring at the door to breach in after Congress met for an expected vote to affirm Democrat Joe Biden’s election victory.\nTHE LATEST: Over 60 people arrested, multiple officers injured and 4 deaths reported amid pro-Trump protests in DC\n"We’re in! Keep it moving, baby!" he said in a packed doorway amid Trump followers holding flags and complaining of being pepper sprayed. Once inside, Evans could be seen on video milling around the Capitol Rotunda, where historical paintings depict the republic’s founding, and yelled "no vandalizing."\nLawmakers from other states also traveled to the nation’s capital to protest the results of the Electoral College on Wednesday. It’s unclear if any other elected official forced their way into the U.S. Capitol. Pennsylvania state Sen. Doug Mastriano helped organize a bus ride to protest in Washington, D.C., and said he left the Capitol area after the eruption of violence, which he called "unacceptable." A Democratic colleague called for his resignation nonetheless.\nRepublican Alaska state Rep. David Eastman said he went to Washington, D.C., to see Trump speak but told the Anchorage Daily News that the storming of the building was "pretty terrible."\nTennessee state Rep. Terri Lynn Weaver on Wednesday night said it had been an "epic and historic day." She told The Tennessean that she was "in the thick of it" but hadn’t seen any violence.\nAdvertisement\nHundreds of people gathered in state capitals nationwide to oppose Biden’s win in mostly peaceful gatherings. But New Mexico police evacuated the statehouse building as a precaution and scuffles broke out in Ohio and California. Some demonstrators carried guns in a handful of states.\nIn West Virginia, Democratic party leaders said Evans should resign and "be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law." About 10,000 people have signed an online petition calling for him to be removed from office, a month after being sworn into a first term.\nDownload the FOX 5 DC News App for Local Breaking News and Weather\nThe speaker of the state House of Delegates, Roger Hanshaw, said Evans will need to "answer to his constituents and colleagues regarding his involvement in what has occurred today."\nA House spokesman, Jared Hunt, told The Associated Press that Hanshaw is still "gathering as much information possible about what has happened, and will evaluate all the potential consequences once the totality of the situation is understood." Hanshaw had said in his statement he hadn’t spoken to Evans yet.\n"While free speech and peaceful protests are a core value of American society, storming government buildings and participating in a violent intentional disruption of one of our nation’s most fundamental political institutions is a crime that should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law," Hanshaw said.\nDemocratic House Minority Leader Doug Skaff called on Hanshaw to suspend Evans’ access to the statehouse and launch an investigation. "Delegate Derrick Evans not only participated in this violent, intentional disruption of government; he helped lead a group that he organized to travel to Washington, D.C., to cause this chaos," he said in a statement.\nEvans was elected in November to represent Wayne County. On Tuesday evening he posted a photo on Facebook of a busload of maskless people, writing that two full buses from West Virginia, Kentucky and Ohio were heading to D.C.\nOn Wednesday night he said in a statement on social media that he was returning to West Virginia and "was simply there as an independent member of the media to film history." Video shows him chanting Trump’s name before entering the Capitol building. He did not respond to an email seeking comment.\nEvans was among thousands of Trump supporters, their anger over baseless claims of fraud in the presidential race leading a mob to occupy the Capitol building, interrupting the expected vote to certify Biden’s victory.\nPHOTOS: Pro-Trump rioters storm Capitol in DC\nDemocratic Sen. Joe Manchin called it an insurrection. "These thugs cannot and will not run us off," he said in a statement.\nRepublican Sen. Shelley Moore Capito also lamented the protest. "This is the United States of America," she said in a statement. "We don’t do this. It’s not who we are."\nIn a video posted on Twitter during the Capitol’s occupation, Trump urged his "very special" supporters to go home, but also repeated baseless claims the election was stolen.}}
{{More than seven in 10 Republicans said they are opposed to the pro-Trump mob's storming of the United States Capitol on Wednesday though they also believe that the president should remain in office until his term ends in 11 days.\nThe Reuters/Ipsos survey asked 1,005 respondents their thoughts about Wednesday’s violent sacking of the Capitol building by a mob that was ginned up by Trump.\nOf the 363 Republicans surveyed, 58 per cent said they strongly opposed the riot while another 13 per cent were ‘somewhat’ opposed.\nAnother 13 per cent ‘somewhat supported’ the riot while 9 per cent ‘strongly’ backed it, according to the survey.\nMore than seven in 10 Republicans said they are opposed to the pro-Trump mob's storming of the United States Capitol on Wednesday\nAmong Democrats, the reaction was more lopsided, with 87 per cent saying they were ‘strongly’ opposed while another 5 per cent saying they were ‘somewhat’ opposed.\nJust 2 per cent was strongly supportive while another 3 per cent was ‘somewhat’ supportive.\nIndependent voters appeared to side with the Democrats as 71 per cent said they were strongly opposed while 9 per cent said they were somewhat opposed.\nMeanwhile, a majority of Americans - 57 per cent - want President Donald Trump to be immediately removed from office.\nMost of them were Democrats, however, with Republicans apparently much more supportive of Trump serving out the final days of his term, which ends on January 20.\nThe national public opinion survey was conducted on Thursday and Friday.\nNearly 70 per cent of Americans surveyed also said they disapprove of Trump's actions in the run-up to Wednesday's assault.\nAt a rally earlier in the day, Trump had exhorted thousands of his followers to march to the Capitol.\nThe chaos on Capitol Hill, in which a police officer and four others died, has been widely condemned by both Democrats and Republicans.\nTrump exhorted thousands of supporters to march on the Capitol as Congress met to certify Biden's November 3 election victory. The resulting assault, viewed with shock around the world, left a police officer and four others dead in its wake, as rioters breached the Capitol and forced lawmakers into hiding for their own safety\nDemocrats in the House of Representatives plan to introduce misconduct charges on Monday that could lead to a second impeachment of Trump, two sources familiar with the matter said.\n'If the President does not leave office imminently and willingly, the Congress will proceed with our action,' House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a statement.\nThe public's reaction is divided by political party, as it has been on almost every major issue in the Trump era.\nWhile almost everyone condemned the violent confrontation, calls for Trump's ouster came mostly from Democrats.\nAltogether, the majority of Americans who said they want Trump to leave office before his term ends includes about nine out of every ten Democrats polled but just two in ten Republicans.\nSome 30 per cent said the president should be removed using provisions in the 25th Amendment of the US Constitution, which allows the vice president and Cabinet to remove the president if he is unable to discharge his official duties.\nAnother 14 per cent said Congress should impeach and remove Trump from office, and 13 per cent said Trump should simply resign.\nTrump, who lost the November 3 election by about seven million votes, called on his supporters on Wednesday to march on Congress, telling them at a rally that 'you will never take back our country with weakness.'\nA small minority of the American public - 12 per cent - said they supported the actions of those people who took part in the riot.\nSeventy-nine percent of adults, including two-thirds of Republicans and Trump voters, described the participants as either 'criminals' or 'fools.'\nNine percent saw them as 'concerned citizens' and 5 per cent called them 'patriots.'\nThe Reuters/Ipsos poll was conducted online, in English, throughout the United States.\nIt gathered responses from 1,005 American adults, including 339 who said they voted for Trump.\nThe results have a credibility interval, a measure of precision, of 4 percentage points.\nWith only days left in his presidency, Trump - silenced by Twitter and shunned by a growing number of Republican officials - faces a renewed drive by Democrats to remove him from office after he incited his supporters to storm the US Capitol.\nDemocratic members of the House of Representatives will introduce formal articles of impeachment on Monday, Representative Ted Lieu said on Twitter.\nThe California Democrat, who helped draft the charges, said the articles had drawn 180 co-sponsors as of Saturday afternoon.\nHouse Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the top congressional Democrat, has threatened to impeach Trump for a historic second time unless he resigned 'immediately,' a move the pugnacious president is unlikely to consider.\nPelosi has also asked members to draft legislation aimed at invoking the US Constitution's 25th Amendment, which allows the removal of a president unable to fulfill the duties of the office.\nTrump 'has done something so serious - that there should be prosecution against him,' Pelosi told CBS' 60 Minutes according to an early excerpt of the interview.\nThe intensifying effort to oust Trump from the White House has drawn scattered support from Republicans, whose party has been splintered by the president's actions.\nDemocrats have pressed Vice President Mike Pence to consider the 25th Amendment, but a Pence adviser has said he opposes the idea.\nThe odds that Trump will actually be removed before January 20, when President-elect Joe Biden is sworn in, remain long.\nAny impeachment in the House would trigger a trial in the Republican-controlled Senate, which is scheduled to be in recess until January 19 and has already acquitted Trump once before.\nMajority Leader Mitch McConnell sent a memo to his fellow Republican senators suggesting a trial would not begin until Trump was out of office, a source familiar with the document said.\nA conviction in the Senate requires a two-thirds vote.\nDemocrats will take control of the Senate later this month, after Georgia certifies two runoff elections won by Democratic challengers.\nTwitter permanently cut off Trump's personal account and access to his nearly 90 million followers late on Friday, citing the risk of further incitement of violence, three days after Trump exhorted thousands of supporters to march on the Capitol as Congress met to certify Biden's November 3 election victory.\nThe resulting assault, viewed with shock around the world, left a police officer and four others dead in its wake, as rioters breached the Capitol and forced lawmakers into hiding for their own safety.\nPope Francis said on Saturday that anyone engaged in attacks on democracy must be condemned.\n'I was astonished because they are people so disciplined in democracy,' the pontiff told Italy's Canale 5 news channel in his first public comments on the events.\nA Florida man who was photographed smiling and waving as he carried Pelosi's lectern from the House chambers amid the chaos was arrested by federal law enforcement late Friday.\nAuthorities also arrested a man seen in widely shared photographs wearing a horned fur hat and carrying a spear inside the Capitol.\nDozens of others face federal and state charges.}}
{{SCOTT DETROW, HOST:\nJury selection in the murder trial for Derek Chauvin has been delayed at least until tomorrow. Chauvin is the former Minneapolis police officer who was caught on video kneeling on George Floyd's neck for almost nine minutes last May. Floyd's killing set off months of protests for racial justice around the country and around the world. That widespread outrage also led Minnesota's attorney general to take over the case and charge Chauvin with second-degree murder and manslaughter. Chauvin was in court this morning, and NPR's Adrian Florido is in Minneapolis to cover the trial. Good morning, Adrian.\nADRIAN FLORIDO, BYLINE: Good morning, Scott.\nDETROW: So this was going to be a big day in Minnesota. Protesters demanded murder charges for Floyd's death. They got them. Jury selection was set to start, but it's now been pushed back until at least tomorrow. What happened?\nFLORIDO: Well, you know, the prosecution and the defense in this case have been sparring because the state attorneys prosecuting Chauvin want to add a third-degree murder charge against him to kind of give themselves more options to win a conviction against him. This is in addition to the second-degree murder and manslaughter charges he already faces. And the issue of this new charge reached an appeals court last week, but it still hasn't been resolved. The state does not want to start jury selection until it knows all the charges it's going to be pursuing against Chauvin because it says the charges will affect its theory in the case and potentially who it decides it wants as jurors. The judge is not inclined to delay this much longer, but he did give the state a little bit of time today to pursue an appeal with a higher court. So as of now, the judge, unless he hears from a higher court to stop jury selection, said he plans to continue with it tomorrow morning.\nI should say, Scott, that this morning was also the first glimpse we got of the defendant in a long time. Derek Chauvin was dressed in a suit. He was seated next to his attorney. He wore a face mask. He didn't speak, but he seemed very engaged in what was going on. And he was taking notes on a yellow legal pad at the same time that protesters outside were marching and demanding that this trial get underway.\nDETROW: You know, you've been in the city for a few days. How are people in Minneapolis feeling about all of this?\nFLORIDO: You know, they're nervous. They're hopeful. They're also scared. This is the most important police brutality case in our nation's history, arguably, and an important test of the legal system and its ability to hold police accountable. Yesterday, demonstrators marched to the downtown courthouse. And this is what Jada Pounds (ph) told me.\nJADA POUNDS: I want this trial to set the precedent for our legal system to show that we are not going to stand for this because this is not like America that we live in should be for us, especially as people of color and Black people.\nFLORIDO: She said a conviction would send a message that police can be punished when they kill. But also, if there's an acquittal, it would send a message that they could kill with impunity.\nDETROW: You know, President Biden often quotes Floyd's daughter telling him that "Daddy changed the world." How do you find and seat an impartial jury in a case that had such global repercussions?\nFLORIDO: That's going to be a huge, huge challenge. A jury is supposed to be impartial - right? - sort of a blank slate. But with so much attention on this case, I mean, who could you find that hasn't seen that video of George Floyd gasping for breath and not formed an opinion about it? It's going to be interesting to see how lawyers for both sides approach this task of jury selection. We saw a questionnaire that went out to prospective jurors. And we expect that they'll be asked about their views on things like Black Lives Matter, on police brutality, whether they've attended protests. And jury selection is supposed to take up to three weeks because of how tedious it's supposed to be.\nDETROW: The prosecution is being handled by the office of Attorney General Keith Ellison. He's conceded he's under a lot of pressure here.\nFLORIDO: Immense pressure in part because the reality remains that convicting a police officer is not an easy task. This is something that Ellison has said before. It's also something that activists on the ground who really want a conviction are mindful of. So that is something that, you know, the city is bracing for. There's also a lot of security that has been put in place for this trial - barricades, National Guard troops patrolling the city, a guarded situation here in Minneapolis.\nDETROW: All right. NPR's Adrian Florido in Minneapolis, thank you so much.\nFLORIDO: Thanks, Scott. Transcript provided by NPR, Copyright NPR.}}
{{The explosion that tore through Beirut on Tuesday, killing at least 137 people and injuring thousands more, was just the latest disaster to hit the Lebanese people.\nThe country was already struggling with an economic catastrophe, a population falling into poverty, a Lebanese pound that had lost 80% of its value since October, banks that allowed only limited cash withdrawals and a barely functioning power grid that provided electricity two or three hours a day.\nTuesday’s destruction of swaths of the the capital is being blamed on 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate fertilizer stored for six years in a warehouse at the port. It caught fire and exploded.\nThe United States, France, Israel and Qatar have sent humanitarian aid to Lebanon.\nHere are some organizations that are providing help.\nLebanese Red Cross\nMore than 100 of the Red Cross’ ambulances responded to the explosion to transport critically wounded people to hospitals. It is taking part in search and rescue operations, providing emergency shelter for 1,000 families and anticipates adding up to 10,000 families in the coming months, and is distributing food, water, hygiene kits, masks and other essentials, it says. For updates follow the Lebanese Red Cross on Twitter: @RedCrossLebanon. You can donate here.\nLebanese Food Bank\nA nonprofit organization founded in 2012, it collects surplus food from restaurants, hotels, caterers, supermarkets and food importers and exporters. Here is it on Instagram.\nImpact Lebanon\nA non-sectarian, nonprofit group, it is crowdfunding to help those affected by the explosion. It is coordinating with other charities and says it will update its page will details on how the money is spent. You can donate here.\nBaytna Baytak\nThe organization was launched to provide housing for medical professionals — in unused AirBnBs, hotels and apartments — while responding to the COVID-19 pandemic so they would not have to worry about exposing their families. It is now raising funds with Impact Lebanon to help the more than 300,000 displaced by the explosion.\nIslamic Relief USA\nThe organization was already providing food to Lebanese in need, supplies to refugee families living in camps, among them an influx of Syrians, and funding for heart surgeries for children. The port was a major entry for food. More about Tuesday's devastation. More about the organization’s work here.\nUnited Nations World Food Program\nUp to 80 percent of Lebanon's food is imported, previously through the destroyed port, and between October and April, the country saw a 56% increase in food prices, according to the World Food Program. You can donate here.\nEmbrace\nStarted in 2013 in affiliation with the American University of Beirut Medical Center, Embrace is now an independent nonprofit organization that launched a national suicide prevention helpline in Lebanon. You can donate here.\nOffreJoie\nThe nonprofit group was launched during Lebanon’s civil war to foster a sense of solidarity in the country. It had created a food bank in April to help those hurt by the economic crises and the COVID-19 pandemic and is now rallying volunteers to help rebuild. You can donate here.}}
{{FILE - In this Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021 file photo, supporters of President Donald Trump, including Jacob Chansley, center with fur hat, are confronted by Capitol Police officers outside the Senate Chamber inside the Capitol in Washington. Chansley’s lawyer says that he reached out White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows about a possible pardon on behalf of the Arizona man, acknowledging it might be a reach but that “there’s nothing to lose.” (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta) AP\nIn what could be the longest of legal longshots, several of those arrested for storming the U.S. Capitol are holding out hope that President Donald Trump will use some of his last hours in office to grant the rioters a full and complete pardon.\nLongtime advisers to Trump are urging him against such a move but the rioters contend their argument is compelling: They went to the Capitol to support Trump, and now that they are facing charges carrying up to 20 years in prison, it’s time for Trump to support them.\n“I feel like I was basically following my president. I was following what we were called to do. He asked us to fly there. He asked us to be there. So I was doing what he asked us to do,” said Jenna Ryan, a Dallas-area real-estate agent who took a private jet to the Jan. 6 rally and ensuing riot to disrupt the certification of the election of President-elect Joe Biden.\nRyan -- who prosecutors say posted a now-deleted video of herself marching to the Capitol with the words, “We are going to f---ing go in here. Life or death” -- told Dallas television station KTVT, “I think we all deserve a pardon. I’m facing a prison sentence. I think I do not deserve that.”\nPerhaps the most high-profile rioter, the so-called “QAnon Shaman” who broke into the Senate chamber and posed at the dais with a spear, wearing a horned fur hat and animal skins, is also pleading for a pardon.\nJacob Chansley’s lawyer told The Associated Press that he reached out to White House chief of staff Mark Meadows about a possible pardon on behalf of the Arizona man, acknowledging it might be a reach but that there’s nothing to lose in seeking one.\nIf Chansley is not granted a pardon, attorney Albert Watkins said, it could offer the added benefit of further awakening his client to the fact that his devotion to Trump has not been reciprocated, comparing it to being a jilted lover or even a member of a cult.\n“The only thing that was missing at the Capitol was the president, our president, stirring up the Kool-Aid with a big spoon,” Watkins said.\nDominic Pezzola, a Rochester, New York, man and far-right Proud Boys supporter who was seen in a video using a clear police shield to shatter a Capitol window, also explored seeking a pardon but his attorney said there was not enough time to make it happen.\n“To believe the president is going to carte blanche issue these pardons is kind of a fantasy,” defense attorney Mike Scibetta told the AP. “I think it would cast a shadow on his own impeachment defense.”\nTrump, who has long reveled in suspense, was expected to spend his last full day in office issuing a flurry of pardons to as many as 100 people, two people briefed on the plans told the AP.\nBut if Harvard Law professor emeritus Alan Dershowitz has his say, the more than 150 rioters arrested so far and the thousands more suspected should not be among them.\nDershowitz, who represented Trump in his first impeachment last year, told the AP he has not been approached by any of the rioters about seeking a pardon but even if he had, “it would be wrong to pardon rioters who committed crimes.”\nSouth Carolina Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham, who speaks often with Trump, was among the confidantes urging the president not to go there.\n“I don’t care if you went there and spread flowers on the floor, you breached the security of the Capitol, you interrupted a joint session of Congress, you tried to intimidate us all,” Graham said on Fox Sunday Morning Futures. “You should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law and to seek a pardon of these people would be wrong.\nHe warned that such a move “would destroy President Trump.”\nNot all of those charged in the Jan. 6 riot are in the market for a pardon. Victoria Bergeson of Groton, Connecticut, who faces charges of violating curfew and unlawful entry wants her case to “just go away” but sees accepting a pardon “as an admission that she knowingly did something wrong,” said her attorney Samuel Bogash.\n“She does not want to do that due to a justifiable fear of how the public would perceive it,” he said. “She is already being trolled online.”\nNoah Bookbinder, the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a watchdog group, said Trump’s use of his clemency powers has set up a “spoils system” for his allies and pardoning the insurrectionists would just be a more extreme version.\n“That this president might be willing, even to pardon those who rose up against the United States," he said, “would be the ultimate statement of his perversion of the purpose behind pardons.”}}
{{Get all the very latest news in Ireland straight to your email every single day Sign up! Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email\nJoe Biden's supporters in his ancestral home in the west of Ireland are confident they will welcome him back as the new US president.\nAs the Democrat edges closer to the White House, residents in Ballina, Co Mayo are already planning to roll out the red carpet for his return.\nMr Biden's great-great-great-grandfather Edward Blewitt emigrated from the town almost 200 years ago, having worked as a brick-maker and as a civil engineer helping to map Ireland.\nLocals in the town now hope Mr Biden can follow in his ancestor's footsteps by putting Ballina on the map.\nTen of his 16 great-great grandparents were also born in Ireland.\n(Image: Brian Lawless/PA Wire)\nA mural of Mr Biden, which overlooks the main square in the old market town, was recently created by local artists Smiler Mitchell and Leslie Lackey.\nAfter the unveiling, Mr Biden pledged to revisit the town if he wins the election.\nHe first visited Ballina in June 2016 as US vice-president, and met with a number of relatives including Joe and Laurita Blewitt.\nMr Blewitt said he believes his cousin will be the next president of the US.\nHe added: "It will be unreal for the family. I have met him three or four times now and to know someone who is going to be the president of the United States is unreal.\n(Image: Brian Lawless/PA Wire)\n"I was in the White House a few years ago and it was a cool place to be in so I am looking forward to going back again.\n"I am confident he will win, though I wasn't too sure on Tuesday if he would win but hopefully tonight he will make it.\n"It's great for Ballina, the mural has attracted a lot of attention. We sent him a picture of the mural - he couldn't get over it.\n"He actually robbed my line and wrote on his home house in Scranton (Pennsylvania) 'from my house to the White House'.\n"Everyone in Ballina is proud of him."\n(Image: Brian Lawless/PA Wire)\nAnthony Heffernan, who owns Heffernan cafe and butchers in the Market Square, hosted Mr Biden and some 20 of his entourage in 2016.\n"Mr Biden came here on a family visit and he gathered about 22 of his distant relatives and had a meal with them to get to know them," he said.\n"They chose our building because it was secure. Sniffer dogs went through the building, it was very exciting.\n"The Bidens were lovely people - they just wanted to talk about Ballina and find out the history of the town and what it was like when their family were here.\n"Everyone is very keen and paying close attention to the election, we are pretty sure he will get in though I don't think Mr Trump will give in easily.\n(Image: Anthony Heffernan/PA Wire) (Image: Anthony Heffernan/PA Wire) (Image: Anthony Heffernan/PA Wire)\n"I think Joe Biden spoke very well on Wednesday night.\n"He has told relatives here that he will be back when he becomes president."\nOne of Mr Biden's distant relatives, Bernie Finan, has met the Democrat twice.\n"I first met him when he was coming down the main street and was shaking hands with everyone and I spoke to him and told him we are related," he said.\n"I asked if he would mind that I contact him when he got back to the US and he said it would be fine.\n"He seems nice, a simple man of the people and that's reflected in the vote in recent days.\n"I've been keeping a very close eye on it, I switched the radio on when I went to bed and then spent most of yesterday and today listening to it.\n"He's edging that bit closer and I heard the bookies gave him three-to-one and seldom do the bookies make a mistake.\n"Biden and the razzle dazzle has been good for Ballina. Let's hope it will be more useful in the future as it's a beautiful town."\nAmong many of the locals flying the flag for the presidential hopeful was Maria Bourke from Knockmore.\nShe said: "We hope Biden will win it and not the other one (Donald Trump).\n"I think the whole world wants Biden to win.\n"Ballina will go mad and I hope there are no restrictions when he comes to visit as the whole town will go mad.\n"Everyone will be delighted, he is more normal than the other man. Biden is more of a family man.\n"People want a leader they can relate to and see as a family man."\nLocal Tricia Mullen said: "We've been following it closely these last few days and I am dying to see who wins.\n"My children are getting me up early in the mornings so I am able to follow what's happening."\nAlso among Mr Biden's fans is eight-year-old Aobha Brennan, who hopes to one day welcome him to her home town.\nShe said: "I want him to win as he's a nice man.\n"I would love to meet him. I've been watching him on my television. He just needs a few more votes to win and I'll be so excited."\nMary, who did not want to give her surname, said it is likely Mr Biden will return to the county as president.\nShe was among the thousands of people on the streets to greet the Bidens in 2016.\n"I spoke to him and shook his hand, it was very exciting, she said.\n"Joe Biden came with his entourage and his security. I was expecting all of his bodyguards to be pushing us away behind a line but there was none of that.\n"It was very relaxed - just like Biden.\n"He was walking down the street and spoke to everyone and there were no issues.\n"It was a very exciting day for everyone. He was all smiles and we were all smiles.\n"Everyone is excited to see what happens next."}}
{{News in your town\nIllinois, USDA team up to manage, sustain vast forest lands\nDes Moines man arrested for alleged participation in storming of U.S. Capitol\nWhite man who drove into Iowa protesters avoids prison\nIowa and Illinois news in brief\nMadison Black officers group looks to foster relationships\nWisconsin news in brief\nIowa labor force dropping along with unemployment rate\nMore demand Illinois congresswoman who cited Hitler resign\nIllinois/Wisconsin news in brief\nIowa news in brief\nMan who killed Iowa woman in hit-and-run sentenced to prison\nLawyer with Wisconsin firm involved in Trump's call to Georgia official resigns\nActivists seek laws after officer cleared in Blake shooting\nIowa/Wisconsin/Illinois news in brief\nWisconsin GOP Sen. Johnson says no decision on his political future\nIowa coronavirus deaths push state to new monthly high\nNo charges against Wisconsin officer who shot Jacob Blake\nIllinois teen pleads not guilty in Kenosha protest shootings\nOff-duty Chicago officer latest carjacking victim in city\nIowa, Illinois and Wisconsin news in brief\nNo charges against Wisconsin officer who shot Jacob Blake\nNo charges against Wisconsin officer who shot Jacob Blake\nBusinesses, public health agencies at odds over virus bill\nWisconsin gun dealers still trying to keep up with demand\nFormer city clerk given probation after stealing funds in Iowa\nWisconsin city braces for protest as charging decision looms\nWisconsin Republicans ignore Evers on virus response plan\nProsecutor: Wisconsin pharmacist thought vaccine was unsafe\nIliinois news in brief\nIowa news in brief\nIowa officials push schools back into classrooms\nIowa officials push schools back into classrooms\nProsecutor: Wisconsin pharmacist thought vaccine was unsafe\nBoog Sciambi to replace Len Kasper for Cubs TV broadcasts\nWisconsin Gov. Evers calls on Legislature to pass COVID-19 bill first\nPandemic grounds bald eagle count for 1st time in 50 years\nVictims in northern Illinois bowling alley shooting honored\nIowa and Wisconsin news in brief\nIllinois high court to rule on cannabis-license dispute\nSioux City charity fires 2 school-program officials, alleging misuse of taxpayer dollars\nUW-Stevens Point marks Native American burial site on campus\nFormer Chicago industrial site being eyed as solar farm\nFilling of prescriptions is harder with insurer's action}}
{{WASHINGTON—President Biden has directed the intelligence community to assess the threat of domestic extremism and develop ways to focus on identifying and countering networks following the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol, the White House said Friday.\n“The rise of domestic violent extremism is a serious and growing national threat,” White House press secretary Jen Psaki said. “The Biden administration will confront this threat with the necessary resources and resolve.”\nCopyright ©2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 87990cbe856818d5eddac44c7b1cdeb8}}
{{The jury has reached a verdict at the murder trial of ex-cop Derek Chauvin in George Floyd’s death.\nMr Floyd died last May after Chauvin, a white officer, pinned his knee on the 46-year-old black man’s neck for about nine-and-a-half minutes in a case that triggered worldwide protests, violence and a furious re-examination of racism and policing in the US.}}
{{Residents of nursing homes could receive the vaccine by the end of December, according to an official.}}
{{National-World\nA verdict has been reached in Derek Chauvin’s trial in the death of George Floyd, according to a notice posted by the court on the Hennepin County Court’s website. The jurors’ decision will be read in open court between 3:30 and 4 p.m. CT, the court said.\nThe jury of five men and seven women deliberated for four hours Monday afternoon and resumed deliberating Tuesday morning, according to the court. They are being sequestered from the public during deliberations.\nChauvin, 45, has pleaded not guilty to second-degree unintentional murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.\nThe deliberations began after three weeks of testimony in one of the most closely watched cases of the Black Lives Matter era. The prosecution’s case against Chauvin featured 38 witnesses as they sought to show the former Minneapolis Police officer committed murder when he kneeled on the neck and back of Floyd, handcuffed and prone on the street, for 9 minutes and 29 seconds on May 25, 2020.\nProsecutors have repeatedly told jurors to “believe your eyes” and rely on the infamous bystander video of Floyd’s death.\n“This case is exactly what you thought when you saw it first, when you saw that video. It is exactly that. You can believe your eyes,” prosecuting attorney Steve Schleicher said in closing arguments. “This wasn’t policing. This was murder.”\nThe defense called seven witnesses of its own — but not Chauvin himself, as he invoked his Fifth Amendment right not to testify.\nDefense attorney Eric Nelson argued that Chauvin’s use of force was unattractive but appropriate and said he was distracted by a crowd of hostile bystanders on the scene. He also argued that Floyd died due to fentanyl and methamphetamine use, his resistance of officers and his underlying heart problems, rather than due to Chauvin’s actions.\nThe second-degree murder charge says Chauvin intentionally assaulted Floyd with his knee, which unintentionally caused Floyd’s death. The third-degree murder charge says Chauvin acted with a “depraved mind, without regard for human life.” And the second-degree manslaughter charge says Chauvin’s “culpable negligence” caused Floyd’s death.\nThe charges are to be considered separate, so Chauvin could be convicted of all, some or none of them. If convicted, Chauvin could face up to 40 years in prison for second-degree murder, up to 25 years for third-degree murder and up to 10 years for second-degree manslaughter.\nThe actual sentences would likely be much lower, though, because Chauvin has no prior convictions. Minnesota’s sentencing guidelines recommend about 12.5 years in prison for each murder charge and about four years for the manslaughter charge.\nSix of the jurors are White, four are Black and two are multiracial, according to information released by the court. Two other jurors who were initially selected as alternates were dismissed prior to the start of deliberations.\nA nation waits on edge\nFloyd’s death last May set off unrest and mass protests challenging the ways that police treat Black people in the US. In a first for Minnesota, the trial has been broadcast live in its entirety to accommodate Covid-19 attendance restrictions, giving the public a rare look into the heart of the legal system.\nThough the trial has focused specifically on Chauvin and Floyd, the stakes of the case were made clear last week when a police officer in nearby Brooklyn Center was charged with manslaughter after she fatally shot a 20-year-old Black man during a traffic stop.\nTensions are high throughout the Twin Cities region, and authorities have ramped up security in anticipation of a verdict. The Hennepin County Government Center has been surrounded by fencing and barricades since jury selection began in March.\nMore than 3,000 Minnesota National Guard members have also been activated in the Twin Cities, while businesses in Minneapolis have boarded up windows.\nPresident Joe Biden on Tuesday said he is praying for the “right” verdict in the case, noting that the evidence is, in his view, “overwhelming.” He also said he spoke with Floyd’s family on Monday.\n“They’re a good family, and they’re calling for peace and tranquility, no matter what that verdict is,” he told reporters in the Oval Office.\nProsecutor says trial is ‘pro-police’\nIn the prosecution’s first phase of the trial, video from the scene and bystanders’ testimony revealed Floyd gasping for air and saying “I can’t breathe” 27 times under Chauvin’s restraint. Next, a series of police supervisors and use-of-force experts — including Minneapolis Police Chief Medaria Arradondo — criticized Chauvin’s continued kneeling as excessive and unreasonable, particularly after Floyd had passed out, stopped breathing and had no pulse.\nFinally, five separate medical experts explained that Floyd died from a lack of oxygen when Chauvin restricted his ability to breathe in what’s known as “positional asphyxia.”\nIn the state’s closing argument, Schleicher said Chauvin kneeled on Floyd for so long because of his pride and his ego in the face of concerned bystanders.\n“He was not going to let these bystanders tell him what to do. He was going to do what he wanted, how he wanted, for as long as he wanted. And there was nothing, nothing they can do about it because he had the authority. He had the power, and the other officers, the bystanders were powerless,” he said. “He was trying to win, and George Floyd paid for it with his life.”\nHe contrasted Chauvin’s “ego-based pride” with the proper feelings of pride in wearing a police badge and praised policing as a noble profession. He insisted the state was prosecuting Chauvin individually — not policing in general.\n“This is not an anti-police prosecution; it is a pro-police prosecution,” he said. “There is nothing worse for good police than bad police.”\nIn response, Nelson said Chauvin acted as a “reasonable officer” would in that situation and said there was no evidence he intentionally or purposefully used force that was unlawful.\n“You have to look at it from the reasonable police officer standard. You have to take into account that officers are human beings, capable of making mistakes in highly stressful situations,” Nelson said. “In this case, the totality of the circumstances that were known to a reasonable police officer in the precise moment the force was used demonstrates that this was an authorized use of force, as unattractive as it may be. This is reasonable doubt.”}}
{{Prayers for our nation were extra loud yesterday (January 6) when rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol as Congress gathered to count Electoral College votes.\nWant news at your fingertips? Text “ERICA” to 52140 to join our club. (Terms and conditions)\nAmong the prayers of people on the outside looking in were prayers from the inside. Big and loud prayers. Prayers of unwavering faith in God to turn things around. The powerful prayer was caught on video and it showed Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.) not only praying for the safety of her peers under attack, but for the attackers, too!\nCLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD OUR APP AND TAKE US WITH YOU ANYWHERE!\nWith all the chaos going on in the room, her words came across faint, but obviously bold.\n“Father God you have all power. We know that all things work together for the good…so we are trusting right now in the name of Jesus…peace in the land, peace in this country…right now in the name of Jesus,” she prayed. “Protect all of our brothers and sisters in this Congress. Protect America…we thank you right now in this moment.”\nWhen you think about it, it was a true depiction of faith moving mountains because the unfortunate event could have gotten worse had the huge crowd made their way into the room while U.S. representatives were still present.\nHe’s an on-time God!\nSEE ALSO:\nWhat Charges Can The Terrorists Who Broke Into The US Capitol Face?\nGRIFF’s Prayer For Georgia’s Newly Elected Senator, Pastor Raphael Warnock [VIDEO]\nHEAD BACK TO GETUPERICA.COM}}
{{Beirut, Aug 4 (AP) A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky.\nAt least 25 people were killed and 2,500 injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.\nAlso Read | Lebanon Blast | 'Our Embassy Staff Are Safe, We're in Touch With Indian Community Members', Says Indian Envoy to Lebanon S Azaz Khan : Live News Breaking And Coronavirus Updates on August 4, 2020.\nHours later, ambulances still carried away the wounded as army helicopters helped battle fires raging at the port.\nThe sudden devastation overwhelmed a country already struggling with both the coronavirus pandemic and an economic crisis: Beirut hospitals quickly filled beyond capacity, pleading for blood supplies and generators to keep their lights on.\nAlso Read | Lebanon: Blast in Beirut Claims 10 Lives, India's Embassy Shares Helpline Numbers For Indian Community Members.\nThe cause of the blast, which sparked fires, overturned cars and blew out windows and doors, was not immediately known.\nAbbas Ibrahim, chief of Lebanese General Security, said it might have been caused by highly explosive material that was confiscated from a ship some time ago and stored at the port. Local television channel LBC said the material was sodium nitrate.\nWitnesses reported seeing a strange orange-colored cloud over the site after the explosion. Orange clouds of toxic nitrogen dioxide gas often accompany an explosion involving nitrates.\nAn Israeli government official said Israel “had nothing to do” with the blast. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter with the media. Israeli officials usually do not comment on “foreign reports.”\nThe blast was stunning even for a city that has seen civil war, suicide bombings and bombardment by Israel. It could be heard and felt as far away as Cyprus, more than 200 kilometers (180 miles) across the Mediterranean.\n“It was a real horror show. I haven't seen anything like that since the days of the (civil) war,” said Marwan Ramadan, who was about 500 metres (yards) from the port and was knocked off his feet by the force of the explosion.\nHealth Minister Hassan Hamad said the preliminary toll was 25 dead and more than 2,500 wounded. Emergency teams streamed in from across Lebanon to help, and injured had to be taken to hospitals outside the capital.\nSome of those injured lay on the ground at the port, Associated Press staff at the scene said. A civil defense official said there were still bodies inside the port, many under debris.\nBeirut's governor, Marwan Abboud, broke into tears as he toured the site, saying, “Beirut is a devastated city.” Initially, video taken by residents showed a fire raging at the port, sending up a giant column of smoke, illuminated by flashes of what appear to be fireworks. Local TV stations reported that a fireworks warehouse was involved.\nThe fire then appeared to catch at a nearby building, triggering a more massive explosion, sending up a mushroom cloud and a shock wave.\nCharbel Haj, who works at the port, said it started as small explosions like firecrackers. Then, he said, he was thrown off his feet by the huge blast. His clothes were torn.\nMiles from the port, building facades were shredded, balconies were knocked down and windows shattered. Streets were covered with glass and bricks and lined with wrecked cars. Motorcyclists picked their way through traffic, carrying the injured.\nOne woman covered in blood from the waist up walked down a trashed street while talking furiously on her phone. On another street, a woman with a bloodied face looked distraught, staggering through traffic with two friends at her side.\n“This country is cursed,” a young man passing by muttered.\nThe blast came at a time when Lebanon's economy is facing collapse from the financial crisis and the coronavirus restrictions. Many have lost jobs, while the worth of their savings has evaporated as the currency has plunged in value against the dollar. The result has thrown many into poverty.\nIt also occurred amid rising tensions between Israel and the militant Hezbollah group along Lebanon's southern border.\nThe explosion was reminiscent of massive blasts during Lebanon's civil war and took place only three days before a UN-backed tribunal was set to give its verdict in the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in a truck bombing more than 15 years ago. That explosion, with a ton of explosives, was felt miles away, just like Tuesday's explosion.\nSeveral of Beirut's hospitals were damaged in the blast. Roum Hospital put out a call for people to bring it spare generators to keep its electricity going as it evacuated patients because of heavy damage.\nOutside the St George University Hospital in Beirut's Achrafieh neighbourhood, people with various injuries arrived in ambulances, in cars and on foot. The explosion had caused major damage inside the building and knocked out the electricity at the hospital. Dozens of injured were being treated on the spot on the street outside, on stretchers and wheelchairs.\n“This is a catastrophe we have on our hands,” said one doctor, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorised to make press statements. (AP)\n(This is an unedited and auto-generated story from Syndicated News feed, LatestLY Staff may not have modified or edited the content body)}}
{{The Eiffel Tower in Paris went dark in solidarity with Beirut two days after a devastating explosion rocked the city.\nVideo captured of the French landmark shows the tower’s bright lights dimming at midnight on Aug. 6. The explosion left at least 135 dead and thousands injured, with buildings across the city severely damaged and dozens of people still missing.\nRELATED: Beirut blast devastation seen in new satellite images\nExperts and video footage suggest that fireworks and ammonium nitrate were the fuel that ignited a massive explosion that rocked the Lebanese capital of Beirut on Tuesday.\nOther countries have also shown solidarity with Lebanon by illuminating their own famous landmarks, including Egypt, which portrayed the colors of the Lebanese flag on the Giza pyramids.\nAdvertisement\nOver the years, the Eiffel Tower has paid respects to those impacted by tragedies across the world. In 2018, the French landmark shut off its lights to honor the victims of the Pittsburgh Synagogue shooting.\nRather than shutting off its lights, in 2016, the Eiffel Tower displayed vibrant rainbow colors to pay tribute to the victims of the Orlando nightclub shooting.\nRELATED: Video shows massive explosion and mushroom cloud over Beirut}}
{{Former Navy SEAL Robert J. O’Neill has called the rioters looting the US’ major cities “politically-funded terrorists,” and called for a harsh military response. O’Neill isn’t the only pundit who sees a dark hand behind the riots.\nGeorge Floyd, an unarmed black man, was pinned to the ground and apparently choked to death by Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin on Monday. Since then, riots have consumed the Minnesota city and spread like wildfire throughout the US. According to O’Neill – the Navy SEAL who shot Osama Bin Laden in the famous 2011 raid – the unrest is being orchestrated from behind the scenes.\n“I despise racism, I despise police brutality and it kills me that politically-funded terrorists are doing this on the shoulders of both,” he tweeted on Friday night “These are coordinated attacks, are we going to defend ourselves?”\nI despise racism, I despise police brutality and it kills me that politically-funded terrorists are doing this on the shoulders of both. — Robert J. O'Neill (@mchooyah) May 30, 2020\nO’Neill didn’t suggest that the Democrat mayors of these cities are directly funding the destruction of their own hometowns, but hinted at that.\nLots of cities being run by Democrats are being looted. Must be a coincidence. — Robert J. O'Neill (@mchooyah) May 30, 2020\nAs O’Neill tweeted, throngs of protesters in Minneapolis defied a National Guard-enforced curfew and embarked on a fourth night of looting and arson. A police station was razed to the ground, and more retail outlets were stripped bare. Similar scenes played out in Detroit, Atlanta, New York, Los Angeles, Portland and a number of other urban areas.\nAlso on rt.com 'Nothing else we can do to let our voices be heard': Protesters say violent riots the only way to get George Floyd justice\nHowever, he’s not the only commentator who thinks that someone is egging the rioters on. As the former SEAL ranted on Twitter, the hashtag “#AntifaTerrorists” trended. Unconfirmed reports on social media suggested that rioters were being directed by ‘organizers’, while the predominantly white members of ‘Antifa’ groups were blamed for instigating violence and vandalism.\nThe idea is not without precedent. Earlier this week, the 17-year-old daughter of Minnesota Rep. Ilhan Omar (D) retweeted a post from her local Democratic Socialists of America (DSA), requesting supplies for “comrades” rioting in Minneapolis. These supplies included plywood, sticks, and rackets, ostensibly for defending against police weaponry.\nPresident Donald Trump too called the protesters “professionally managed.” Blaming “ANTIFA and the Radical Left,” he tweeted on Saturday that “These are ‘Organized Groups’ that have nothing to do with George Floyd. Sad!”\nThese are “Organized Groups” that have nothing to do with George Floyd. Sad! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2020\nPerhaps unsurprisingly for a man who’s spent a career solving problems with the barrel of a gun, O’Neill wants a stern crackdown on the riots. “After fighting Al-Qaeda, I’m embarrassed that our law enforcement can’t defend our citizens,” he tweeted, adding that the authorities should “meet force with force.”\n“To all the cops who retreated from invaders,” he added, seemingly referring to the police precinct abandoned to arsonists on Thursday night, “put your badges in the trash.”\nTo all the cops who retreated from invaders: Put your badges in the trash. — Robert J. O'Neill (@mchooyah) May 30, 2020\nAs the Pentagon reportedly drew up plans to send in military police units to Minneapolis, President Trump criticized Mayor Jacob Frey for his apparent loss of control. “Get tough and fight,” he tweeted on Saturday, “STRENGTH!”\nMinnesota Governor Tim Walz, who was also criticized for his delayed response to the riots, announced on Saturday that he would deploy the full force of the state’s National Guard. “Everything that we believe in, these people are trying to destroy,” he said, just two days after he called the display of anger on the streets of Minneapolis “justified.”\nThink your friends would be interested? Share this story!}}
{{Former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie on Wednesday blamed President Donald Trump for the actions of his supporters who breached the U.S. Capitol to protest the results of the presidential election.\nIn an interview on ABC News, Christie said that Trump should publicly call on his supporters to leave the Capitol.\n“Anything short of that is an abrogation of his responsibility,” said Christie, a close confidant of the president’s.\n“The president caused this protest to occur. He’s the only one who can make it stop.”\nChristie asserted that Trump and his son, Donald Trump Jr., were responsible for the actions of the mob, though he said that they did not necessarily anticipate that the Capitol building would be blitzed.\n“He spoke to this crowd, his son spoke to this crowd, and sent them on their way,” said Christie.\n“I don’t know that they anticipated that this was going to be the result, but it doesn’t matter whether they did or they didn’t; this is the result of their words. So now their words must put a stop to this.”\nBREAKING: Chris Christie to @GStephanopoulos: “I’ve been spending the last 25 minutes or so trying to get the president on the phone myself to say this to him directly…The president caused this protest to occur. He’s the only one who can make it stop.” https://t.co/Irgxfms4B4 pic.twitter.com/bR2ybYWUaJ — ABC News (@ABC) January 6, 2021\nAt least one person was reportedly shot inside the Capitol. Police shut down the building and ordered lawmakers and their staff members to either shelter in their offices or evacuate.\nVideo footage from inside the Capitol showed that a woman who appeared to be carrying a Trump flag had been shot in the neck, ABC News reported. Her status is unclear.\nTrump and Trump Jr. spoke earlier on Wednesday at a rally held to encourage Vice President Mike Pence and Senate Republicans to refuse to certify votes from the Electoral College. Pence informed Congress that he did not have the constitutional authority to overturn states’ votes in the Electoral College.}}
{{Close Get email notifications on {{subject}} daily!\nYour notification has been saved.\nThere was a problem saving your notification.\n{{description}}\nEmail notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.}}
{{Shocking explosion in Beirut's port as hundreds feared dead\nThis is the shocking explosion that rocked Beirut, Lebanon on Tuesday (August 4) at approximately 6 pm local time, as local officials expect upwards of hundreds of casualties.\nEarly reports have been conflicting, with some indicating the explosion was caused by fireworks and other officials saying it was highly explosive materials.\nDusky red air hangs over the city in the wake of the explosion as firefighting teams rushed to the scene to try to put out the fire.\nAt least 10 firefighters were missing, according to the city's governor Marwan Abboud, who said the scene reminded him of "Hiroshima and Nagasaki," referencing the two atomic bombs dropped on Japan by the United States in World War II.\nLocal bicycle shop owner Karim Sokhn captured the heart-stopping moment, telling Newsflare his store was severely damaged.\n“They’ve evacuated us and we have no access now,” Sokhn tells Newsflare.\nFurther footage shows the smoke emanating from the explosion and footage of Sokhn’s bike shop from an earlier Instagram post.}}
{{Weekdays at 10:30 a.m. CST/11:30 a.m. EST, Newsfeed Now will be streaming the top stories in the U.S. utilizing our newsrooms across the country. If you miss the live report, you’ll be able to see a replay minutes after the stream ends.\n(NEXSTAR)- President Donald Trump’s effort to overturn the presidential election is going before Congress as lawmakers convene for a joint session Wednesday to confirm the Electoral College vote won by Joe Biden.\nFor more information and to watch the proceedings live Wednesday afternoon, check out the full story from NewsNation.\nOther stories in today’s show:\nGEORGIA SENATE RUNOFF: Georgia voters headed back to the polls Tuesday to cast their ballots in runoff elections that will decide control of the U.S. Senate.\nFor more information and the latest results, check out the full story from WSAV.\nSTUDENTS BUY SPECIALIZED SHIELD FOR TEACHER AT HIGH RISK FOR COVID-19: Austin High School teacher Annie Dragoo is dealing with multiple health issues that make her at high risk for severe COVID-19 complications. After being denied a medical accommodation for the upcoming semester, she has been worried about returning to the classroom.\nSome current and former students of Dragoo’s were able to help put her mind at ease, at least a little bit. The students pooled money together to get Dragoo a special piece of personal protective equipment to help her feel safer in the classroom.\nFor more information, check out the full story from KXAN.\nPOSTAL DELIVERY DELAYS: The holiday season may be over but the United States Postal Service is still experiencing delays in package deliveries.\nThe USPS website says they’re experiencing unprecedented volume increases and limited employee availability due to the effect of COVID-19.\nFor more information, check out the full story from FOX2 Now.\nWHAT IS ‘HEALTHY’? The United Kingdom’s edition of Cosmopolitan magazine highlights 11 women on “personal journeys to reclaim healthy as their own.”\nThe magazine turned the women into cover models with “This is healthy” splashed across each of their photos.\nFor more information, check out the full story from NewsNation.}}
{{Lebanon’s last major war was in 2006, between Israel and Hezbollah, the Iranian-backed militant group and political party that remains committed to the destruction of the Jewish state. In recent years, Israel has launched frequent airstrikes on Hezbollah targets in neighboring Syria, but has mostly avoided bombing it in Lebanon to avoid setting off a cycle of retaliation that could lead to a new war.\nTensions between Hezbollah and Israel have flared lately on Lebanon’s southern border, leading many Lebanese to speculate that Israel had targeted materials connected to Hezbollah and hidden in Beirut’s port.\nAn Israeli official said that Israel “had nothing to do with the incident” on Tuesday.\nThe blasts emanated from Beirut’s port but were felt as far away as Cyprus, more than 180 miles to the west. They ravaged Beirut’s downtown business district, a nearby waterfront full of restaurants and nightclubs, and a number of crowded residential neighborhoods in the city’s eastern and predominantly Christian half.\nNearly all the windows along one popular commercial strip had been blown out and the street was littered with glass, rubble and cars that had slammed into each other after the blast.\nAbbas Saleh, a 28-year-old driver, was in his car when he saw a flash and heard a boom, and his windshield shattered.\n“You would never think it was an explosion,” he said. “More like missiles coming down on us.”\nHe ran out of his car and began helping Red Cross workers carry the dead and wounded.\nAll around, families struggled to get wounded relatives out of their buildings so they could be piled into ambulances or onto the backs of motor scooters. The Lebanese Red Cross said that every available ambulance from North Lebanon, Bekaa and South Lebanon was dispatched to Beirut, but so many roads had been rendered impassible that many of the wounded had to walk to the hospital themselves.\nSpace, medics and supplies were lacking. Hospitals in the hardest-hit areas were heavily damaged, with at least one shutting down altogether and others treating bleeding patients in their parking lots.\nSt. George Hospital in central Beirut, one of the city’s biggest, was so severely damaged that it had to send patients elsewhere.\n“My friends, my friends,” Dr. Joseph Haddad, the hospital’s director of intensive care, said in a phone call. “This is Joseph Haddad calling you from St. George Hospital. There is no St. George Hospital anymore. It’s fallen, it’s on the floor,” Dr. Haddad says, as broken glass is heard crackling underfoot. “It’s all destroyed. All of it. Pray to God, pray to God.”\nAt Bikhazi Medical Group hospital in the center of Beirut, wounded patients streamed into a damaged hospital.\n“The door to the entrance of the hospital is completely shattered,” said Rima Azar, the hospital director and co-owner. “The full ceiling fell on some patients in some rooms. The pressure was horrific. We heard a boom, then everything was shaking. There was a second blow that was super loud. Everything was falling from desks, from shelves.”\nThe 60-bed hospital treated 500 patients in the hours after the blast, she said.\nAnother hospital farther out received so many patients that medics lined them on the floor and in hallways. Those with non-life-threatening injuries had them cleaned and stapled shut before being sent on their way.}}
{{The U.S. Army secretary says he was not asked for National Guard troops to protect the U.S. Capitol ahead of the mob storming into the complex and ransacking lawmaker’s offices on Wednesday.\n"We were not pre-coordinated or asked for support by the Capitol Police," Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy told a small group of reporters at the Pentagon Friday morning.\nHUNDREDS HONOR FALLEN CAPITOL POLICE OFFICER WITH MOMENT OF SILENCE\n"The Capitol Hill Police has the responsibility and the jurisdiction. They are a separate branch of government," McCarthy said. "They have to ask and request the support."\nAs late as Sunday, Jan. 3, "They said they didn’t need any support," McCarthy said.\nAt 3:04 pm Wednesday with an angry mob laying siege at the U.S. Capitol, Acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller ordered the National Guard to help retake the building. "It was green light, go," McCarthy said.\nThis was minutes after McCarthy said he received a call from the U.S. Capitol Hill Police chief who called saying, "I need help!"\n"They were under duress," McCarthy said.\nMcCarthy said he "sprinted" to the acting defense secretary’s office after receiving the urgent plea for help.\nAt 2:20 pm the Army secretary, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley and the head of National Guard Gen. Daniel Hokanson began discussing options for helping the U.S. Capitol Police clearly overwhelmed with the mob. "We needed to support the Capitol, I needed to mobilize the entire Guard," McCarthy said.\n"We had already put a warning order in place for all our locations to move," he added.\n"Never at any given time was there a question of ‘we are not going to help,’ it was a matter of how," McCarthy added.\nAt 3:19 p.m., McCarthy called congressional leadership to update them. The leaders had been evacuated to Fort McNair in Washington, D.C., near Nationals Park.\nJust before 4:00 p.m., McCarthy arrived in Washington, D.C., at police headquarters to meet with Mayor Bowser, Washington Metropolitan Police Department Chief Robert Contee, and the deputy director of the FBI to start on a plan to retake the Capitol.\nTOM HOMAN: POLICE AT CAPITOL RIOTS OUTNUMBERED, RISKED THEIR LIVES AND LEADERSHIP FAILED THEM\nThe Department of Justice is the lead federal agency for this effort, McCarthy said, "Who was best suited to get in there quickly?" In the end, a tactical team of FBI and ATF agents stormed into the Capitol and retook the building from the mob.\nGen. Hokanson said he spoke to head of Virginia’s National Guard who said "they would be ready to go by tomorrow morning [Thursday, Jan. 7th]. It would take 8-10 hours for them to arrive at the Capitol."\nBy 8 p.m., Congress was back in session proceeding with the election certification.\nBy Sunday there will be 6,200 National Guard troops on the ground. It will be "at a minimum" a 30-day deployment, McCarthy said.\nMcCarthy was asked by a reporter if more forces could have been in place sooner to prevent the mob from breaking into the U.S. Capitol.\n"We could have had a stronger posture, sure, but I am not going to Monday morning quarterback this now," McCarthy said. "It’s only if they ask us."\nCLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP\nThe 850 National Guard members are currently standing 12-hour shifts at the U.S. Capitol.\nMcCarthy said seeing the mob attack the Capitol was "one of the worst days of my life."\nJennifer Griffen contributed to this report.}}
{{President Trump walks back to the White House escorted by the Secret Service after appearing outside of St John's Episcopal church across Lafayette Park in Washington, D.C., on Monday. Brendan Smialowski/AFP via Getty Images\nAs the country erupts in protests over police brutality and racism, two-thirds of Americans think President Trump has increased racial tensions in the U.S., according to a new NPR/PBS NewsHour/Marist poll.\nThe poll offers a snapshot of a nation in upheaval after a video captured a Minneapolis police officer with his knee on the neck of a black man named George Floyd, who was pleading for his life before he died.\nOverall, 67 percent said Trump has mostly increased racial tensions, including 92 percent of Democrats, 73 percent of independents, 88 percent of Africans Americans and 63 percent of whites.\nJust 18 percent said he has decreased tensions, including 41 percent of Republicans. In fact, almost 6 in 10 Republicans believe he has either increased tensions (29 percent) or are not sure (30 percent). That's a finding the pollsters see as significant given how in lockstep Republicans have been with Trump on nearly everything.\n"It's very unusual to see Republicans break when the name Trump is presented, but that is the case here," said Lee Miringoff, director of the Marist Institute for Public Opinion, which conducted the poll.\nThe survey of 1,062 adults was conducted Tuesday and Wednesday, after Trump's walk to St. John's Church in Washington, D.C., ahead of which law enforcement forcibly removed peaceful protesters. Also that Wednesday, retired Marine Gen. Jim Mattis, Trump's first defense secretary, released a statement criticizing the president.\nTrump has threatened the use of military force against violent rioters, who are outnumbered by peaceful protesters and who the president has said dishonor Floyd's memory. A tweet of his that included the civil rights-era phrase "when the looting starts, the shooting starts" was flagged by Twitter as violating its policy against "glorifying violence."\nDon't see the graphic above? Click here.\nIntensifying disapproval\nCoinciding with Trump's handling of race relations are the ongoing coronavirus pandemic and the downward turn of the economy. And the poll found that Trump is suffering politically.\nThe number of people disapproving of the job he's doing as president is near a record; the intensity of the opposition against him — how many people strongly disapprove — is the highest it has ever been. To boot, he's losing by a substantial margin to presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden, according to the poll.\nTrump's approval rating is 41 percent in the poll. That's about where it has been since he took office. It's down 2 points since March, the last time the poll measured his overall approval rating, but his overall disapproval number jumped 5 points to 55 percent\nHis fairly consistent approval number masks significant movement beneath the surface. Almost half the country now — 47 percent — strongly disapproves of the job he's doing.\nIt was remarkable when earlier in Trump's presidency, some 40 percent strongly disapproved of him, but 47 percent? To put that in context, that's a point higher than the percentage of the popular vote that he got in the 2016 presidential election.\nThat movement comes largely from independents. Overall, 56 percent of them disapprove of the job Trump is doing, up from 50 percent in March. The number of independents now strongly disapproving has jumped 10 points, from 33 percent to 43 percent.\nDon't see the graphic above? Click here.\nTrump vs. Biden\nAs his disapproval shifts, Trump is falling short in the head-to-head matchup in the November election with Biden. The former vice president leads Trump, according to the poll, 50 percent to 43 percent.\nOf course, Hillary Clinton led in many polls in 2016, and the election is still five months away. But Biden being at 50 percent and up outside the margin of error is noteworthy.\nBiden, it appears, has made inroads with some key groups, like suburban voters, whites, independents and men, and he's beating Trump in this poll by wider margins than Clinton did with women and voters under 45:\nSuburban: In 2016, according to exit polls, Trump won suburban voters by 4 points; Biden leads in this poll by 18 with them. Whites: Trump won them by 20 points; Trump leads Biden in the poll by only 5. Independents: Trump won them by 4; Biden now leads with them by the same margin. Men: Trump won them by 11, but only leads Biden by 4 in the poll. Women: Clinton won them by 13 points; Biden leads Trump by 18 with them. Under 45: Clinton won them by 14; Biden leads with them by 22.\nLike in other polls, there's also a softening for Trump with older voters. He won voters 45 and older, for example, by 8 points in 2016, but is ahead in this poll with them by just 4. And he leads with baby boomers, those age 56 to 74, by just 1 point.\nFor all the criticism Biden has received from some corners for his policies on race and criminal justice, he leads Trump 88 percent to 9 percent with black voters in the poll, nearly the exact margin Clinton received in 2016.\nBiden is also far and away seen as best, between him and Trump, to handle race relations in the country 52 percent to 34 percent.\nThe one group Biden could stand to see improvement with, however, is Latinos. He didn't have much luck with them in the primary campaign, as many chose Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders over him. And in this poll, he leads with them by 24 points, but Clinton won them by 38.\nTimes, they are a-changin'\nBy 62 percent to 28 percent, Americans view the demonstrations happening across the country as mostly legitimate protests rather than mostly people acting unlawfully. They view the demonstrations more as "protests" rather than "riots," 61 percent to 31 percent.\nAnd while a majority still have at least a "fair amount" of confidence in police in their community to treat black and white people equally, it's down 8 points from a Marist poll in 2014.\nThere are, predictably, divides along party and racial lines. When it comes to whether the protests are legitimate as opposed to people acting unlawfully, 87 percent of Democrats and 65 percent of independents say they're legitimate, while 59 percent of Republicans view them unlawful behavior.\nAlong racial lines, 77 percent of African Americans and 70 percent of Latinos view them as mostly legitimate protests, while 58 percent of whites do.\nOn whether they are protests or riots, there are similar splits — 85 percent of Democrats and 65 percent of independents see them as protests; 59 percent of Republicans say they are riots. Along racial lines, 79 percent of African Americans, 68 percent of Latinos and 56 percentof whites label them protests.\nSixty-three percent say they have either a great deal (35 percent) or a fair amount (28 percent) of confidence in the police, but that's down from 71 percent from the poll in 2014, the same year that saw the deaths of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo., and Eric Garner in New York.\nRepublicans (89 percent), independents (65 percent) and Latinos (63 percent) have a fair amount or great deal of confidence in police, but just 42 percent of Democrats and 31 percent of African Americans do. In fact, 48 percent of African Americans have very little to no confidence in the police.\nBut those numbers represent a sea change in attitudes from the 1960s when demonstrators took to the streets to fight for civil rights.\nIn 1961, Gallup found that 57 percent thought lunch counter sit-ins, "freedom buses," and other demonstrations would hurt African Americans' chances of being integrated in the South. In 1963, asked about the planned March on Washington that produced Martin Luther King's "I Have a Dream" speech, 70 percent of Americans said they had an unfavorable view of it.\nIn 1964, 74 percent said civil rights demonstrations would hurt African Americans' cause for racial equality. Later that year, 73 percent said they should stop demonstrations.\nIn 1968, after the disturbances inside and out of the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, majorities approved of the police's response to anti-war protesters, and two-thirds said Chicago Mayor Richard Daley was right in his forceful use of the police against demonstrators.\nThe survey of 1,062 adults was conducted from Tuesday, June 2 through Wednesday, June 3 by The Marist Poll and has a margin of error of 3.8 percentage points. There are 958 registered voters included in the poll with a margin of error of 4.0 percentage points. The poll also includes an oversample of nonwhite voters. All respondents were contacted with live callers on cellphones and landlines.\nCopyright 2020 NPR. To see more, visit https://www.npr.org.}}
{{In addition to those who have been charged, U.S. Capitol police say additional complaints have been submitted and investigations are ongoing.\nWASHINGTON — The United States Department of Justice said 13 individuals have been charged so far in federal court related to crimes committed at the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday.\nIn addition to those who have been charged, authorities said that additional complaints have been submitted and investigations are ongoing.\nAfter initially suggesting President Trump could be investigated for inciting a riot after seemingly egging on the crowd before they marched to the Capitol, the Acting U.S. Attorney for D.C., Michael Sherwin, seemingly backed off that stance.\n"We don't expect charges of that nature," Sherwin said.\nHere's the list of individuals and their charges in relation to the riots at the U.S. Capitol:\nCleveland Meredith was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with making interstate threats to Speaker Nancy Pelosi.\nwas charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with making interstate threats to Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Richard Barnett , of Arkansas, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful entry; violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and theft of public money, property, or records. Barnett allegedly entered a restricted area of the Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi's office\n, of Arkansas, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful entry; violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and theft of public money, property, or records.\nLonnie Coffman , of Alabama, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with possession of an unregistered firearm (destructive device) and carrying a pistol without a license. It is alleged that Coffman’s vehicle contained 11 explosive devices known as Molotov cocktails and firearms. It is further alleged he was in possession of two firearms. Coffman was arrested and is currently being held. His detention hearing is scheduled for Jan. 12, 2021.\n, of Alabama, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with possession of an unregistered firearm (destructive device) and carrying a pistol without a license. It is alleged that Coffman’s vehicle contained 11 explosive devices known as Molotov cocktails and firearms. Mark Leffingwell , was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; assault on a federal law enforcement officer; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds. Leffingwell allegedly entered the Senate side of the Capitol and when stopped by law enforcement, struck an officer in the helmet and chest. Leffingwell is currently being held and has a detention hearing in district court today.\n, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; assault on a federal law enforcement officer; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\nChristopher Alberts , of Maryland, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with carrying or having readily accessible, on the grounds of the United States Capitol Building, a firearm and ammunition. Specifically a Taurus G2C, 9mm handgun and 9mm caliber ammunition. The defendant appeared in district court and was released. He has a preliminary hearing scheduled for Jan. 28, 2021.\n, of Maryland, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with carrying or having readily accessible, on the grounds of the United States Capitol Building, a firearm and ammunition. Joshua Pruitt was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority. The defendant appeared in district court and was released. He has a preliminary hearing scheduled for Jan. 28, 2021.\nwas charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority. Matthew Council , of Florida, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds. Council allegedly unlawfully entered the Capitol building, and when stopped by law enforcement, he pushed the officer.\n, of Florida, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\nPhotos: FBI releases images of persons of interest in Capitol riot 1/11\n2/11\n3/11\n4/11\n5/11\n6/11\n7/11\n8/11\n9/11\n10/11\n11/11 1 / 11\nCindy Fitchett , of Virginia, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\n, of Virginia, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds. Michael Curzio , of Florida, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\n, of Florida, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds. Douglas Sweet , of Florida, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\n, of Florida, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds. Bradley Ruskelas , of Illinois, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\n, of Illinois, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds. Terry Brown , of Pennsylvania, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\n, of Pennsylvania, was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds. Thomas Gallagher was charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\nwas charged on Jan. 7, 2021, with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; or knowingly, with intent to impede government business or official functions, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds; and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds. Jacob Anthony Chansley, a.k.a. Jake Angeli, of Arizona, was charged with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority, and with violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds. Chansley was taken into custody Saturday, January 9, 2021.\nAdam Johnson, of Florida, was charged with one count of knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; one count of theft of government property; and one count of violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds. Johnson was arrested Friday, January 8, 2021, and is currently in custody.\nAlso charged Friday, a West Virginia State Delegate Derrick Evans who filmed himself and supporters of President Trump storming the US Capitol. Evans is now charged with entering a restricted area.\nIn addition, approximately 40 individuals have been arrested and charged in Superior Court with offenses including, but not limited to, unlawful entry, curfew violations, and firearms-related crimes, according to the U.S. Department of Justice.\nThese cases are being prosecuted by the U.S Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia and are being investigated jointly by the FBI; U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives; United States Marshals Service; U.S. Capitol Police Department; and the Metropolitan Police Department.\nAs for the death of U.S. Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick, the U.S. Attorney’s office would not discuss the investigation, which is being done jointly by the FBI and DC Police. But prosecutors said clearly that federal murder charges – carrying the potential of life in prison or the death penalty - are always in play with something like this.\nThe ATF and FBI continue to urge the public to report suspected use of explosive devices, or violent, destructive acts associated with the recent unrest. Anyone with information can call 1-888-ATF-TIPS (1-888-283-8477), email ATFTips@atf.gov or submit information anonymously via ReportIt.com.}}
{{MORNING BRIEFING\nWhat you need to know straight to your inbox,\n7am every weekday morning.}}
{{BEIRUT (CNN) - Video taken Tuesday during a wedding photo shoot in Lebanon was supposed to capture the bride's joy on her wedding day.\nInstead, it captured the terrifying moment of the massive explosion in Beirut.\nThe bride can be seen blown back by the impact of the blast.\nPhotographer Mahmoud Nakib is still rolling as he get pushed down the street by the shockwave.\nPeople are seen running for safety, including the bride and groom.\nNakib called it a nightmare scene.\nNo one in the wedding party was hurt.\nCopyright 2020 CNN. All rights reserved.}}
{{Beirut [Lebanon], Aug 11 (ANI/Sputnik): Lebanese Prime Minister Hassan Diab on Monday announced the resignation of the government in the aftermath of the devastating August 4 Beirut port explosion. In a televised address, Diab said endemic corruption was behind the deadly blast which devastated the Lebanese capital last week.\n"One of the examples of corruption has exploded in the port of Beirut," Diab said, adding that state was incapable of taking on the confessional system because the two were deeply intertwined. In the short address, the head of the government announced his resignation.\n"In the face of this reality, we take a step backwards to stand with the people to wage the battle for change with them... I am announcing today the resignation of this government," Diab said. The announcement comes after a number of high-profile resignations from the cabinet and parliament as citizens' anger seethed over the Beirut port explosion.\nA powerful explosion ripped through the Lebanese capital last week, leveling the port and killing at least 150 people. According to the authorities, the explosion was caused by 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate, confiscated by the customs services in 2014. Lebanese citizens returned to the streets and demanding justice and the removal of the entire political class. (ANI/Sputnik)}}
{{By PTI\nWASHINGTON: Several US lawmakers have demanded immediate removal of President Donald Trump from office, alleging that he incited his supporters who stormed the Capitol in an unprecedented incident that has dented the democracy of America.\nThousands of pro-Trump rioters on Wednesday stormed the US Capitol, interrupting a joint session of Congress where lawmakers were set to certify President-elect Joe Biden's win.\n"As duly-elected members of Congress, we have the awesome responsibility to report the certification of the Electoral College on January 6 as outlined in the Constitution. Today, President Trump attempted to prevent us from completing this responsibility and disrupted democracy," Congressman Steven Horsford said.\nHis words were echoed by dozens of other lawmakers.\n"For the first time since the War of 1812, the United States Capitol was breached today. The violence and insurrection that I witnessed was in direct conflict with the ideals and principles that uphold our democratic institutions, and they are unprecedented in modern times," Horsford said.\n"After today's violence, I have no other choice but to fulfil my own Constitutional responsibility and call for President Trump's removal. President Trump must be impeached and removed from office immediately," he said.\nCongressman Earl Blumenauer called for Articles of Impeachment against Trump.\nHe also urged Vice President Mike Pence and members of the US Cabinet to use the 25th Amendment of the Constitution to remove the president from office as quickly as possible.\n"Let's be clear about what happened here. The President of the United States sent a mob of domestic terrorists down Pennsylvania Avenue to attack and take over the US Capitol in order to stop the certification of an election that he lost badly," Blumenauer said, adding, "This man needs to be removed immediately and I am hopeful he will face further consequences for his actions."\nThe 25th Amendment, adopted more than 50 years ago in the wake of President Kennedy's assassination, provides a mechanism for the succession of the president for his or her replacement in the event he or she proves unfit to serve.\nUnder the amendment, the vice president and a majority of either the Cabinet or some other body designated by Congress may remove the president from office.\n"This is not a one-off incident. It is the result of years of collaboration on the part of the Republican Party, who have aided and abetted Trump's criminal attempts to destroy our republic, and the cause of democracy around the world," said Congresswoman Ilhan Omar.\n"All leaders should denounce this coup. And the President should be impeached and removed from office for his open sedition," she said.\nAccording to Congresswoman Ayanna Pressley, the acts of "domestic terrorism" at the Capitol makes it clear that Trump is a "grave threat to our democracy who must immediately be removed from office".\n"By actively inciting a violent insurrection, he has endangered the lives of members of Congress and staff, and once again demonstrated his contempt for democratic rule of law and the will of the American people," she said.\nAsserting that Trump presents a clear and direct threat to the democracy and national security, Pressley said, "Our nation cannot afford one more day with him in office. As such, Trump must immediately be impeached by the House of Representatives and removed from office by the United States Senate."\nCongressman Jimmy Gomez also demanded that Trump be removed from office as he called on Congress to finish certifying the 2020 presidential election results immediately.\n"If Vice President Mike Pence and the Trump cabinet lack the sound judgement and moral fortitude to exercise the 25th Amendment, I respectfully call on my House Judiciary Committee colleagues to quickly introduce articles of impeachment against the president," he said.\nPresident Trump must be removed from office immediately.\nHe is unfit to lead the nation, said Congresswoman Kathy Manning.\nMeanwhile, 17 House Judiciary Democrats in a statement called on Vice President Pence to use the 25th Amendment to remove Trump from office.\n"President Trump is a rogue Commander-in-Chief who represents a credible threat to our national security, our democratic institutions and the people of this country," said Congressman Anthony Brown.\n"Today, Americans and people around the globe witnessed the shameful display of the president encouraging a mob to incite rebellion and overturn the results of a free and fair election. President Trump has once again betrayed his oath of office and demonstrated his extreme unfitness to lead. We cannot have a man actively orchestrating sedition leading our nation's government for another fourteen days, let alone giving orders to our men and women in uniform," he said.\nBrown said as the world's most powerful democracy, the US cannot turn a blind eye to Trump's dangerous behaviour to undermine the Constitution and subvert the will of the American people.\n"We cannot wait until January 20. Donald Trump is a subversive and must be removed from office," he said.\nCongresswoman Sara Jacobs and Congressman Don Beyer also called for the immediate impeachment of Trump and the expulsion of those members of Congress who continue to stand in the way of the certification of the free and fair election.}}
{{Montgomery County Jail/Criminal Complaint\nA member of the far-right paramilitary group the Oath Keepers who’s been charged with conspiring to storm the Capitol was ready “for violence” during the deadly riot and had plans for a “further insurrection,” federal prosecutors said Friday.\n“The plan was never for peaceful protest,” a Virginia prosecutor said during a detention hearing for Donovan Crowl, a former U.S. Marine. “The Oath Keepers arrived in D.C. prepared for violence.”\nCrowl, 50, is one of three members of the right-wing group who’ve been charged with conspiring to disrupt the congressional session to certify President-elect Joe Biden’s electoral victory. Thomas Edward Caldwell, 65, an apparent leader of the Oath Keepers, and Jessica Watkins, a 38-year-old Army veteran, have also been charged with conspiracy. All three have since been ordered held without bail.\nRioter Charged for Beating D.C. Police Officer With Hockey Stick During Capitol Insurrection: DOJ\n“I note that the charges against the defendant are very serious,” Magistrate Judge Sharon L. Ovington said Friday. “The government alleges that [Crowl] conspired with others in advance to forcibly storm the United States Capitol to impede or injure officers in order to obstruct an official proceeding. His vision is seen on video stating, ‘We overran the Capitol.’ His criminal history includes alcohol and violence-related offenses. He also has demonstrated non-compliance with court order supervision.”\nFederal authorities have described the Oath Keepers as “a large but loosely organized collection of [the] militia who believe that the federal government has been co-opted by a shadowy conspiracy that is trying to strip American citizens of their rights” and who heavily recruit former military, law enforcement, and first responders.\nDuring the Friday hearing, prosecutors said Crowl took his organization’s beliefs seriously, as one of his main objectives when he drove halfway across the country to join the riots was to hunt “for ANTIFA members.”\nStory continues\n“[Crowl’s] been preparing for literal war because that’s what his organization told him to do,” the prosecutor added.\nA majority of the more than 100 rioters who have been charged in the siege face minor charges. The trio’s conspiracy charges were the first of their kind in the wide-ranging investigation into the insurrection, and imply federal authorities are tracking the rioters’ efforts to coordinate in the days before the storming of the Capitol.\nProsecutors also revealed on Friday that while exercising a search warrant at Watkins’ home, investigators found directions on how to make explosives—suggesting the Oath Keepers intended to do further violence.\nThe Oath Keepers allegedly began plotting at least five days before the insurrection, according to court papers. In a Jan. 1 Facebook message, Caldwell admitted he was looking for housing for several individuals at a Comfort Inn in Ballston, Virginia.\nThe hotel, which is eight miles from the Capitol, “would allow us to go hunting at night if we wanted to,” Caldwell said in a Facebook message to Watkins, according to the affidavit.\n‘I Am Such an Instigator’: Oath Keeper Leader Charged With Conspiracy in Capitol Riots\n“I don’t know if Stewie has even gotten out his call to arms, but it’s a little friggin late. This is one we are doing on our own. We will link up with the north carolina [sic] crew,” Caldwell continues in the Jan. 1 post, apparently referring to Oath Keepers founder Stewart Rhodes.\nWatkins, a 38-year-old Army veteran, allegedly breached the Capitol with other members of the Ohio State Regular Militia, the far-right group she founded in 2019. Watkins’ militia is a subset of the Oath Keepers, prosecutors have said.\nCrowl’s involvement in the insurrection has been documented on social media—and he gave an interview with the New Yorker in which he identified himself as both an Oath Keeper and a member of the Ohio State Regular Militia. In the interview, Crowl “admitted that he attended events representing those groups to include the incursion of the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021,” according to court papers. Crowl also claimed he had been drinking and went to the Capitol to “do security” for “V.I.Ps” but declined to name the individuals.\nThe Oath Keepers are among several extremists who have been charged for participating in the violent riot that left five people dead. Several Proud Boys, including Dominic “Spazzo” Pezzola, who allegedly smashed a window at the Capitol with a police shield, and members of the Three Percenters have also been arrested.\nA federal judge on Friday ordered Robert Gieswein, an alleged member of the Three Percenters militia, to be detained pending a trial for his role in the riots, saying he had “prepared for battle.” Prosecutors said Friday Giewswein used bear spray on Capitol cops during the riots before shoving a bike rack into the officers.\nRead more at The Daily Beast.\nGot a tip? Send it to The Daily Beast here\nGet our top stories in your inbox every day. Sign up now!\nDaily Beast Membership: Beast Inside goes deeper on the stories that matter to you. Learn more.}}
{{Article content\nBad behaviour in Washington should lead to a flight ban, says the head of America’s largest flight attendants union.\nSara Nelson, president of the Association of Flight Attendants, said in a statement that “some of the people who traveled in our planes (Tuesday) participated in the insurrection at the Capitol today. “Their violent and seditious actions at the Capitol today create further concern about their departure from the DC area.”\nWe apologize, but this video has failed to load.\ntap here to see other videos from our team. Try refreshing your browser, or U.S. flight attendant's union wants Capitol rioters banned from flying Back to video\nNelson wants rioters banned from flying after one projected a “Trump 2020” image on a flight to D.C. a day before the globally-shunned incident.\n“Acts against our democracy, our government and the freedom we claim as Americans must disqualify these individuals from the freedom of flight,” Nelson said in the statement.\n“The mob mentality behavior that took place on several flights to the DC area yesterday was unacceptable and threatened the safety and security of every single person onboard,” added Nelson, whose union represents some 50,000 attendants at United, Alaska and more than a dozen other airlines, CNBC reported.}}
{{A top member of Donald Trump’s Republican Party says the soon-to-be-former president is to blame for provoking his supporters to storm the US Capitol.\nMitch McConnell used his last speech as Senate majority leader to lambast Mr Trump over the Capitol riot that resulted in five deaths.\n“The mob was fed lies,” Mr McConnell said, referring to Mr Trump’s insistence the presidential election was rigged.\nHe said the giant mob that attacked the Capitol this month was “provoked by the president and other powerful people”.\n“And they tried to use fear and violence to stop a specific proceeding of the first branch of the federal government which they did not like,” Mr McConnell said on the floor of the chamber.\nThe Republican had been referring to Mr Trump’s inflammatory speech at a “Save America” rally near the White House on January 6.\nMr McConnell reassured the Senate that Joe Biden’s inauguration ceremony at the Capitol will be “safe and successful”.\nIn his 70-minute speech on the morning of the riots, Mr Trump had called on his supporters to march to the Capitol building and had said “if you don’t fight like hell, you’re not going to have a country any more”.\nMr Trump is accused of inciting the insurrection with fiery rhetoric that sought to delegitimise the victory of Mr Biden in the presidential election, including through allegations of voter fraud.\nLast week, the outgoing leader became the first US president to be impeached twice, after an historic vote in the House of Representatives.\nMr McConnell noted the House of Representatives has not yet transmitted the article of impeachment to the Senate.\nBut it seems likely to soon hold a trial for Mr Trump.\nOnce the formal article of impeachment is sent over from the House to to the Senate, the trial can begin, with a two-thirds majority needed to convict.\nThe Senate is set to be split 50-50 as of Wednesday, handing control of the chamber to Democrats.\nVice president-elect Kamala Harris, a Democrat, will be the tie breaking vote in the event of split decisions, giving her party an edge.\nIt is unclear how many Republicans might join the Democrats for such a vote, which would also bar Mr Trump from holding office again.\nMr Biden will be sworn in as the 46th president on Wednesday at noon local time in Washington DC (4am Thursday, Australian eastern daylight savings time).\n-with AAP}}
{{UNITED NATIONS, Aug 05 (APP):The United Nations is “actively assisting” in the response to the horrific explosions that ripped through the port area of Beirut on Tuesday, reportedly leaving dozens dead and thousands wounded, among them some UN naval peacekeepers, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said Wednesday.\nA statement from a UN spokesperson said that Guterres expressed his deepest condolences to the families of the victims, as well as to the people and Government of Lebanon, following the horrific explosions in the capital.\nThe UN chief wished a speedy recovery to the injured, including several UN personnel working in Lebanon.\nNews reports suggest that along with dozens of deaths, perhaps several thousand people were injured in the massive blasts, which sent shock waves across the bustling city of Beirut, bursting out windows and shaking buildings. The cause of the explosions has not yet been confirmed.\n“The United Nations remains committed to supporting Lebanon at this difficult time and is actively assisting in the response to this incident,” the UN chief said.\nSeparately,Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, the President of the UN General Assembly, also extended his deepest condolences to the families who lost loved ones in the explosion in Beirut today and wished a speedy recovery for the injured.\n“Mr. Muhammad-Bande would like to reiterate his solidarity with Lebanon during this time,” said the Assembly President’s Spokesperson.\nMeanwhile, earlier in the day the UN Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) said that as a result of a huge explosion, a ship from its Maritime Task Force docked in the port was damaged, leaving some UNIFIL naval peacekeepers injured – some of them seriously.\n“UNIFIL is transporting the injured peacekeepers to the nearest hospitals for medical treatment. UNIFIL is currently assessing the situation, including the scale of the impact on UNIFIL personnel,” said a statement from the operation, which was set up in 1978 initially to confirm the withdrawal of Israeli forces from southern Lebanon, as well as to ensure the area returned to Beirut’s control.\nUNIFIL Head of Mission and Force Commander Major General Del Col said: “We are with the people and the Government of Lebanon during this difficult time and stand ready to help and provide any assistance and support.”}}
{{BOSTON (AP) — Two Massachusetts residents, including a town meeting member who organized buses to take Trump supporters to Washington ahead of the siege at the U.S. Capitol, were arrested Tuesday in connection with the riot, authorities said.\nSuzanne Ianni, a 59-year-old Natick town meeting member, and Mark Sahady, 46, of Malden, were arrested by federal agents at their homes, the FBI said. They are charged with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds, authorities said.\nAuthorities said Ianni is involved with Super Happy Fun America, a group that organized a “straight pride” parade in Boston in 2019 that was meant to be a counterpoint to gay pride parades. She worked with the group to organize buses to take people to Washington ahead of the rally and riot on Jan. 6, authorities said. Sahady is the group's vice president, authorities said in court documents.\nBoth of them were identified in a picture of a group of people that Super Happy Fun America posted on Twitter with the caption: “Bus 1 of 11 coming to Washington DC See you there!" authorities said. They were also photographed together inside the Capitol, authorities said.\nAn email seeking comment was sent to Ianni's lawyer. An attorney for Sahady declined to comment.}}
{{The Daily Star's FREE newsletter is spectacular! Sign up today for the best stories straight to your inbox Sign up today! Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email\nA former Miss Universe finalist was left "shaken" after she was chased by a protester in Washington DC during pro-Trump riots through the US capitol.\nIrish-American model Fionnghuala O'Reilly, who works for NASA as a datanaut, was out for a run as the riots at Capitol Hill began, and was forced to run away from a man "yelling" at her for wearing a mask.\nShe shared footage from the terrifying encounter on her Instgram page, writing: “I’m absolutely appalled. I’m still shaken.\n“This morning, a man followed me, yelled at me, and chased me down because I wore a mask while on a jog.\n“I had to run away from him to get away.”\n(Image: Instagram)\nThe man can be heard shouting at her about his grandmother in the clip, saying: “My grandmother is 75 with diabetes and she beat Covid, but here you are, running around with a mask on and [you’re] like 33.\n“Videotape me, I don’t care,” he added before it cut off as he ran towards her.\nThe former pageant queen, who was crowned Miss Universe Ireland in 2019 currently lives in Washington DC, where she is a Correspondent with the CBS show Mission Unstoppable.\nCondemning the acts of violence and chaos in recent days, she said the attacks have gone too far and pleaded with her fans and followers to stay safe at home.\nShe wrote: "I live downtown. This violence, this chaos is disgraceful. Our city is being terrorized.\n"This morning, a man followed me, yelled at me, and chased me down because I wore a mask while on a jog.\n(Image: Zoe Watson )\n"I had to run away from him to get away. The attacks have only gotten worse.\n"This has completely gone too far. If you are in the city, please stay safe and stay home."\nHer followers were very concerned for her welfare following the incident.\nOne wrote in reply: "I’m so sorry you had to go through this, Fig. Glad you made it home safely."\nAnother commented: "Deplorable behaviour. I hope you're ok. Be careful."\n"Omg Fig I’m so sorry. Please stay safe. It’s crazy what it’s happening over there. Take care! Sending love," a third person wrote.}}
{{https://www.fairfieldcitizenonline.com/news/article/Alert-Lebanon-putting-unspecified-number-of-15460534.php\nAlert: Lebanon putting unspecified number of Beirut port officials under house arrest after huge explosion killed more than 100}}
{{THE Trump campaign is "trying to move up the final debate against Joe Biden or add an extra face-off before the election."\nThe president's personal attorney, Rudy Giuliani, made the request to the Commission on Presidential Debates on Wednesday.\n⚠️ Follow our US election 2020 live blog for the latest news & updates\n2 The Trump campaign wants to move the debate date Credit: Getty Images - Getty\n2 The final debate against Biden is currently set to take place on October 22 Credit: AP:Associated Press\nThe former New York City Mayor has asked for the Commission to "modernize its line-up" to include an additional early debate in September.\nHowever if the request for a fourth debate is refused, the lawyer "strongly urges" the Commission to move the date of the final debate forward.\n"The solution is easy: add an additional debate in early September before the first ballots are sent out in North Carolina on September 4, 2020, or, move up the final debate currently scheduled for October 22, 2020 into the first week in September," Giuliani wrote.\nHe reasoned: "By the time of the first presidential debate on September 29, 2020, at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio, as many as eight million Americans in 16 states will have already started voting."\nGiuliani continued: "Simply put, the Commission’s current approach is an outdated dinosaur and not reflective of voting realities in 2020."\nMost read in News Graphic Warning LUCKY TO BE ALIVE Boy, 6, savaged by ‘loveable’ pet dog who ripped his face apart FOOT IN THEIR MOUTH Amazon REMOVES leather dress shoe that had N-word in its description VICTIM'S PAIN Epstein was turned on by my terror - pals like Andrew must do the right thing BEACH WARS Acrobat handcuffed by cops after ‘some Karen’ called police over skimpy outfit ROAD RAGE Horrifying moment 'drunk' Lyft passenger rips down partition & chokes driver HOT TEMPER Woman throws COFFEE in man’s face because he has no mask, then plays victim\nTim Murtaugh, communications director for the Trump campaign, told Axios that the news that Biden will no longer travel to Milwaukee for the Democratic National Convention has led them to believe that "he'll try to weasel out of debates."\nOrganizers said that there had been ongoing consultation with public officials and experts on whether the presidential hopeful should travel to accept his nomination.\nThe decision for speakers to not travel to Wisconsin was made "in order to prevent risking the health of our host community as well as the convention’s production teams, security officials, community partners, media and others necessary to orchestrate the event."}}
{{(AP) - A Florida man allegedly photographed grinning as he carried away House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s lectern after a mob of President Donald Trump’s supporters stormed the nation’s Capitol is among the latest people charged in Wednesday’s mayhem that left five people dead.\nAdam Johnson, 36, of Parrish, Florida, was arrested Friday night on a federal warrant and was being held Saturday without bail in Pinellas County, Florida, according to jail records that do not show if he has an attorney.\nA Trump supporter carries a podium around the U.S. Capitol after protesters breached the Capitol Building during a joint session of #Congress in Washington, DC 📷: @WinMc pic.twitter.com/lsF7wg6BI5 — Getty Images News (@GettyImagesNews) January 6, 2021\nJohnson is a married father of five who was quickly identified on social media by local residents as the man in a photo smiling as he walked through the Capitol rotunda carrying Pelosi’s lectern, The Bradenton Herald reported.\nHe was charged Saturday with one count of knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority, one count of theft of government property and one count of violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\nAdam Johnson, 36, was booked into the Pinellas County Jail in Florida on Friday. He was photographed carrying House Speaker Pelosi's podium. (Pinellas County Sheriff's Office via CNN Newsource)\nBefore being deleted or taken down, Johnson posted on social media that he was in Washington, D.C., during Wednesday’s riot and included disparaging comments about the Black Lives Matter movement, according to The Bradenton Herald.\nAn Arizona man seen in photos and video of the mob wearing a costume with a painted face and a fur hat topped by horns was also taken into custody Saturday. Jacob Anthony Chansley, more commonly known as Jake Angeli, had become a staple in his costume at pro-Trump protests across the country.\nHe is charged with knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority, and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.\nChansley is among dozens of people arrested in the wake of the Capitol invasion by a large mob of supporters enraged over Trump’s election loss who forced lawmakers to halt their voting to affirm President-elect Joe Biden’s victory and go into hiding for hours. The rioters took over the House and Senate chambers, smashed windows and waved Trump, American and Confederate flags.\nFILE - In this Jan. 6, 2021, file photo supporters of President Donald Trump are confronted by U.S. Capitol Police officers outside the Senate Chamber inside the Capitol in Washington. An Arizona man seen in photos and video of the mob wearing a fur hat with horns was also charged Saturday in Wednesday's chaos. Jacob Anthony Chansley, who also goes by the name Jake Angeli, was taken into custody Saturday, Jan. 9. (Manuel Balce Ceneta | AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta, File)\nBy Saturday, prosecutors had filed 17 cases in federal district court and 40 others in the District of Columbia Superior Court for a variety of offenses ranging from assaulting police officers to entering restricted areas of the U.S. Capitol, stealing federal property and threatening lawmakers.\nProsecutors said additional cases remained under seal, dozens of other people were being sought by federal agents and the U.S. attorney in Washington vowed Friday that “all options were on the table” for charges, including possibly sedition.\nOther notable arrests in the Capitol invasion include:\n— Richard Barnett, an Arkansas man who was shown in a widely seen photo sitting in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office with his boots on a desk after the storming of the Capitol, was arrested Friday by the FBI. Barnett, 60, turned himself in to FBI agents at the Benton County Sheriff’s Office in Bentonville, Arkansas. He is jailed in the Washington County Detention Center in nearby Fayetteville, Arkansas, without bond pending an initial court appearance, FBI Little Rock spokesman Connor Hagan said. No attorney is listed in online jail records for the Gravette, Arkansas, man.\n— Derrick Evans, a West Virginia state lawmaker who posted videos online showing himself pushing his way inside the Capitol, was arrested Friday by the FBI at his home and charged with entering restricted federal property. In the videos, Evans is seen fist bumping a police officer and then milling around the rotunda as he shouted, “Our house!” He’s facing bipartisan calls for his resignation as federal prosecutors step up their pursuit of violent perpetrators.\n___\nAssociated Press writer Michael Balsamo contributed to this report. Callahan reported from Indianapolis.\nCopyright 2021 CNN Newsource. All rights reserved.}}
{{My social media feed is packed with fellow conservative activists and acquaintances who believe they have uncovered “the truth” about a couple of the most visible rioters from the Capitol today: they weren’t MAGA supporters; they’re really Antifa and Black Lives Matter (BLM) agent provocateurs! Dozens of my friends have posted photos “proving” that these guys are with Antifa or BLM. Hundreds of thousands of people (by this point, likely millions) have shared these photos on social media. It sure looks bad. Just take a look at the photos above and below! Clearly these guys weren’t MAGA!\nOr…were they?\nIt’s complete BS. Neither of the men are BLM or Antifa. Rather, they are both well-known far-right activists and Trump supporters. There is absolutely no doubt about it. Here’s the proof.\nThe first photo at the top of this article was shared by pro-Trump lawyer Lin Wood (Sidney Powell’s right-hand man, who MC’d the Stop the Steal rally in Georgia) on Twitter. It seems to provide slam-dunk evidence that the man in the photo on the right (which comes from phillyantifa.org) and the man in the photo on the left (which was taken today at the Capitol) are the same man. And you know what? THEY ARE. The same man, that is.\nThe man’s name is Jason Tankersley. The photo does come from PhillyAntifa.org. Here’s a link to the photo on their website. But here’s the thing: The photo comes from an article about how Tankersley is a prominent white supremacist skinhead.\nThat’s right. Wood simply cut and pasted the photo from phillyantifa.org in a way that deceptively left the impression that Tankersley is an Antifa activist. In fact, the Antifa website that contains his photo was exposing Tankerlsey for being a skinhead.\nSo what was Wood thinking? Well, Wood is the same guy who called for Pence to be executed by firing squad a few days ago. So, you know, he’s not exactly the cream of the crop of society, and not entirely trustworthy.\nSo what about the other photo? The one of the guy in the Viking hat with his face painted? I mean: hell, he was at a BLM protest in Tempe, wasn’t he? Uh, yeah. He was. As a QAnon supporting counter-protester.\nHere’s the uncropped photo of the man from the BLM protest in Tempe:\nHis name is Jake Angeli. He’s a prominent QAnon and Trump supporter. You can read all about him in this article in AZCentral:\nQUOTE:\nJake Angeli walked the lines of people at Veterans Memorial Coliseum waiting to see Trump on Feb. 20. On his head was a fur bonnet from which protruded two horns. His face was painted black and white. He was shirtless and shouting. He carried a sign that read: “Q sent me.” “You all know who Q is?” he yelled. Occasionally, he stopped and answered his own question, explaining Q was a government agent who wanted to “take the country back” from pedophiles and globalists.\nThe claim that these two men were Antifa or BLM provocateurs is spreading like wildfire. Lin Wood’s Twitter post claiming that Jason Tankersley is an Antifa activist has over 41 thousand retweets, and over 70 thousand likes right now. Other posts Wood has posted about Jake Angeli, claiming he’s a BLM activist, have also been liked and shared tens of thousands of times.\nAnd that’s just one of the many, many people who are posting these false claims.\nThey are a lie. Don’t contribute to misinformation by sharing these false claims. Fact-check.\nIt is incredible to me, as a committed conservative, to see so many of my fellow conservatives unthinkingly sharing these claims. From the time the first of these posts appeared on my social feed, to the time when my feeds on Facebook and Twitter were flooded with these claims, was a matter of less than an hour. It took me only a couple of minutes to track down the identities of the two men. Most people who believe these claims will never learn that they are wrong. When they see the inevitable Facebook “fact checks”, they will simply dismiss them as liberal propaganda.\nA lie gets halfway around the world before the truth even gets its shoes on. We can do better than this.}}
{{WASHINGTON (AP) — Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell opened the Senate on Tuesday saying the pro-Trump mob that stormed the Capitol was “fed lies” by the president and others in the deadly riot to overturn Democrat Joe Biden’s election.\nMcConnell’s remarks are his most severe and public rebuke of outgoing President Donald Trump. The Republican leader vowed a “safe and successful” inauguration of Biden on Wednesday at the Capitol, which is under extremely tight security.\n“The mob was fed lies,” McConnell said. “They were provoked by the president and other powerful people, and they tried to use fear and violence to stop a specific proceeding of the first branch of the federal government which they did not like.”\nMcConnell said after Biden’s inauguration on the Capitol’s West Front — what he noted former President George H.W. Bush has called “democracy’s front porch” — “We’ll move forward.”\nTrump’s last full day in office Tuesday is also senators’ first day back since the deadly Capitol siege, an unparalleled time of transition as the Senate presses ahead to his impeachment trial and starts confirmation hearings on President-elect Joe Biden’s Cabinet.\nThree new Democratic senators-elect are set to be sworn into office Wednesday shortly after Biden’s inauguration at the Capitol, which is under extreme security since the bloody pro-Trump riot. The new senators’ arrival will give the Democrats the most slim majority, a 50-50 divided Senate chamber, with the new vice president, Kamala Harris, swearing them in and serving as an eventual tie-breaking vote.\nSenate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer are set to confer Tuesday about the arrangements ahead, according to a person familiar with the planning and granted anonymity to discuss it.\nThe start of the new session of Congress will force senators to come to terms with the post-Trump era, a transfer of power like almost none other in the nation’s history. Senators are returning to a Capitol shattered from the riot, but also a Senate ground to a halt by the lawmakers’ own extreme partisanship.\nRepublican senators, in particular, face a daunting choice of whether to convict Trump of inciting the insurrection, the first impeachment trial of a president no longer in office, in a break with the defeated president who continues to hold great sway over the party but whose future is uncertain. Senators are also being asked to start confirming Biden’s Cabinet nominees and consider passage of a sweeping new $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief bill.\nIn opening remarks at his confirmation hearing, Biden’s nominee for secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Alejandro Mayorkas, vowed to get to the bottom of the “horrifying” attack on the Capitol.\nMayorkas told the Senate Homeland Security Committee that if confirmed he would do everything possible to ensure “the desecration of the building that stands as one of the three pillars of our democracy, and the terror felt by you, your colleagues, staff, and everyone present, will not happen again.”\nFive of Biden’s nominees are set for hearings Tuesday as the Senate prepares for swift confirmation of some as soon as the president-elect takes office, as is often done on Inauguration Day, particularly for the White House’s national security team.\nBiden wants the Senate to toggle between confirming his nominees, considering COVID relief and holding Trump accountable with the impeachment trial, a tall order for an institution that typically runs more slowly and with bitter confrontations.\nTrump’s impeachment is forcing Republican senators to re-evaluate their relationship with the outgoing president who is charged with inciting a mob of supporters to storm the Capitol as Congress was counting the Electoral College votes to confirm Biden’s election. A protester died during the riot and a police officer died later of injuries; three other people involved died of medical emergencies.\nThe House impeached Trump last week on a sole charge, incitement of insurrection, making him the only president to be twice impeached. He had been impeached in 2019 over relations with Ukraine and was acquitted in 2020 by the Senate.\nSchumer, who is poised to become the majority leader, and McConnell are set to meet Tuesday to discuss the power-sharing agreement and schedule ahead — for Trump’s trial, confirming Biden’s nominees and consideration of the incoming president’s $1.9 trillion COVID relief package.\nThree Democratic senators, Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff of Georgia, and Alex Padilla of California, are to be sworn into office Wednesday, according to the person granted anonymity to discuss planning.\nWarnock and Ossoff defeated Republican incumbents in this month’s runoff elections. Georgia’s secretary of state is expected to certify the election results Tuesday. Padilla was tapped by California’s governor to fill the remainder of Harris’ Senate term.\nThe Senate leaders also must negotiate a power-sharing agreement for the Senate that was last split so narrowly nearly 20 years ago, as they divvy up committee assignments and other resources.}}
{{Michael Ealy is back with a brand new movie, ‘Fatale’. After a wild one-night stand, a successful sports agent watches his perfect life slowly disappear when he discovers the sexy and mysterious woman he risked everything for is a determined police detective who entangles him in her latest investigation. He talks about the film and explains the next villain role he takes, he wants it to be the most memorable bad guy of all-time! Since he is from Washington D.C., he weighed in on what happened in his hometown this week, and his reasoning why it doesn’t necessarily surprise him. ‘Fatale’ is out now!\nLIKE US ON FACEBOOK. FOLLOW US ON TWITTER AND INSTAGRAM. SUBSCRIBE TO OUR YOUTUBE.\nText “HUSTLE” to 71007 to join The Morning Hustle Show mobile club for exclusive news. (Terms and conditions).\nHEAD BACK TO THEMORNINGHUSTLE.COM HOME PAGE\nMichael Ealy Discusses New Film, ‘Fatale’ & Why What Happened At The Capitol Doesn’t Surprise Him was originally published on themorninghustle.com\nAlso On Power 107.5:}}
{{In the wake of Wednesday’s Capitol riots NBC News ran a column suggesting many people hope that the riotous onslaught taught Congress how school shootings feel.\nNBC News pulled together various tweets, one in which an individual wrote, “Now Senators know what it’s like for kids who experience school shootings.”\nAnother Twitter user, Boise School District Trustee. expressed hope that “lawmakers remember the fear they felt today as they cowered under their desks and locked themselves in their offices when the next school shooting occurs.”\nDr. Abbie Guttenberg Youkilis, aunt of Parkland shooting victim Jamie Guttenberg, wrote, “Seeing fearful members of Congress barricaded in their offices is reminiscent of what happens during a school shooting. I hope they remember the terror they felt next time they have a chance to support gun safety.”\nOne Tik-Tok user wrote, “Dear congress, just lock the door, turn off the lights, and huddle in the corner. I don’t know, maybe they will just move on to the next room. sincerely, the K-12 American student body.”\nThe Capitol was protected by numerous police officers and other law enforcement personnel when the riots occurred, yet barricades were crossed, windows shattered, and walls scaled. On Thursday, one day after the riots, United States Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund resigned in response to the outcry over how security was hand.\nFox 5 DC reported that one protester was shot and killed by Capitol police officer during the riots. Breitbart News noted the woman was a 14-year Air Force veteran named Ashli Babbitt.\nRep. Thomas Massie (R-KY) emerged from the riots contending that the riots showed the importance of individual Reps. being able to be armed to defend themselves. He tweeted, “The next member who argues Congressmen shouldn’t be allowed to carry firearms at work needs to be laughed out of the Capitol.”\nMassie added, “Several of us were glad to be armed while barricaded for hours in our offices with our staff.”\nAWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. You can sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.}}
{{In times of social crises in America, big tech billionaires are often amongst the first to speak up—though how they do so varies. Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk, unlike many of his peers, didn’t directly speak about the riot that erupted in Washington, D.C. on Wednesday afternoon. But the second-richest man in the world did make it clear that he was watching the news and indeed had a strong opinion about the surreal events that transpired at the U.S. Capitol.\nLate Wednesday night, after police had cleared protestors from the Capital ground to allow Congress to resume vote counting and certifying election results, Musk tweeted a meme showing bricks lining up like dominoes. The smallest front brick was labeled “a website to rate women on campus”—a reference to the early version of Facebook—and the largest tile in the back was superimposed with a tweet by The New York Times Magazine correspondent Mark Leibovich that read: “The Capitol seems to be under the control of a man in a viking hat.”\nHis message was clear: The shocking rampage on Wednesday was the culmination of years of political and ideological polarization fueled by social media platforms, primarily Facebook. “This is called the domino effect,” Musk tweeted alongside the meme.\nThis is called the domino effect pic.twitter.com/qpbEW54RvM — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) January 7, 2021\nIt’s not the first time the Tesla CEO openly expressed his dislike for Facebook.\nIn February, he called Facebook “lame” in a tweet and urged people to delete their accounts. Three months later, he tweeted “Facebook sucks” after the company’s artificial intelligence lead criticized his lack of knowledge about A.I.\nOn Wednesday night, Facebook removed a video released earlier in the day of President Trump spouting claims of election fraud. The platform also blocked the president from posting content for 24 hours, then extended it for at least two weeks, and perhaps indefinitely. Twitter blocked Trump’s account for 12 hours.\nSeveral big tech CEOs have publicly condemned the violence during the protest. In a staff memo, Google CEO Sundar Pichai called it the “antithesis of democracy.” Apple’s Tim Cook said that “those responsible for this insurrection should be held to account.” And Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg called the event “a dark moment in our nation’s history” in a letter to employees.\nZuckerberg’s decision to suspend Trump came after years of allegations that Facebook has been soft on Trump and that it has programmed its algorithm to prioritize right-wing media outlets and personalities. It has also received heat for providing a platform for the extremist groups responsible for the riots on Wednesday. In addition to using Facebook to grow their influence, the rioters have coordinated attacks on the site, including planning the attack via publicly viewable groups and events that were still up on Facebook on Wednesday night.\nFacebook employees have also expressed anger at the decisions, forcing Zuckerberg to explain why he did not suspend former Trump advisor and prominent white nationalist Steve Bannon for urging the beheading of Dr. Anthony Fauci and FBI Director Christopher Wray.}}
{{“It’s terrible, it’s terrible to be black, to say that... It is. There’s so much racism out here, it’s pathetic ... It’s like there’s no justice in the world for us. It’s like we’re a piece of a bean in a pie just getting picked off, just no one cares.\nAfter the jury got the Chauvin case Monday, Judge Peter Cahill rejected a defense request for a mistrial based in part on comments from California Rep. Maxine Waters, who said “we’ve got to get more confrontational” if Chauvin isn’t convicted of murder.\nThe judge called her comments “abhorrent” and “disrespectful to the rule of law and to the judicial branch” and told Chauvin’s attorney that Waters “may have given you something on appeal that may result in this whole trial being overturned.”\nStill, two defense attorneys in Minnesota said they consider a successful appeal over remarks like Waters’ or Biden’s extremely unlikely.\n“Anybody who thinks undue publicity is going to get a case reversed in this day and age is just wrong,” said Joe Friedberg, who is unconnected to the case. “Just from a pragmatic standpoint, with social media, I don’t think it can ever be done again.”}}
{{Today’s Headlines\nThe most important news stories of the day, curated by Post editors and delivered every morning.\nBy signing up you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy}}
{{click to enlarge Ford Fischer / News2Share\nTwo members of a self-indentified Ohio 'militia' have been arrested and charged by the Feds for their participation in the Capitol riot on Jan 6.Jessica Watkins and Donovan Crowl, both of Champaign County and both of whom are members of the Oath Keepers, a "large but loosely organized collection of militia who believe that the federal government has been coopted by a shadowy conspiracy that is trying to strip American citizens of their rights," have been charged with entering a restricted building or grounds; violent entry or disorderly conduct; and obstruction of an official proceeding.Watkins was interviewed by the Ohio Capital Journal last week.“To me, it was the most beautiful thing I ever saw until we started hearing glass smash. That’s when we knew things had gotten really bad," she said, noting that, “I don’t want to call it a false flag, but it was some people hijacking what started off as a peaceful movement.”“I didn’t commit a crime. I didn’t destroy anything. I didn’t wreck anything. If they want to charge me, that’s fine, but you’re welcome,” she said. Charging documents cite the interview, evidence from videos and photographs, as well as posts made by Watkins on Parler, the recently deplatformed network favored by the right in which she wrote, "“Me before forcing entry into the Capitol Building. #stopthesteal2 #stormthecapitol #oathkeepers #ohiomilitia,” and, "Yeah. We stormed the Capitol today. Teargassed, the whole, 9. Pushed our way into the Rotunda. Made it into the Senate even. The news is lying (even Fox) about the Historical Events we created today.”Crowl, another member of the militia and a former Marine, was charged with similar evidence in addition to information from an interview he did with The New Yorker . He, "confirmed to the writer that he entered the Capitol, saying that he went to Washington, D.C., to 'do security' for'“V.I.P.s' whom he declined to name. CROWL also stated to the writer that his intentions had been peaceful, and that he had never been violent, claiming 'we protected the fucking Capitol Hill police.' He declined to substantiate the claim during theinterview. CROWL at the same time admitted during this interview that he 'expelled three fucking people' whom he said had been injured. He further elaborated about 'patriots [who] dragged this fucking maggot off the wall and started beating his ass.'”The Ohio State Regular Militia was formed in 2019 by Watkins and has appeared at various protests in Ohio.In her interview with the Ohio Capital Journal, "Watkins dismissed characterizations of the riots as insurrectionist or violent as media spin. She said she and several other militia members who she entered the complex with saw the invaders marveling at the art and architecture of the Capitol like tourists."}}
{{New York, Jan. 7, 2021 U.S. Transportation Secretary, Elaine Chao, has announced her resignation over Wednesday’s breach of the Capital Hill by supporters of President Donald Trump.\nShe is the first cabinet member to quit over the incident, which drew outrage from within the country and around the world.\n“Yesterday, our country experienced a traumatic and avoidable event as supporters of the president stormed the Capitol building following a rally he addressed.\n“As I am sure is the awe with many of you, it has deeply troubled me in a way that I simply cannot set aside.\n“Today, I am announcing my resignation as U.S. Secretary of Transportation, to take effect on Jan. 11, 2021,” Chao, wife of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, said.\nThe News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that several White House officials have resigned since armed Trump supporters stormed the building on Wednesday, forcing a lockdown.\nCongress was meeting to certify the Nov. 3 election won by former Vice President Joe Biden when the mob struck, shortly after Trump addressed protesters at a rally in Washington.\nEarlier on Thursday, U.S. Deputy National Security Adviser, Matt Pottinger, resigned over the incident, the National Security Adviser, Rober O’Brien, confirmed in a tweet.\n“Asking Matt Pottinger to serve as my deputy was my first act as NSA and it turned out to be one of my best decisions.\n“As he heads West to rejoin his family in beautiful Utah, Matt does so with my appreciation for a job well done and with my enduring friendship,” O’Brien said.\nOn Wednesday night, Stephanie Grisham, Chief of Staff to the U.S. First Lady, Melania Trump, and Sarah Matthews, White House Deputy Press Secretary, resigned.\nAlso on Thursday, Mick Mulvaney, the president’s former acting chief of staff and budget director, stepped down as special envoy to Northern Ireland.\nLike this: Like Loading...}}
{{Getty\nReddit has banned the subreddit r/donaldtrump after pro-Trump extremists stormed the US Capitol on Thursday.\nA spokesperson said the firm’s site-wide policies prohibit content that promotes hate or “encourages, glorifies, incites, or calls for violence.” The company said it has been contacting moderators to remind them of the guidelines.\nReddit’s ban of r/donaldtrump comes as internet platforms continue to react to Wednesday’s attack, during which President Trump used his online accounts to continue to spread baseless claims of election fraud.\nReports show that violence had been escalating beforehand on far-right internet groups, including on Parler, Twitter, Facebook, and TheDonald, a website that was banned from Reddit last summer over hate speech violations.\nTwitter kept his account locked until he removed three tweets that were in violation and Facebook has banned him from posting until at least January 20, when President-elect Joe Biden takes office.\nVisit Business Insider’s homepage for more stories.\nReddit has banned the subreddit r/donaldtrump after pro-Trump supporters were found to have organised online before storming and vandalizing the US Capitol on Wednesday. Axios first reported the news.\nIn a statement to Insider, a Reddit spokesperson said the firm’s site-wide policies prohibit content that promotes hate or “encourages, glorifies, incites, or calls for violence” and the company has been contacting moderators to remind them of the guidelines.\n“We have also taken action to ban the community r/donaldtrump given repeated policy violations in recent days regarding the violence at the US Capitol,” the spokesperson said. The website to the subreddit is now blank with a disclaimer that “r/donaldtrump has been banned from Reddit. This community was banned due to a violation of Reddit’s rules against inciting violence.”\nThe subreddit isn’t an official social account of the president, but Reddit’s ban comes as internet platforms at large continue to react to Wednesday’s siege on the US Capitol. As NBC News reported the day before the insurrection, violence had been escalating on far-right internet groups on Twitter, TikTok, and Parler, with many referring to Wednesday as “Independence Day.”\nViolence was also filling TheDonald, the far-right website formed after the subreddit of the same name was banned from Reddit in June 2020 over hate speech violations.\nBuzzfeed published a report detailing how far-right extremists had been publicly voicing their plans online for weeks leading up to January 6.\nDuring the siege, Trump took to his online mouthpiece to spout more unfounded claims of election fraud, a move that prompted big tech companies to crack down on his official social media accounts.\nTwitter removed three of his tweets in which he made the baseless claims and locked his account until he deleted them. He did on Thursday, and now he’s back to posting regularly on the site.\nFacebook has banned Trump until at least January 20, when President-elect Joe Biden will be sworn into office.\nRead more:\nTrump’s Facebook ban is just ‘a Band-Aid on a bullet wound,’ critics say â€” but no one can agree on the best way to wipe out the disinformation contagion\n“The shocking events of the last 24 hours clearly demonstrate that President Donald Trump intends to use his remaining time in office to undermine the peaceful and lawful transition of power to his elected successor, Joe Biden,” Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said on Thursday.\nSnapchat has also locked his account, and YouTube has introduced a new “strike” policy to crack down on videos that spread misinformation.\nBusiness Insider Emails & Alerts Site highlights each day to your inbox. Email Address Join\nFollow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram.}}
{{Although Diab’s resignation had appeared inevitable after the catastrophe, he seemed unwilling to leave and only two days ago made a televised speech in which he offered to stay on for two months to allow for various factions to agree on a road map for reforms. But the pressure from within his own Cabinet proved to be too much.}}
{{House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said former President Donald Trump could be considered an accessory to murder in connection with this month's deadly riot at the U.S. Capitol.\nIn an interview with MSNBC that aired Tuesday night, Pelosi accused Trump of inciting and inspiring the violent insurrection on Jan. 6 that left five people dead, including a U.S. Capitol Police officer. Another police officer involved in the Capitol's defense died while off duty in the days following the attack, officials said.\n"President’s words are important, they weigh a ton," Pelosi said of Trump, who repeatedly made false claims about election fraud and urged his followers to "fight" shortly before they attacked the Capitol. "And if you’re Donald Trump talking to these people, they believe it and they used his words to come here."\nBIDEN TO SIGN 17 EXECUTIVE ORDERS, ACTIONS ON FIRST DAY IN OFFICE, REVERSING TRUMP POLICIES, RESTORING OBAMA-ERA PROGRAMS\nThe California Democrat added that if it were proven that some members of Congress collaborated with the group that stormed the Capitol, they ‒ as well as Trump ‒ would be accessories to crimes committed during the siege.\n"When we talk about, ‘Did any of our colleagues collaborate?' Well, that remains to be seen," she said. "We have to get the evidence of that. And if they did, they would be accessory to the crime. And the crime, in some cases, was murder. And this president is an accessory to that crime because he instigated that insurrection that caused those deaths and this destruction."\nSeveral officials, including Washington Attorney General Karl Racine, have suggested they're looking into whether to charge Trump for the alleged role he played in inciting violence. Pelosi is the first to suggest that Trump would be an accessory to murder.\nBIDEN, 78, BECOMES OLDEST PRESIDENT IN AMERICAN HISTORY\nHer comments came hours before Trump's final day in office and ahead of the inauguration of President Biden on Wednesday. Washington remained on strict lockdown, with more than 20,000 National Guard members deployed in the wake of the insurrection.\nHouse Democrats, joined by 10 Republicans, voted to impeach Trump last week on a charge of incitement of insurrection. It's unclear when Pelosi will send the article of impeachment to the Senate to start a trial, but she has indicated it will be "soon."\nTRUMP ARRIVES IN FLORIDA AFTER DEPARTING WASHINGTON HOURS BEFORE BIDEN'S INAUGURATION\nTop GOP lawmakers have criticized Trump for the insurrection, with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell saying Tuesday that the former president had "provoked" the mob.\n"The mob was fed lies," McConnell said. "They were provoked by the president and other powerful people. And they tried to use fear and violence to stop a specific proceeding of the first branch of the federal government which they did not like. But we pressed on."}}
{{Signs of Christian nationalism—not to be confused with honest-to-God biblical faith—were hard to miss when a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol, some advocates for separation of church and state observed.\nOne of the first rioters to enter the Senate Chamber carried a Christian flag. Some in the crowd that seized the Capitol waved “Jesus Saves” banners. Others displayed a banner that said: “Jesus is my Savior/Trump is my president.” A flag reading “Proud American Christian” with an American flag inside an ichthus—an ancient Christian symbol—also was seen.\nAmanda Tyler, executive director of the Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty, noted the misappropriation of Christian imagery and called on fellow Christian Americans to “dismantle Christian nationalism.”\n“Like nearly all Americans, I watched in horror yesterday as a violent, unlawful and delusional mob attacked the seat of America’s representative democracy. My outrage increased when I saw photos of the rioters, cloaking their destructive acts in Jesus’ name and Christian imagery,” Tyler said.\n“What we all witnessed yesterday was un-American and un-Christian. Those of us who claim both identities have a special responsibility to repudiate these actions to continue the work to dismantle Christian nationalism, a dangerous ideology that permeates our society and demands a privileged place for Christianity and its adherents.”\nThe Baptist Joint Committee launched a Christians Against Christian Nationalism initiative last summer, condemning it as “a distortion of the gospel of Jesus Christ and a threat to American democracy.”\n“This egregious display [at the U.S. Capitol] can serve as a wake-up call, but we shouldn’t be complacent about the less obvious but still insidious displays of Christian nationalism in our communities,” Tyler said.\n‘Unholy alliance’\nAmericans United for Separation of Church and State issued a statement linking the mob that seized the Capitol to Christian nationalism and white supremacism.\n“Make no mistake: These rioters threaten every freedom we claim, including religious freedom. The noose hung on the West Lawn of our Capitol and the signs calling on Jesus only re-emphasize the unholy alliance of this president with White Christian nationalists,” Americans United stated.\nSign up for our weekly email newsletter.\n“The same people who profaned Black churches in Washington, D.C., three weeks ago are responsible for today’s abhorrent actions with the blatant backing of the president they support.”\nOn Twitter, Americans United Executive Director Rachel Laser was equally direct.\n“What went on is not just an attempted coup but also the product of White Christian nationalism that knows no limits in pursuing its power,” Laser tweeted.\n‘Conflating of religion and politics’\nIn an opinion article in the Baptist Standard, Jack Goodyear, dean of the Gary Cook School of Leadership at Dallas Baptist University, condemned the “acts of domestic terror” at the Capitol by a mob “primed by the sitting president” who created a false narrative about a stolen election.\n“But for those who believed the falsehoods, the narrative became set in stone,” Goodyear wrote in the Standard “Voices” column.\n“On Jan. 6, these beliefs spilled over into chaotic madness as a mob descended upon the Capitol, smashing windows, tearing through offices, disrupting sessions of Congress and leading to four reported deaths. Numerous flags were paraded through the Capitol, including the Confederate flag, Trump flags of various sorts and even a flag declaring, ‘Jesus Saves,’ which indicates the close intertwining of politics and faith,” he continued.\nChristian nationalism has led directly to increased political instability, Goodyear wrote.\n“Politics and religion have increasingly aligned for Christians in America, leading to the belief that to be a good Christian one must vote for a certain party. Or that certain politicians are God’s chosen instruments. However, this conflating of religion and politics comes with a heavy price,” he wrote.\n“One of the dangers of a society determining a leader is divinely chosen—whether viewed as King David or King Cyrus—is that the standard of righteousness morphs to become whatever that ‘chosen’ leader determines it to be.”\nGoodyear urged Christians—particularly Baptists, who historically have been committed to separation of church and state—to resist the blending of religious and political identity.\n“We as Christians must reflect, repent and lead in a new direction away from Christian nationalism, which leads to further injustice and instability,” he wrote. “We can and must remain involved in politics as salt and light, but we must not find our identities in a political tribe. We must not swear allegiance to a politician.”\n‘Christian Nationalism on display’\nSome Baptist pastors likewise noted the Christian symbols displayed by rioters.\nIn his weekly email newsletter to members of Green Acres Baptist Church in Tyler, Pastor David Dykes wrote: “I was saddened by the scenes of protesters breaking windows and storming their way into our nation’s seat of government and occupying the House and Senate chambers. I was more saddened to see the flags that associated the matchless name of Jesus on the same flag as Trump.”\nDwight McKissic, pastor of Cornerstone Baptist Church in Arlington, pointed to the irony that Southern Baptist Convention leaders focus on attacking critical race theory while Christian nationalism is demonstrated at the U.S. Capitol.\n“Christian Nationalism on display, while the SBC debates CRT,” McKissic tweeted.\nAnthony B. Bradley, professor of religion at King’s College in New York, offered a similar perspective.\nBradley tweeted: “Critical Race Theory will never turn into 1812 lawlessness. Four people are dead because of Christian Nationalism, not CRT.”\nHe called on Southern Baptist leaders and others to “fight the right fight for once.”\nChristian humorist Phil Vischer, one of the creators of “VeggieTales” and co-host of the Holy Post podcast, sardonically tweeted: “Watching protesters invade the Capitol with Christian flag and a giant ‘Jesus 2020’ banner. Lawmakers are in hiding because of marauding … Christians?? Anyone still unsure Christian nationalism is an issue??”}}
{{TEL AVIV (Reuters) - The red, white and cedar green of the Lebanese flag were lit up over a Tel Aviv square on Wednesday in a rare show of Israeli solidarity with Beirut as it reels from a devastating explosion.\nIsrael has been in a technical state of war with Lebanon for generations, and it deems the country’s armed Shi’ite Muslim group Hezbollah, backed by Iran, the biggest threat across its northern border. Israel and Hezbollah fought a month-long war in 2006 and have traded fire again in recent weeks.\nBut, arguing that “humanity comes before any conflict”, Tel Aviv Mayor Ron Huldai ordered City Hall on Rabin Square, named for the late Israeli prime minister Yitzhak Rabin, to be illuminated with the Lebanese flag on Wednesday evening.\n“Our hearts are with the Lebanese people following this terrible tragedy,” Huldai wrote on Twitter.\nAt nightfall, windows on the 13-storey building’s facade were filled with light in the design of Lebanon’s flag: two horizontal red stripes enveloping a wider band of white, with a large green cedar tree - Lebanon’s national symbol - at the centre.\nThe decision drew criticism from some Israelis, including cabinet minister Rafael Peretz, who on Twitter likened it to “raising (an) enemy state’s flag in the heart of Tel Aviv”.\nPrime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel had offered aid to Lebanon after the massive warehouse explosion in the port district of the capital Beirut on Tuesday that killed at least 135 people and injured over 5,000.\nLebanon has not responded to the overture, according to an Israeli defence official, who suggested that Israel with U.N. support could “set up and operate field hospitals on our side of the border and admit casualties from Lebanon”.\nIn the Israeli-occupied West Bank, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas declared Wednesday a day of mourning and ordered Palestinian flags in the territory lowered to half mast in solidarity with Lebanon.}}
{{‘RHOA’ star Porsha Williams joined protestors on the front lines in downtown Atlanta, as she told TV crews ‘we are not going to take it anymore’.\nPorsha Williams, 38, stepped out on May 29 with thousands of Black Lives Matter protestors in Atlanta, after the tragic death of George Floyd. The incident, in which the unarmed black man was pinned to the ground by fired police officer Derek Chauvin, has sparked outcry on a national scale. While talking to a news crew at the scene of the protests, Porsha said she was “not going to take it anymore”.\n“With everything that’s going on, today I’m just like anybody else,” the Real Housewives of Atlanta star said. “I am here to be a voice for the voiceless. What’s going on in black America is not ok. We are not ok. We just want to live.” The reality TV icon, who dressed in a black ensemble with a black baseball cap and white protective face gear, also added, “I’m out here today to make sure everybody knows that black lives matter, we want justice for George Floyd’s family. In know one cop has been arrested, we would like the other cops to be charged with murder. And we are going to protest until it is done.”\nPorsha found her railroad ticket and I am so proud. Love her. pic.twitter.com/t2fXOiO8tw — Michael Arceneaux (@youngsinick) May 30, 2020\nPorsha added, “We are here for any family who has suffered from police brutality. We are done, we are tired, and we are not going to take it anymore. We are not going to sit at home, we’re going to march, we’re gong to lift our voice and we are going to be heard.”\nShe certainly isn’t the only celebrity to speak out in response to the tragic death of George Floyd. Beyonce, 38, is also one of the many celebrities who have spoken out in the wake of his passing. The Grammy winner, who has remained fairly quiet on social media this year, did a complete 180 when she talked about his death in a passionate new video posted to her Instagram on May 30. “We need justice for George Floyd,” she began.\n“We all witnessed his murder in broad daylight. We’re broken and we’re disgusted. We cannot normalize this pain. I’m not only speaking to people of color. If you’re white, black, brown, or anything in between, I’m sure you feel hopeless by the racism going on in America right now,” she concluded.}}
{{While expressing his sympathy with Lebanese people, Ayatollah Khamenei said that Islamic Republic of Iran stands by people of this country to alleviate their agonies and pains.\n“We sympathize with dear Lebanese citizens and stand by them in the painful tragedy of the explosion occurred at Beirut Port which killed and injured many people and caused severe damages.\n“Patience in the face of this tragic incident will be a golden page of Lebanon’s honors.”\nOn Tuesday afternoon, a massive explosion rocked Beirut with the force of an earthquake followed by a shock wave that devastated much of the city leading to the death of at least 135 people and injury of more than 5,000 others.\nMA/4992295}}
{{At least ten persons have reportedly been killed and hundreds wounded in a huge blast that ripped through Lebanon’s capital, Beirut on Tuesday.\nThe massive explosion at the port area of the city released a shockwave which caused widespread damage to buildings, shattering windows.\nA possible second explosion was reported to be at the Hariri residence in the city.\nLebanon’s Health Minister, Hamad Hassan, said hundreds were wounded in the explosion.\nThe cause of the blast is still unknown.\nIt comes ahead of the verdict in a trial for the killing of former Prime Minister, Rafik Hariri, in 2005.\nThe latest reports come amid political tension in Lebanon, with street demonstrations against the government’s handling the worst economic crisis since the 1975-1990 civil war.\nLebanese Prime Minister, Hassan Diab has declared Wednesday a day of national mourning.\nReports say hospitals are overwhelmed with the wounded and are calling on people to donate blood.}}
{{Workers install no-scale fencing around the U.S. Capitol in Washington, Thursday, Jan. 7, 2021. President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration was already going to be scaled back, but after a mob stormed the U.S. Capitol, ransacking the building and triggering chaos that stretched all the way to the Senate floor, questions began to arise about whether having a presidential ceremony on the steps of the same building could also pose serous security risk.}}
{{A US Capital building rioter was fired from his job at a Maryland marketing firm after he wore a company badge while he stormed the building, the firm said.\nThe unnamed invader — who was captured in a photo with the Navistar Direct Marketing badge around his neck — was canned over the “dangerous conduct” after breaching the building, the firm said Wednesday.\n“After review of the photographic evidence the employee in question has been terminated for cause,” the firm said in a statement posted on Facebook.\n“While we support all employee’s right to peaceful, lawful exercise of free speech, any employee demonstrating dangerous conduct that endangers the health and safety of others will no longer have an employment opportunity with Navistar Direct Marketing,” it noted.\nThe rioter in question was photographed inside the US Capitol building, wearing a TRUMP hat with an American flag draped over his shoulder, according to an image posted by WBAL-TV 11 reporter Tre Ward.\nHe was also seen alongside Jake Angeli, a QAnon devotee who sported a bizare viking-stile horned hat as he sat in a chamber chair previously occupied by Vice President Mike Pence.}}
{{Inquiry into the US Capitol riot: The FBI’s challenge has just begun\nOf the 125 federal arrests made so far in connection with the riot at the Capitol earlier this month, most have been relatively simple: Agents and prosecutors have put together cases largely by scouring the news and social media for incriminating photographs and videos.\nSome of the evidence has been almost comically easy to obtain. Several people have been turned in by their loved ones or have openly bragged about their roles in the attack on Facebook or in interviews with their hometown newspapers. One man went so far as to post a photo of himself on Instagram with a helpful finger-pointing icon and the words, “THIS IS ME.”\nBut the inquiry into the Capitol assault, a huge effort that has focused its attention on as many as 400 people, took an important turn this week as prosecutors filed their first serious conspiracy charges, accusing three members of the right-wing militia group the Oath Keepers of plotting the incursion in advance. If, as they have promised, investigators are hoping to narrow their gaze on organized extremists who may have preplanned the attack, they are going to have to use a different and more difficult-to-master set of skills.\nThe FBI’s most challenging work, legal scholars say, may have only just begun.\n“It’s a lot harder to charge a conspiracy, especially compared to the first wave of cases where you basically had people confessing on video to federal crimes,” said Aitan Goelman, a former federal prosecutor who helped try Timothy McVeigh, the Oklahoma City bomber. “You are going to see more serious charges, but they are naturally going to come later after more investment by law enforcement.”\nCourt papers showed that many defendants have turned themselves in and are cooperating with authorities. Cases in the coming days are likely to focus on attacks against members of the press at the Capitol, according to a law enforcement official briefed on the matter.\nIn making more conspiracy cases, the first question investigators must confront is how much conspiring actually went into the storming of the Capitol on Jan. 6. Five people died in the violent attack, and the final certification of President Joe Biden’s election was abruptly interrupted as lawmakers fled the House and Senate floors.\nChilling videos and photos have emerged showing some people moving inside the building in tight formation, wearing military gear, carrying restraints and sometimes using hand signals or radios to communicate.\nBut many people appear to have acted spontaneously and, at least so far, have been accused of misdemeanors like unlawful entry and disorderly conduct.\nThe Oath Keepers case could be a model moving forward for more complicated cases. The criminal complaint shows investigators employing a variety of techniques in tracking down and charging the defendants: Thomas E. Caldwell, Donovan Crowl and Jessica Watkins. Caldwell said he intended to fight the charges at a hearing this week. Crowl and Watkins have not yet appeared in court to respond to the complaint.\nAgents in their case pored through video footage at the Capitol looking for badges or insignia suggesting that the three accused militia members were part of the same group. They trolled through social media accounts on platforms like Parler for any indications that the three were not only at the building, but had planned in advance to be there. And they obtained audio recordings of Watkins talking with others who are suspected of being Oath Keepers on Zello, a push-to-talk cellphone app that operates like a walkie-talkie.\nInvestigators also conducted an analysis of locational data from a cellphone registered to Caldwell’s wife, determining that it was near the Capitol at the time of the assault. Since Caldwell had no obvious connection to the others, agents followed up the lead with a more old-fashioned method.\nWhile searching Watkins’ home in Ohio, they persuaded one of her friends to tell them that Watkins had provided a phone number for a fellow Oath Keeper with whom she had stayed after the attack. The FBI was able to determine the number was connected to the cellphone registered to Caldwell’s wife.\nOn Thursday, the FBI indicated that it was actively pursuing the most serious actors in the Capitol attack, announcing a reward of up to $75,000 for information about anyone linked to devices believed to be pipe bombs that were planted at the headquarters of the Republican and Democratic national committees. The bulletin showed a grainy photo of someone wearing a white mask, black gloves and a hooded sweatshirt, walking down a street and carrying a backpack.\nThe Capitol investigation is, by all accounts, an enormous undertaking, drawing on the efforts of hundreds of agents and prosecutors from across the country. It promises to become even more onerous and sweeping as the probe moves toward more complex charges and investigators begin to use techniques like writing warrants to search through people’s email accounts or possibly infiltrating online chat rooms frequented by extremists.}}
{{Just before a MAGA mob descended on the US Capitol on Wednesday and caused a riot that killed five people, including a Capitol police officer who was beaten to death, President Donald Trump delivered a speech to his supporters in which he used the words “fight” or “fighting” at least 20 times.\n“We’re going to have to fight much harder and Mike Pence is going to have to come through for us,” Trump said at one point, alluding to Pence’s ultimate refusal to attempt to steal the election for him during that day’s hearing where the Electoral College made his loss official.\n“You’ll never take back our country with weakness. You have to show strength. You have to be strong,” he added during the speech in which he pushed long-debunked lies about Joe Biden’s convincing victory over him being the product of fraud.\n"You'll never take back our country with weakness. You have to show strength. You have to be strong." -- this is what Trump told his followers just before a mob of them stormed the Capitol, resulting in at least five deaths pic.twitter.com/oRFUcTfsNn — Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) January 8, 2021\nTrump’s comments at the rally are worth reexamining two days later, as he’s condemned by people across the political spectrum for inciting an afternoon of violence that forced lawmakers into hiding, left journalists at the mercy of a violent mob, and directly endangered the safety of Pence and other lawmakers perceived as betraying Trump or being anti-Trump.\nI heard at least 3 different rioters at the Capitol say that they hoped to find Vice President Mike Pence and execute him by hanging him from a Capitol Hill tree as a traitor. It was a common line being repeated. Many more were just talking about how the VP should be executed. https://t.co/fxHREouEWF — Jim Bourg (@jimbourg) January 8, 2021\nInstead of being appalled by what was unfolding at the Capitol, Sen. Ben Sasse (R-NE) said on Friday that White House aides told him Trump was actually “delighted.” The president’s role in the mayhem was so egregious that it’s put him under enormous pressure to resign or be forced from office via the 25th Amendment or a second impeachment, even while there are only 12 days left in his term.\n“Trial by combat”\nTrump’s speech was the last in a series delivered at a “Save America” rally in which Republicans who had vowed to follow the Constitution by resisting the pressure campaign to steal the election were repeatedly portrayed as wimps or traitors.\nRep. Mo Brooks (R-AL) began the day by angrily yelling, “Today is the day American patriots start taking down names and kicking ass!” Donald Trump Jr. followed that up by warning Republicans in Congress that if they didn’t “fight” for his father later that day, “I’m gonna be in your backyard in a couple of months.”\n“Let’s have trial by combat,” Rudy Giuliani added later.\n"Over the next 10 days, we get to see the machines that are crooked, the ballots that are fraudulent. And if we're wrong, we will be made fools of. But if we're right, and lot of them will go to jail. So -- let's have trial by combat" -- Giuliani pic.twitter.com/QAYvnplCj7 — Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) January 6, 2021\nTrump began his speech by urging the media to “show what’s really happening out here because these people are not going to take it any longer. They’re not going to take it any longer.”\n“You don’t concede when there’s theft involved,” he said. “Our country has had enough. We will not take it anymore and that’s what this is all about.”\nTrump encouraged his listeners to march to the Capitol following his speech “to see whether or not we have great and courageous leaders or whether or not we have leaders that should be ashamed of themselves throughout history, throughout eternity.” He did mention in passion that he was confident they would march “peacefully,” but his fans seemed to hear a different message, at one point chanting “fight for Trump!” as Trump said, “We will not let them silence your voices. We’re not going to let it happen.”\nThis is the incitement earlier today that led to the violent insurrection against the government of the United States. https://t.co/wiCp0gLo1G — Robert Reich (@RBReich) January 6, 2021\nIndeed, shortly after Trump’s speech wrapped up, a mob of Trump supporters overran law enforcement officials and breached the Capitol, ransacking and looting and leaving the premises looking like a war zone. They succeeded in disrupting and delaying the proceedings that made Trump’s loss official but didn’t change the ultimate outcome — and if anything did damage to Trump by turning political sentiment sharply against him in the final days of his administration.\nAs chaotic scenes unfolded at the Capitol, Trump’s first move was to post a tweet attacking Pence for lacking the “courage” to help him steal the election (he later deleted it as a condition of getting Twitter to unlock his account). Meanwhile, rioters unsuccessfully hunted for Pence while others were photographed with zip-tie handcuffs, suggesting they hoped to take hostages.\nThe power of audio: Just minutes after Trump slammed Pence on Twitter, @sheeraf tells @mikiebarb that "on a livestream of someone inside the Capitol, you hear dozens of people shouting, 'Where is Pence? Find Pence!' " and also "Fight for Trump!"https://t.co/Lg0SUhE57K — David W. Chen (@davidwchen) January 8, 2021\nOnly later did Trump call for peace, but even then, he did so in the context of a video message in which he praised his supporters, telling them that while “you have to go home now ... we love you, you’re very special.” Information that has since emerged is raising questions about if Trump may even have played a role in kneecapping law enforcement services that failed to prevent rioters from breaching the Capitol.\nRelated Donald Trump is the accelerant\nRioters, looters, and those who engaged in deadly violence are, of course, responsible for their own actions, but Trump and other speakers at the “Save America” rally contributed to the chaos by whipping them into an unruly frenzy and encouraging them to do what they could to help him overthrow the election. Wednesday’s chain of events will go down as one of the clearest examples of Trump’s reckless rhetoric radicalizing his followers and ultimately jeopardizing victims.}}
{{Nothing was spared in or around the Capitol in the chaos and destruction triggered by President Trump ... including the Inauguration stage which suffered significant damage.\nTMZ got these pics showing the stage's siding torn to shreds ... as it appears the insurrectionists were gung-ho to do maximum damage. The stage itself is still standing, but it's gonna need a lot of repairs.\nIn a move that's clearly coming one day too late ... security's erecting 8-foot high fencing. You can see the sheeting for the fences stacked up, and it will be going up throughout Thursday.\nThere are also guards now standing watch over the construction that had been going on for at least 5 months.\nAs we reported ... work had been ramping up on the West Front of the Capitol. At the time, it was hard to tell what the setup would look like ... whether it would be a scaled-down version of past inaugurations ... due to the COVID-19 pandemic.\nIt remains to be seen how Wednesday's deadly violence at the Capitol will change final plans for Inauguration Day.}}
{{A live broadcast from the US Capitol chaos on Wednesday by Israel’s Channel 13 chief Washington correspondent, Gil Tamary, was interrupted by an agitator who used anti-Semitic slurs.\nThe protestor, dressed in all black and holding a GoPro, stepped in front of Tamary’s camera mid-broadcast.\n“I occupy this space, ok?” the protestor says after Tamary asks him to move away, a possible allusion to accusations about the 'Israeli occupation.'\n“I don’t represent… the Israeli government,” Tamary responds.\n“I wanna know why…what is a goy? What is a goy? Tell us what a goy is,” the agitator continues.\n“I don’t know,” says Tamary.\n“Yes you do, you lying Israeli. They play the pilpul game.”\nPilpul, a method of Talmudic analysis, has been appropriated by anti-Semites in recent years, including neo-Nazi Andrew Anglin, who uses it in his publication The Daily Stormer to suggest that Jews are nefarious liars.\n“You are all goy. Goy are cattle. You are cattle today,” the agitator continued, a possible reference to the cattle cars used to transport Jews to Nazi death camps during the Holocaust.\nAs Tamary and his co-anchor speak in Hebrew and try to regain control of the broadcast, the agitator steps fully into frame, seen wearing sunglasses and a helmet.\n“Thank you Mark. Thank you very much for being with us,” Tamary says as the agitator walks away.\nRan Boker, a journalist for Yedioth Ahronot, tweeted the video on Wednesday with the caption, “the troll that interrupted Gil Tamary’s live broadcast from Washington, and his dignified response.”\nThe back of the agitator’s jacket displayed a red banner with the words, “DON’T SHOOT. PRESS.”}}
{{A BRIT wounded in the Beirut mega blast feared he had been blinded by flying debris — until he realised his eyes were filled with his blood.\nAndy Kemp, 58, was at his second-floor office desk when the mammoth explosion of chemicals half a mile away fired glass shards into his head and neck.\n7 Andy Kemp was wounded in the Beirut blast\n7 He feared he had been blinded by flying debris Credit: Getty Images - Getty\nHe was one of dozens of Brits caught up in Tuesday’s horror, in which at least 135 people died, 5,000 were injured and 300,000 made homeless.\nAn initial explosion, believed to have been sparked by a welder, triggered a second massive blast in a store of 2,750 tons of volatile ammonium nitrate at the city’s port.\nThe eruption and shock wave — a fifth of the size of the atom bomb which levelled Hiroshima — felled entire office and apartment blocks and tossed cars into the air like toys.\nAndy said yesterday he staggered into the street to find a “hell on Earth” littered with the dead and dying under a vast mushroom cloud.\nThe dad of three, who runs an environmental firm based in the Lebanese capital, told The Sun: “I was at my desk when the first big explosion went off and presumed it was terror.\n"I had managed to type the words ‘uh-oh’ into my phone to warn my family when the second blast completely destroyed my office and flung me across the room.\n“I’d never experienced such noise and destruction and must have blacked out for a moment but when I came to I couldn’t see and thought I’d been blinded.\n“But I couldn’t see because the blood from my head wounds had filled my eyes — I was soaked from head to foot.\n“When I wiped it away, I realised my office was upside down and I was losing a lot of blood. I needed to get to hospital fast.\n“Helpers came but when they got me out into the street it really was like hell on Earth.\n'ONE OF THE LUCKY ONES'\n“People killed by the percussion wave from the blast were sitting dead in their smashed cars and there was glass and debris everywhere. There were too many to count.\n"My office was next to a hospital which had been badly hit and people were running out rather than into it to get help.”\nAn ambulance got him to another hospital. He went on: “I was one of the lucky ones.\n“People were dead or dying and very seriously wounded and the place was overwhelmed. I’ve lived in Beirut for 20 years and experienced explosions before but this was completely off the scale.”\nAndy, whose apartment close to his office was completely wrecked, added: “One shard narrowly missed my jugular vein — a few millimetres and I would be among the dead.”\nWife Jane, 51, daughter Phoebe, 12 and son Max, 18, were unharmed after going to the beach.\nOlder son Jack, 19, was at home but escaped with cuts to his shin.\nForeign Office officials said staff were injured in the British Embassy three miles from the explosion and some needed hospital treatment.\nIts shaken employees were last night urgently trying to reach Britons living near the blast zone amid fears the death toll will rocket.\nEnglish teacher Phillipa Mishlawi, 68, an expat from Torquay, said she thought it was an earthquake when her apartment block at least a mile away “shook as though it was about to fall down”.\n'APOCALYPSE'\nThe gran added: “I’ve seen a lot of suffering in Beirut since moving here in 1976 but nothing like this. It’s like an apocalypse.”\nClaire Malleson, 45, from Dorset was jogging round the American University campus where she works when she was hit by the blast.\nShe said: “We were warned about possible toxic fumes. The blood banks are calling for urgent donations.”\nMany of the dead were reported to have been hurled into the sea from the port silos which blew up.\nHorrific images also circulated of victims torn apart inside cars as they commuted past the blast site during rush hour.\nThe explosion, heard more than 140 miles away in Cyprus, carved out a 200-yard crater which filled with seawater.\nPort food stocks and a grain silo were smashed, adding to hunger fears for thousands of homeless victims.\nRescuers were racing against time to save scores of victims trapped inside collapsed buildings.\nOne man was hauled alive from rubble 16 hours after the blast.\nMeanwhile, a nurse was hailed a hero after she carried three newborns to safety from a hospital rocked by the shock wave.\n7 At least 135 people died in the blast Credit: AP:Associated Press\nFour other nurses there were killed and 200 patients wounded.\nSecurity sources said a welder at a port building was repairing a hole when a blaze broke out and quickly spread to the warehouse storing the ammonium nitrate.\nThe fertiliser was last night said to have been shipped there in 2014 by a Russian businessman who went bankrupt and abandoned it.\nMost read in News GUNNED DOWN Kids' author shot in 'assassination attempt' by biker who died fleeing cops FURNACE FRIDAY UK set for record breaking hottest day EVER tomorrow with 38C scorcher ROY-ILL MAIL Coronavirus outbreak at Royal Mail delivery office as '19 workers hit by bug' Exclusive LUCKY DRAW Lotto lout Mikey Carroll has found love & says wild hellraising days are over URGENT DROP-OFF Woman horrified to find Amazon delivery driver taking a poo in her garden Exclusive DEATH 'FLAWS' Thousands of Covid deaths set to be wiped off official records after review\nOfficials insisted the explosion was not deliberate and blamed negligence.\nA customs boss claimed his office had sent six warnings that the huge stash of powder keg chemicals could “blow up Beirut”.\nUS Pentagon sources also called it a tragic accident — but President Donald Trump claimed his security advisers “seem to think it was an attack, a bomb of some kind”.\n7 Mr Kemp was one of dozens of Brits caught up in Tuesday’s horror Credit: AP:Associated Press\n7 Snap shows the docks before and after the huge blast in the Lebanese capital Credit: PA:Press Association\n7 5,000 people were injured and 300,000 made homeless Credit: AFP or licensors\n7\nDrone footage shows devastation in Beirut after massive explosion which killed at least 100 people\nGOT a story? RING The Sun on 0207 782 4104 or WHATSAPP on 07423720250 or EMAIL exclusive@the-sun.co.uk}}
{{The protests are in response to the deaths of Michael Ramos in Austin and George Floyd in Minneapolis.\nAUSTIN, Texas — More protests are expected in the Austin area this weekend in response to the deaths of George Floyd in Minneapolis and Michael Ramos in Austin.\nFloyd died in police custody in Minneapolis earlier this week, and Ramos died after an Austin police officer fired his rifle at him in late April.\nThe group "Mike Ramos Brigade" is planning a rally that's expected to start at noon Saturday in front of the Austin Police Department headquarters. The group's organizer said the event is to show solidarity with those across the country who are protesting for justice for Floyd and continue to call for justice for Ramos.\nOn Saturday morning, it appeared several windows had been boarded up at APD headquarters ahead of the planned protests. As of 11:30 a.m., APD told KVUE that road closures in the area of the headquarters are imminent and drivers should avoid the area.\nAhead of Saturday's protest, Ramos' mother, Brenda Ramos, released a statement pleading to protesters, "Please do not commit violence in my son's name." She is not participating in Saturday's protest but will be at Sunday's rally.\nEarlier in the week, APD released the following statement in response to the planned protests:\n"The Austin Police Department is aware of the planned protest occurring this weekend. We will have the appropriate number of officers on duty to ensure every citizen’s right to gather and peacefully protest is protected, while also keeping our community safe­­­­­. "\nThe protests scheduled for Saturday and Sunday have been planned for days – however, several unplanned protests were held at APD headquarters late Friday night. An Austin police officer estimated nearly 75 to 100 people were gathered outside the headquarters. Protesters could be heard chanting "hands up, don't shoot," and at one point, water bottles and other objects were thrown at APD officers.\nPHOTOS: Austin protests for Geoge Floyd, Michael Ramos 1/8\n2/8\n3/8\n4/8\n5/8\n6/8\n7/8\n8/8 1 / 8\nAustin police confirmed to KVUE that six arrests were made during the protest, but said no officers were injured and the arrests were for "active disturbances."\nThe protest lasted for hours, well into early Saturday morning. Just before 3 a.m., police moved protesters off the Interstate 35 southbound frontage road at Eighth Street, and the road reopened for the first time in nearly three hours. Protesters moved to the sidewalks.\nOn Friday evening, Austin Mayor Steve Adler spoke about the protests planned this weekend, saying in part, "When people learn not to expect justice, our civic institutions lose their meaning and their power and their strength. Justice demands accountability."\nSaturday morning, the Austin Police Association released a statement about Friday night's protest:\nAustin wasn't the only Central Texas city to see protests Friday. Protesters in San Marcos were also heard Friday afternoon chanting, "Not Trump, no KKK, no fascist USA," in response to Floyd's death.\nRELATED:\nOn April 24, 42-year-old Ramos was shot to death during a confrontation with Austin police at a southeast Austin apartment complex. Travis County District Attorney Margaret Moore announced Friday that she has decided to present the Ramos case to a special grand jury.\nA federal investigation is underway after Floyd died Monday as he was being arrested by police in Minneapolis. Video shows former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin kneeling on Floyd’s neck as he says, “I can’t breathe.” Chauvin has been charged with murder and manslaughter in Floyd's death. The Minneapolis mayor has called for criminal charges against the other officers involved as well.}}
{{By PTI\nNEW YORK: The storming of the U.S. Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump played out on television in searing fashion Wednesday, with stunning pictures of guns drawn in the House of Representatives and hand-to-hand combat with police.\nThe scenes of bedlam and fear at the center of national government erupted quickly, but journalists wondered whether they should have been a surprise.\n"It's hard to believe that this is going on," said CNN's Wolf Blitzer.\n"This is unprecedented, it is dangerous and this is so, so embarrassing for the United States of America."\nThe social media giants Twitter and Facebook took the unprecedented step of suspending Trump's privileges to post messages on their platforms, at least temporarily.\nBoth companies said Trump had violated their policies.\nJournalists had gathered to follow Congress' counting of electoral college ballots to seal the victory of President-elect Joe Biden, a normally routine event turned tense by the challenge to the vote by some of Trump's political allies.\nAs that debate was ongoing, the media's focus shifted to outside Congress, where supporters who had gathered to hear an aggrieved president fume about his defeat began streaming to the Capitol.\nThey climbed the Capitol steps, where one person held a placard saying "fight for Trump."\nAfter breaching the building, pictures emerged of an armed standoff in the House as politicians cowered behind desks and people smashed the building's windows and climbed in.\nNewsmax showed stunning footage of police and rioters squaring off in the Capitol Rotunda.\n"The mob has overtaken the process of trying to certify the Electoral College," said Fox News Channel reporter Chad Pergram.\n"Security here at the U.S. Capitol has failed."\nGiven Trump's speech and two months of baseless charges that the election was rigged, several journalists raised questions about why law enforcement seemed so unprepared.\n"The shock I have is how easy this was," said NBC's Chuck Todd.\nAs images of people banging on a door at the Capitol aired, ABC News anchor George Stephanopoulos said, "that is not Ukraine, that is not Belarus."\nThere were debates in newsrooms across the country about what terminology to use to describe the participants.\nDemonstrators? Protestors? Rioters? A mob? CNN's Jake Tapper said, "we call them terrorists."\nNBC's Lester Holt said "there are some elements of a coup attempt."\nCBS News Norah ODonnell conducted an extraordinary interview with House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, pressing him on whether he has urged Trump to do something to stop his supporters and confronting him on whether the false claims of widespread electoral fraud had led to it.\n"I just wonder whether someone is going to call a spade a spade and I am giving you the opportunity right now," O'Donnell said.\nBiden spoke to the nation, followed by Trump.\nThe president urged his supporters to respect law enforcement and go home, but also said he "loved" them and repeated claims of a stolen election.\nTapper wondered whether CNN should even have aired it.\nOn CNBC, Shepard Smith ordered a tape of Trump's message stopped in midstream.\n"Stop the tape," he said.\n"That is not true, and we are not airing it."\nCNN's Abby Phillip said Americans needed to question whether Trump was even capable of leading the country for the next two weeks.\n"He is inciting violence against the government itself, lawlessness, vandalism and he's also completely MIA in terms of his principal job, which is to keep this country safe," she said.\nEven as the building was being stormed, Trump supporters in the media were calling into question who was responsible.\nOn One America News Network, anchor Dan Ball said the violence was nothing like civil rights demonstrations last summer, and suggested without evidence that Antifa demonstrators may have disguised themselves as Trump supporters for the siege on the Capitol.\n"We don't have all the facts," he said.\nFox anchor Martha MacCallum, during the demonstration, called the breach of the Capitol a "huge victory" for protestors.\nShe said they have "disrupted the system in an enormous way" and said it was an escalation of protests that included a demonstration in front of Missouri Republican Sen. Josh Hawley's home.\nThere were tense moments for reporters outside the Capitol.\nA Fox News reporter asked a man to stop blocking his camera.\nA crew from The Associated Press had its equipment stolen and destroyed.\nThe nation's deep divisions played out in the media before and after protestors moved on the Capitol.\nFox News Channel, Newsmax and OANN all carried the president's speech Wednesday live.\nCNN and MSNBC, meanwhile, ignored the president's words.\nWhen Congress resumed debating Wednesday evening, ABC, CBS, NBC, CNN and MSNBC played all or a portion of Utah Sen.\nMitt Romney's speech condemning objections to the vote certification.\nFox did not show Romney.\nThe nations largest broadcasters, ABC, CBS and NBC, devoted virtually all of their prime times to the Washington drama.}}
{{President-elect Joe Biden speaks about jobs at The Queen theater, Friday, Dec. 4, 2020, in Wilmington, Del. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)\nWASHINGTON, D.C. (KXAN) — On Saturday, President-elect Joe Biden called out Congress and Pres. Trump as deadlines for millions of Americans facing financial hardships loom.\nBiden took to Twitter to urge Washington lawmakers to pass some sort of relief package, saying: “If Congress and President Trump fail to act by the end of December: 12 million Americans will lose unemployment benefits. Emergency paid leave will end. The moratorium on evictions will expire. The situation is urgent. Americans need help and they need it now.”\nIf Congress and President Trump fail to act by the end of December:\n– 12 million Americans will lose unemployment benefits\n– Emergency paid leave will end\n– The moratorium on evictions will expire\nThe situation is urgent. Americans need help and they need it now. — Joe Biden (@JoeBiden) December 5, 2020\nBiden’s words come as Democrats and Republicans sit at a stalemate over coronavirus relief. Currently, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Sen. Minority Leader Chuck Schumer are backing a $908 billion bipartisan plan to approach Sen. Maj. Leader Mitch McConnell with.\nThat plan includes funding for more Paycheck Protection Program loans for small businesses, expanded free COVID-19 testing, and money for schools.\nBiden has repeatedly said that getting help to Americans will be a “day one” priority for his administration once he takes the oath of office on January 20.\nTrump has mostly remained quiet on the subject, as he has continued his effort to prevent states certifying election results and/or overturn them based on still unproven claims of voter fraud.\nEarlier on Saturday, President-elect Biden also urged Americans to continue wearing masks, keep social distancing, and limiting group sizes.\n“It’s our patriotic duty as Americans,” Biden tweeted.}}
{{Vice President Mike Pence oversaw the certification of Joe Biden’s electoral victory on Wednesday. (Getty Images)\nVice President Mike Pence was incensed with Donald Trump on Wednesday for putting him and others in danger as an angry mob inspired by the president laid siege to the US Capitol.\n“I’ve known Mike Pence forever,” Senator Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma said on Wednesday in an interview with Tulsa World, his hometown newspaper.\n“I’ve never seen Pence as angry as he was today,” Mr Inhofe said.\nShortly after 2pm, pro-Trump rioters overpowered US Capitol Police and stormed into the chamber where just minutes earlier Mr Pence had been presiding over a joint session of Congress to certify the 2020 presidential election results.\nMr Pence was escorted away from the chamber and taken to a secure location. Ten minutes later, Mr Trump fired off a tweet shaming his own vice president — who was under lockdown at the time — for refusing to bow to his demands to overturn the election.\n“Mike Pence didn't have the courage to do what should have been done to protect our Country and our Constitution, giving States a chance to certify a corrected set of facts, not the fraudulent or inaccurate ones which they were asked to previously certify,” the president wrote on Twitter, a post that was subsequently taken down by the social media platform for its gross mischaracterisations of the election certification process and false claim of widespread voter fraud.\n“USA demands the truth!” Mr Trump added, although the truth about alleged “election fraud” is that it did not happen on a mass scale.\nSeveral news outlets have also reported that Mr Trump initially resisted calling in the National Guard to protect the legislature as the mob he incited ran roughshod through the halls of the Capitol complex and occupied it for hours.\nIt took intervention from Mr Pence and national security officials to send in federal units.\nMr Pence was reportedly apoplectic as Mr Trump continued stoking the fire at the Capitol yesterday, telling the rioters he had great “love” for them (although he later told them to “go home”).\nStory continues\nMr Inhofe told the Tulsa World in his interview on Wednesday that he had a “long conversation” with the vice president as the Capitol was being cleared and secured.\n“He said, 'After all the things I've done for [Trump]…'” Mr Inhofe said of Mr Pence’s private remarks.\nFor more than four years, Mr Pence has stood up for the president even during his greatest public controversies — from the Access Hollywood Tape, to Mr Trump’s refusal to admit Russian election interference in 2016, to his handling of the coronavirus pandemic.\nBut shortly before he was to gavel in the joint session of Congress on Wednesday, Mr Pence released a statement affirming he could not take “unilateral” action to block the Electoral College results, putting him directly at odds with his boss.\nCongress eventually certified President-elect Joe Biden’s 306-232 victory in the electoral college in the early hours of Thursday morning after an hours-long delay as law enforcement cleared the Capitol of rioters and created a new perimeter.\nMr Pence called the Wednesday’s riots by the pro-Trump mob a “dark day” and said he condemns the violence “in the strongest possible terms” as the Senate reconvened at 8pm to certify his boss’ election loss.\n“To those who wreaked havoc in our Capitol today: you did not win. Violence never wins. Freedom wins,” he said in remarks that stood in sharp contrast to a short video Mr Trump posted essentially defending the angry mob he incited at a rally around midday. “And this is still the people’s house. And as we reconvene in this chamber the world will again witness the resilience and strength of our democracy.”\nRead More\nBarr says Trump committed a ‘betrayal’ of the presidency amid riots\nArmy vet comforts fellow lawmaker while sheltering from Capitol riots\nProud Boys boast they caused 'absolute terror' during Capitol riot\nCongressman accuses Capitol Police of being ‘complicit’ in riots\nWhat is domestic terrorism?}}
{{EMBED >More News Videos Calls for President Trump to be removed from office are growing as the exodus from his administration continues.\nIt's a scene many could hardly imagine, hundreds upon hundreds of pro-Trump supporters storming the halls of Congress while Capitol police struggled to hold them off. The riot on Wednesday is drawing criticism and comparisons on the stance law enforcement took with Black Lives Matter protestors over the Summer."What I experienced was tear-gas being shot at me, rubber bullets being released on me and my friends," said Nia Miranda, an actress and activist. "It was chaos. We had officers dressed in SWAT clothing with rifles there, helicopters surrounding us everywhere. It was chaos and it wasn't started from the peaceful protesters."Some are calling it a failure of equal justice. Images that show one of the rioters taking a selfie with a police officer and video appearing to show another officer allowing the mob in through a barricade is raising questions."We would not have seen what we saw yesterday if it were black people. I say it would have been a massacre if it were black people trying to charge the Capitol," said Patrisse Cullors, a Black Lives Matter co-founder.Capitol police were brought in to protect the grounds of the nation's Capitol, its wasn't until after the pro-Trump mob forced their way inside that the National Guard arrived to help remove them. A stark contract to the National Guard that lined the steps of congress during a BLM march this past Summer."They had the military on the front stairs. We could not even consider breaking-in. Could not consider that. It just shows that white privilege is real and white supremacy is real," said Miranda.}}
{{This site uses cookies to help personalise content, tailor your experience and to keep you logged in if you register.\nBy continuing to use this site, you are consenting to our use of cookies.}}
{{CANDICE Owens, a vocal Donald Trump supporter, claimed this year’s election will be “the greatest rigging of an American election,” in part because of the continuous Coronavirus pandemic.\nWhen asked if Trump can win this year’s election, Owen’s told The Daily Caller, “This is the greatest rigging of an American election that we are all playing a part in right now.”\n5 Candice Owen's claimed 'This is the greatest rigging of an American election that we are all playing a part in right now,' when asked if Donald Trump can win the upcoming presidential election Credit: Twitter\nIn a tweet Owen’s added to her comments on the election saying, “Coronavirus is the greatest rigging of an American election that has ever taken place – and we are all unwitting participants.”\nOwens claimed the Left are using the pandemic to hide both their true policies and presidential candidate, Joe Biden, while preventing Trump from holding campaign events to tout his polices.\nOwens added that the Left is using the coronavirus to push for mail-in voting, “which allows for tons of rigging.”\n“You have them talking about mail-in voting, which we know is corrupt. We know it’s corruptible. We know that it allows for tons of rigging,” Owens said.\n5 Owen's followed up on her comments to the Daily Caller with a tweet saying, 'Coronavirus is the greatest rigging of an American election that has ever taken place – and we are all unwitting participants' Credit: Twitter\n5 Owens also claimed that the Left is using the coronavirus to push for mail-in voting, 'which allows for tons of rigging' Credit: Twitter\nTrump has also been critical on the push for mail-in voting for the upcoming election due to COVID-19, saying the United States Postal Service is “not prepared for something like this.”\nTrump also said that the Postal Service has been having issues for “decades,” and the system is not built to handle millions of mail-in ballots.\n“As you know, the Postal Service for 40 years has had big problems. They’re not equipped… It’s a very complex process,” Trump said.\n“Again, absentee is great, it works like in Florida they’ll do absentee, it works, but universal mail-in ballots is going to be a great embarrassment to our country.”\nA similar issue sprung up in New York City during the Congressional primary.\n5 President Donald Trump has been very vocal about the mail-in voting request, saying the Postal Service is not built to handle millions of mail-in ballots Credit: Alamy Live News\n5 Trump has said that the Postal Service for '40 years has had big problems,' saying 'they’re not equipped' to handle the process Credit: Getty Images - Getty\nJudge Analisa Torres of NYC forced the counting of more than 1,000 of the 12,500 disputed absentee ballots mailed in.\nUnder Judge Torres’ decision, ballots received on June 24, the day after Election Day, will be counted without regard to whether such ballots are postmarked by June 23.\nDemocratic challenger Suraj Patel, praised the decision and said the fiasco could foreshadow possible complications in the November presidential election.\nMost read in News NEW FORT HOOD TRAGEDY Base investigating death of a FOURTH soldier as body pulled from lake ‘NEVER RECOVERED’ Netflix star 'kills herself' aged 23 following 'brutal rape as a teen' HORROR CRASH At least 8 dead and 21 injured after 22 car pileup in Brazil caused by smoke FED UP THREAT Germany’s coronavirus second wave 'due to people bored of social distancing’ ‘SWEPT TO HER DEATH’ Autistic girl, 5, dies after 'wandering outside during storm flooding' HORROR SCENE ‘Cult mom’ Lori Vallow’s daughter’s 'skull & teeth found near melted bucket'\n“This is no longer a Democratic or a Republican fight, this is not an established versus progressive fight. This is now a fight for the voting rights of millions in a pandemic,” he told The New York Times.\nThe push for mail-in voting comes as the US continues to struggle to contain the spread of the coronavirus.\nA solution to limiting large gatherings prompted the idea of mail-in voting for the upcoming presidential election.}}
{{Sign up to FREE email alerts from Mirror - daily news Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email\nPolice in Minneapolis have been banned from using chokeholds following the death of George Floyd, according to US reports.\nAn agreement has been struck by negotiators for the city and the Minnesota Department of Human Rights which prohibits officers from using the neck restraint.\nThe ban will be enforceable in court which means if it is used by any officer the authorities must be notified immediately, reports Star Online.\nThe ban follows the death of the 46-year-old, which has sparked protests around the world after he was seen in a video pleading with Derek Chauvin that he could not breathe.\nDoctors ruled his death was homicide after an independent autopsy contradicted a state one that claimed Mr Floyd had not died of asphyxia but 'underlying health conditions'.\n(Image: Internet Unknown)\nDr Michael Baden, one of the doctors who performed the autopsy for Mr Floyd's family, said he died from "mechanical asphyxia".\nThe medic said Mr Floyd's death was caused by pressure on both the man's neck and by the knees of two officers on his back.\nThis deprived his body of oxygen and caused "neck and back compression that led to a lack of blood flow to the brain".\nIn an emailed release, Dr Baden said: “What we found is consistent with what people saw.\n"There is no other health issue that could cause or contribute to the death. Police have this false impression that if you can talk, you can breathe. That’s not true.”\nLawyer Ben Crump and co-counsel Antonio Romanucci, who represented the Floyd family, announced the findings of the autopsy on Monday afternoon.\nMr Crump said: "George died because he needed a breath. I implore all of us to take a breath for justice, to take a breath for peace, to take a breath for our country and to take a breath for George."\nChauvin has now been charged with second degree murder after initially being accused of a lesser third degree charge.\nHis three colleagues Thomas Lane, J. Alexander Kueng and Tou Thao are charged with aiding and abetting second-degree murder.\nMatt Hancock has urged people not to take part in mass demonstrations over My Floyd's death this weekend as they will be breaching lockdown rules.\nThe Health Secretary spoke about the heavily-attended protests that have taken place this week as he warned people coronavirus remains 'a real threat'.\nHe said: "Like so many I am appalled by the death of George Floyd and I understand why people are deeply upset but we are still facing a health crisis and coronavirus remains a real threat."}}
{{By PTI\nCOLLEGE PARK: The storming of the US Capitol is a jarring but natural product of years of violence and hateful rhetoric stoked by disinformation and conspiracy theories, experts on far-right extremism said as they pored over images of Wednesday's riot.\nMembers of far-right groups, including the violent Proud Boys, joined the crowds that formed in Washington to cheer on President Donald Trump as he urged them to protest Congress' counting of Electoral College votes confirming President-elect Joe Biden's win.\nThen they headed to the Capitol.\nMembers of smaller white supremacist and neo-Nazi groups also were spotted in the crowds.\nALSO READ | US Capitol violence in 10 pictures: When pro-Trump mob stormed the building to overturn election\nPolice were photographed stopping a man identified as a leading promoter of the QAnon conspiracy theory from storming the Senate floor.\nOnline forums popular with Trump supporters lit up with gleeful posts about the chaotic scenes broadcast from the Capitol.\nThousands of messages on Parler, a right-wing alternative to Twitter, included the hashtag #civilwar or other variations of the term.\n"If you're surprised, you haven't been paying attention," said Integrity First for America executive director Amy Spitalnick.\n"We should all be horrified by this, but nobody should be surprised that this is happening."\nSpitalnick's civil rights group is backing a federal lawsuit filed by victims of the violence that erupted at the August 2017 white nationalist "Unite the Right" rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, that left a counterprotester dead.\nOne of the far-right fringe figures who had been listed as a speaker at the Charlottesville rally was livestreaming video of the Capitol melee on Wednesday.\nTim "Baked Alaska" Gionet posted video that showed Trump supporters in "Make America Great Again" and "God Bless Trump" hats milling around and taking selfies with officers who calmly asked them to leave the premises.\nThe Trump supporters talked among themselves, laughed, and told the officers and each other: "This is only the beginning."\nThe crowd of Trump supporters at the Capitol also included adherents of the "Groyper Army," a loose network of white supremacists that includes "America First" podcaster Nick Fuentes.\nJonathan Greenblatt, CEO of the Anti-Defamation League, said the mob's actions were "clearly consistent" with the conspiratorial rhetoric of QAnon, the baseless belief that Trump has been secretly fighting deep state enemies and a cabal of Satan-worshipping cannibals operating a child sex trafficking ring.\n"QAnon has been calling on this kind of madness for years," Greenblatt said.}}
{{Minneapolis — The jury has reached a verdict at the murder trial of former Minneapolis police Officer Derek Chauvin in the death of George Floyd. The verdict is to be read late Tuesday afternoon.\nFloyd died last May after Chauvin, a white officer, pinned his knee on the 46-year-old Black man’s neck for about 9 1/2 minutes in a case that triggered worldwide protests, violence and a furious reexamination of racism and policing in the U.S.\nThe jury deliberated over parts of two days in a city on edge against another outbreak of unrest.\nThe racially diverse jury — anonymous and sequestered from the outside world — resumed deliberations in the morning as lawmakers and fellow citizens alike delivered their own opinions about the combustible case that triggered protests, scattered violence and a reckoning over racism in the U.S.\n“It shouldn’t be really even questioned whether there will be an acquittal or a verdict that doesn’t meet the scale of the crime that was committed,” Rep. Ilhan Omar, a Democrat, said in Brooklyn Center, a suburb just outside Minneapolis. The congresswoman said the Chauvin case looks open-and-shut.\nGuilty verdicts could mark a turning point in the fight for racial equality, she said.\n“We are holding on to one another for support. Hopefully this verdict will come soon and the community will start the process of healing,” Omar said.\nIn Washington, the president said that he had spoken to Floyd’s family on Monday and “can only imagine the pressure and anxiety they’re feeling.”\n“They’re a good family and they’re calling for peace and tranquility no matter what that verdict is,” Biden said. “I’m praying the verdict is the right verdict. I think it’s overwhelming, in my view. I wouldn’t say that unless the jury was sequestered now.”\nThe president has repeatedly denounced Floyd’s death but previously stopped short of commenting on the trial itself.\nProsecutors argued that Chauvin squeezed the life out of Floyd last May when the white officer knelt on or near the 46-year-old Black man’s neck for 9 1/2 minutes. The defense contended that the now-fired white officer acted reasonably and that a heart condition and illegal drug use led to Floyd’s death.\nThe jury of six white people and six people who are Black or multiracial spent just a few hours on their task Monday after the day was mostly consumed by closing arguments.\nChauvin, 45, is charged with second-degree murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter The most serious charge carries up to 40 years in prison.\nAhead of a verdict, some stores were boarded up in Minneapolis, the courthouse was ringed with concrete barriers and razor wire, and National Guard troops were on patrol. Last spring, Floyd’s death set off protests along with vandalism and arson in Minneapolis.\nThe city has also been on edge in recent days over the deadly police shooting of a 20-year-old Black man, Daunte Wright, in Brooklyn Center on April 11.\nBrooklyn Center Mayor Mike Elliott joined a group of residents Tuesday to call for transparency and accountability in policing.\nThe mayor said he has met with Wright’s family several times and vowed to “do all that’s within our power to make sure that we are implementing the kind of changes that would prevent another Daunte.”\n“What this community is saying is that his life is going to continue to matter,” Elliott said.\nDoris Rendell, who is Black, burst into tears as she was standing in front of a memorial set up at the site of Daunte Wright’s death. She says the Wright case and the Floyd case reminded her of her own negative interactions with police when she was young.\n“It’s terrible, it’s terrible to be black, to say that... It is. There’s so much racism out here, it’s pathetic ... It’s like there’s no justice in the world for us. It’s like we’re a piece of a bean in a pie just getting picked off, just no one cares.\nAfter the jury got the Chauvin case Monday, Judge Peter Cahill rejected a defense request for a mistrial based in part on comments from California Rep. Maxine Waters, who said “we’ve got to get more confrontational” if Chauvin isn’t convicted of murder.\nThe judge called her comments “abhorrent” and “disrespectful to the rule of law and to the judicial branch” and told Chauvin’s attorney that Waters “may have given you something on appeal that may result in this whole trial being overturned.”\nStill, two defense attorneys in Minnesota said they consider a successful appeal over remarks like Waters’ or Biden’s extremely unlikely.\n“Anybody who thinks undue publicity is going to get a case reversed in this day and age is just wrong,” said Joe Friedberg, who is unconnected to the case. “Just from a pragmatic standpoint, with social media, I don’t think it can ever be done again.”\nBrock Hunter, past president of the Minnesota Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, said a successful appeal would be unlikely unless there were direct evidence that Waters’ statements affected jurors.}}
{{👋 Welcome to Digg\nThanks for creating an account! Your accounts lets you Digg (upvote) stories, save stories to revisit later, and more.\n📩 Stay up-to-date\nEmail will be sent to:\nSelect the newsletters you’d like to receive. You can change your subscriptions any time in your user settings.\nDaily morning newsletter Afternoon video roundup Bitcoin Long Reads}}
{{Three of the President Donald Trump's riotous supporters, including a newly elected West Virginia politician, faced federal charges Saturday for their high-profile appearances in the U.S. Capitol riots that left five people dead.\nEach of the men was photographed or caught on video during Wednesday’s violent insurrection after Trump delivered a two-hour harangue insisting his loss to President-elect Joe Biden came in a rigged election.\nTwo became literal poster boys for the despicable event: One for walking off with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s official lectern, the other for posing shirtless while seated in Vice President Mike Pence’s chair on the Senate floor.\nThe third, politician Derrick Evans, was busted in part when investigators compared his voice on a live-streamed video from the Capitol with his voice-over from a campaign ad, according to court documents.\n“Our house! Our house!” Evans shouts in the Capitol video.\nAdam Johnson, the Florida resident photographed while lugging the lectern with the speaker’s seal during the wild Wednesday rampage, wasn’t laughing Saturday.\nJohnson, 36, of Bradenton, Fla., was taken into custody shortly after 9 p.m. Friday and held without bail on a warrant issued by federal marshals, authorities said.\nJohnson, the father of five, was photographed while gleefully toting the lectern through the Capitol in the midst of Wednesday’s rioting — with the photo instantly going viral.\nHe also posed while wearing a “TRUMP” ski cap for a second photo alongside a sign reading “Closed to all tours” inside the building, authorities said.\nFellow rioter Jacob Anthony Chansley — better known as “QAnon Shaman” Jake Angeli — was arrested Saturday for wandering shirtless through the Capitol with his face painted red, white and blue while wearing a horned headdress. Investigators noted his “unique attire and extensive tattoos” in identifying the 32-year-old suspect.\nAdditionally, according to court documents, Chansley actually called the FBI’s Washington Field Office to confirm he was the bizarrely clad man seen sitting in Pence’s seat.\nAuthorities also noted he was carrying a 6-foot spear festooned with an American flag tied just below the blade.\nThe self-proclaimed shaman said he was under the sway of Trump when he traveled from Arizona to the nation’s capital, answering the president’s request for all “patriots” to attend the rally-turned-riot, court papers alleged..\nLast but hardly least was newly elected West Virginia House of Delegates member Derrick Evans, 35, spotted in a live Facebook stream as he joined rioters in unlawfully entering the Capitol, court documents said.\n“We’re in, we’re in!” shouted the law-breaking lawmaker two days before his Friday arrest. “Derrick Evans is in the Capitol!”\nEvans, who issued a post-riot statement Wednesday claiming went to the Capitol “as an independent member of the media to film history,” had previously revealed his true motivation on social media, officials said.\n“This is why we’re are going to DC #StopTheSteal,” he wrote hours before the rioting, in a retweet of a Trump tweet claiming 4,000 bogus ballots were found in Fulton County, Ga.\nOne rioter was shot dead by Capitol Police, one police officer was killed by rioters, and three other demonstrators died during the violence fomented by Trump in the first assault on the Capitol since a British attack in 1814.}}
{{HOUSTON, Texas -- Members of George Floyd's family are scheduled to join U.S. Representative Sheila Jackson Lee on Saturday to speak about his death and the events that have followed.Before he died after being pinned for minutes beneath a Minneapolis police officer's knee, George Floyd was suffering the same fate as millions of Americans during the coronavirus pandemic: out of work and looking for a new job.Floyd moved to Minneapolis from his native Houston several years ago in hopes of finding work and starting a new life, said Christopher Harris, Floyd's lifelong friend. But he lost his job as a bouncer at a restaurant when Minnesota's governor issued a stay-at-home order.On Monday night, an employee at a Minneapolis grocery store called police after Floyd allegedly tried to pass a counterfeit $20 bill.In widely circulated cellphone video of the subsequent arrest, Floyd, who was black, can be seen on the ground with his hands cuffed behind his back while Officer Derek Chauvin presses him to the pavement with his knee on Floyd's neck. The video shows Chauvin, who is white, holding Floyd down for minutes as Floyd complains he can't breathe. The video ends with paramedics lifting a limp Floyd onto a stretcher and placing him in an ambulance.Four officers were fired Tuesday; on Wednesday, Mayor Jacob Frey called for Chauvin to be criminally charged. Frey made no mention of the other three officers, who were also at the scene.Police say Floyd was resisting arrest, but Chauvin's lawyer has declined to comment and the other officers have not been publicly identified.Floyd, 46, grew up in Houston's Third Ward, one of the city's predominantly black neighborhoods, where he and Harris met in middle school. At 6 feet, 6 inches, Floyd emerged as a star tight end for Jack Yates High School and played in the 1992 state championship game in the Houston Astrodome. Yates lost to Temple, 38-20.Donnell Cooper, one of Floyd's former classmates, said he remembered watching Floyd score touchdowns. Floyd towered over everyone and earned the nickname "gentle giant.""Quiet personality but a beautiful spirit," Cooper said. His death "definitely caught me by surprise. It's just so sad, the world we're living in now."Floyd was charged in 2007 with armed robbery in a home invasion in Houston and in 2009 was sentenced to five years in prison as part of a plea deal, according to court documents.Harris, Floyd's childhood friend, said he and some of their mutual friends had moved to Minneapolis in search of jobs around 2014. Harris said he talked Floyd into moving there as well after he got out of prison."He was looking to start over fresh, a new beginning," Harris said. "He was happy with the change he was making."Floyd landed a job working security at a Salvation Army store in downtown Minneapolis. He later started working two jobs, one driving trucks and another as a bouncer at Conga Latin Bistro, where he was known as "Big Floyd.""Always cheerful," Jovanni Tunstrom, the bistro's owner, said. "He had a good attitude. He would dance badly to make people laugh. I tried to teach him how to dance because he loved Latin music, but I couldn't because he was too tall for me. He always called me 'Bossman.' I said, 'Floyd, don't call me Bossman. I'm your friend."Harris said Floyd was laid off when Minnesota shut down restaurants as part of a stay-at-home order. He said he spoke with Floyd on Sunday night and gave him some information for contacting a temporary jobs agency."He was doing whatever it takes to maintain going forward with his life," Harris said, adding he couldn't believe that Floyd would resort to forgery. "I've never known him to do anything like that."Floyd leaves behind a 6-year-old daughter who still lives in Houston with her mother, Roxie Washington, the Houston Chronicle reported. Efforts to reach Washington on Wednesday were unsuccessful."The way he died was senseless," Harris said. "He begged for his life. He pleaded for his life. When you try so hard to put faith in this system, a system that you know isn't designed for you, when you constantly seek justice by lawful means and you can't get it, you begin to take the law into your own hands."}}
{{expatmedic RT @cvpayne: Minnesota Governor Walz saying straight up riots are organized efforts to cause destruction have nothing to do with tragic mur… 1 second ago Capitano National Guard to be ‘FULLY MOBILIZED’ in Minnesota as governor brands George Floyd protests ‘attack’ on civil soci… https://t.co/cDeTsfK1hZ 9 seconds ago Chris Waiss RT @ElmaAksalic: Minnesota Governor Tim Walz: "Let's be very clear, the situation in Minneapolis is no longer in any way about the murder… 16 seconds ago .wdabbs1 Minnesota Governor authorizes 'full mobilization' of state's National Guard, says protests no longer about death of… https://t.co/fyNSoI7ja4 31 seconds ago Marcia La Résistance (@🏡) RT @paz4u: Outside groups such as #WhiteNationalist extremists are using protests across country as cover for acts of violence & destructio… 35 seconds ago Pete George Floyd Death: Minnesota Governor Decries Violent Protests - The Lighthouse Christian Forum https://t.co/GAv9qHXTFH 41 seconds ago The TN Did You Guys Hear Walz Say This? I did! Seriously? WTH? On Friday night, Walz hinted that white supremacists… https://t.co/sMoRiPsApd 43 seconds ago ranyadu RT @BBCWorld: Violent protests over the death of George Floyd "are no longer in any way" about his killing, Minnesota governor says https:… 1 minute ago}}
{{Health Minister Hassan Hamad said the preliminary toll was at least 50 dead and 2,700 wounded. Emergency teams streamed in from across Lebanon to help, and the injured had to be taken to hospitals outside the capital. Hamad added that hospitals were barely coping and offers of aid were pouring in from Arab states and friends of Lebanon.}}
{{2 people from Western Pennsylvania charged in connection with Capitol riot Share Shares Copy Link Copy\nHide Transcript Show Transcript\nTO WASHINGTON, D.C., FROM WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA AND BROKE THE LAW. >> WE’RE BETTER THAN THIS. THE REST OF THE WORLD IS WATCHING HOW WE RESPOND. KATELYN: U.S. ATTORNEY SCOTT BRADY SAYS WHAT WE SAW AT OUR NATION’S CAPITOL, THIS, IS COMPLETELY UNACCEPTABLE. THAT THE FIRST AMENDMENT DOESN’T ALLOW PROTEST AS A COVER TO INCITE VIOLENCE. AND HE WANTS TO KNOW IF ANYONE IN THIS CROWD IS FROM WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA. >> I THINK IT’S IMPORTANT THAT THE PEOPLE UNDERSTAND IF YOU TRA TRAVEL FROM WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA TO ENGAGE IN VIOLENCE TO ENCITE A RIOT THEN YOU COULD BE PROSECUTE FEDERALLY AND WE ARE GOING TO INVESTIGATE THAT. KATELYN: BRADY SAID HE KNOWS PEOPLE FROM THE AREA TRAVELED TO WASHINGTON, D.C., TO EXERCISE THEIR FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHTS, AND PITTSBURGH’S ACTION NEWS 4 SPOKE TO SEVERAL YESTERDAY. BRADY SAID THE VAST MAJORITY DID SO PEACEFULLY, BUT HIS OFFICE IS ALREADY TRYING TO DETERMINE IF ANYONE LOCALLY BROKE THE LAW >> I WAS SPEAKING WITH THE HEAD OF THE FBI THIS MORNING. WE ARE GOING TO START TO COLLECT INFORMATION, BOTH FROM THE CAPITOL POLICE AND WHAT WE SAW ON SOCIAL MEDIA, AND TRY TO IDENTIFY IF THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO ENGAGED IN VIOLENCE AND TRAVELED FOM WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA. KATELYN: BRADY SAID HIS OFFICE WILL BE LOOKING CLOSELY AT THOSE WHO BREACHED THE BARRIERS AND ENGAGED IN DESTRUCTION WITHIN THE CAPITOL OR ATTACKED CAPITOL POLICE. THOSE THAT DID WILL BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE, AND ANY ADDITIONAL VIOLENCE BACK HERE AT HOME WON’T BE TOLERATED EITHER. >> THERE’S A FEAR THAT VIOLENCE MAY SPREAD IN OTHER AREAS FROM WHAT WE SAW IN WASHINGTON. THAT WILL NOT HAPPEN IN WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA BECAUSE WE WILL BE HERE AND WE WILL PUT A STOP TO THAT IF THAT HAPPENS. PEOPLE WILL BE CHARGED FEDERALLY IF THEY RIOT AND THEY INCITE VIOL}}
{{CAIRO: A nurse pictured carrying three newborn babies at a hospital damaged in the Beirut explosion has described being knocked unconscious by the blast.\nPamela Zeinoun has been hailed as a hero for cradling the babies amid the chaos following the explosion.\nThe nurse was knocked out inside the maternity ward when the blast hit.\nOpinion This section contains relevant reference points, placed in (Opinion field)\nShe told Al Arabiya that when she came around, she immediately ran to save the five newborn babies inside the neonatal intensive care unit at Al Roum Hospital in Ashrafieh district.\n“I managed to carry three between my arms, and my colleague carried the other two,” she said. “My main concern was to ensure their safety, because they’re very weak.”\nThe photo of Zeinoun was shared by the photographer Bilal Jawich shortly after the explosion ripped through the Lebanese capital, killing at least 137 people, injuring more than 5,000, and damaging up to 300,000 homes.\nJawich said he took the picture from inside the hospital, which is just a few kilometers from the port.\nHe said that throughout his 16-year career, he has never seen anything like what happened on Tuesday. He praised the nurse for her heroism and for saving the newborns and refusing to let go of them during this critical time.\n“I was amazed when I saw the nurse holding three newborns,” Jawich told CNN Arabic, adding that the hospital was littered with rubble and several bodies were strewn across the floor upon his arrival.\n“I noticed the nurse's calm, which contrasted with the surrounding atmosphere just one meter away.\n“The nurse looked like she possessed a hidden force that gave her self-control and the ability to save those children. People stand out amidst these violent and dark and evil circumstances and this nurse was up to the task,” he said.}}
{{https://www.wnd.com/2021/01/mob-fed-lies-mcconnell-says-trump-provoked-capitol-riot/\nOpening the Senate on Tuesday, Republican Majority Leader Mitch McConnell charged that the Trump supporters who breached the U.S. Capitol were “provoked” by the president, who fed them lies about the outcome of the 2020 election.\n“The mob was fed lies,” McConnell said. “They were provoked by the president and other powerful people, and they tried to use fear and violence to stop a specific proceeding of branch of the federal government.”\nIn his final full day as the Senate leader, McConnell promised to “move forward” after helping carry out a “safe and successful” inauguration of Democrat Joe Biden on Wednesday at the Capitol amid unprecedented security.\nMeanwhile, Rush Limbaugh told his massive audience on Tuesday “the mystery is now over and we now know where McConnell and the Republican leadership stand.”\nTRENDING: ‘Impeach Barack Obama’: Lindsey Graham suggests liberals’ worst nightmare\n“McConnell wants you to know [lawmakers] were not intimidated,” Limbaugh said. “They were not in any way inspired to quit. … They said an angry mob would not get veto power over our nation, by golly.”\nSee McConnell’s remarks:\nShortly after Biden’s inauguration, the Democrats will take over leadership of the Senate with the swearing-in of three new Democratic senators. With a 50-50 split in the chamber, the new vice president, Kamala Harris, will be the tie-breaking vote.\nDo you agree with Mitch McConnell on this issue? 0% (0 Votes) 100% (1 Votes)\nBiden’s nominee for Department of Homeland Security secretary,\nAlejandro Mayorkas, said during his confirmation hearing he would do all he can to ensure “the desecration of the building that stands as one of the three pillars of our democracy, and the terror felt by you, your colleagues, staff, and everyone present, will not happen again.”\nThe Biden team has told media the new president wants the Senate to split its time each day between handling the proposed $1.9 trillion stimulus package and the impeachment trial.\nThe Democratic-led House impeached Trump last week on a charge of incitement of insurrection. Constitutional scholars are divided on whether or not a president who already has left office can be convicted.\nRaphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff, who won the hotly contested runoffs in Georgia earlier this month, and Alex Padilla of California, who is succeeding Kamala Harris, will be sworn in Wednesday.\nMitchell and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer will meet to negotiate a power-sharing agreement that will include dividing committee assignments.\nContent created by the WND News Center is available for re-publication without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].\nShare this: Twitter\nFacebook}}
{{Money and Business\nA cataclysmic blast in Beirut, Lebanon’s capital, is poised to send an economy already deep in crisis hurtling toward a dangerous unknown.\nOn Tuesday, a massive explosion at the city’s port left at least 135 people dead and 5,000 injured. The number of deaths is expected to climb as search-and-rescue efforts continue.\nThe blast, which also leveled huge swaths of Beirut and displaced 300,000 people, couldn’t come at a worse moment.\nIn the past year, a breakdown in the country’s banking system and skyrocketing inflation had triggered mass protests. Even before the Covid-19 pandemic hit, the World Bank projected that 45% of people in Lebanon would be below the poverty line in 2020.\n“It’s an economic crisis, a financial crisis, a political crisis, a health crisis and now this horrible explosion,” said Tamara Alrifai, spokesperson at the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East.\nEuropean and Gulf countries have sent aid to help Lebanon manage the fallout from the blast, and the country’s central bank instructed lenders to make zero-interest dollar loans to be repaid over the next five years so people and businesses can rebuild. But it’s expected to fall far short of what the country needs to pull back from the brink, and some donors may be deterred by widespread corruption and mismanagement.\nFrench President Emmanuel Macron, who was mobbed by angry crowds during a tour of devastated Beirut neighborhoods on Thursday, said France would provide medication and food, but not via corrupt officials.\n“This aid, I guarantee it, won’t end up in corrupt hands,” he told Lebanese protesters, according to a spokesperson.\nMacron told reporters later that France would help organize an international conference to raise funds for Lebanon. He promised “clear and transparent governance, whether it’s French or international” to ensure the money is “directly provided to the local population, the NGOs and teams on site that need it.”\nEconomy in free fall\nThe economic situation in Lebanon was grim before the explosion.\nThe International Monetary Fund last forecast that Lebanon’s economy — beset by soaring food prices, a collapsing currency and Covid-19 — would contract by 12% this year. That’s far worse than the 4.7% average drop in output forecast for the Middle East and central Asia.\nThe country defaulted on some of its debt in March. And last week, Moody’s cut Lebanon’s credit rating to its lowest rank. It’s now on par with Venezuela.\n“The country is steeped in an economic, financial and social crisis, which very weak institutions … appear unable to address,” Moody’s said in a statement. The currency’s collapse and the related surge in inflation create a “highly unstable environment,” it continued.\nLebanon had been looking to secure a $10 billion loan from the IMF, but talks stalled last month.\nOn Thursday, IMF chief Kristalina Georgieva called for “national unity” to address the country’s deep crisis, and she said the agency is “exploring all possible ways to support the people of Lebanon.”\n“It is essential to overcome the impasse in the discussions on critical reforms and put in place a meaningful program to turn around the economy and build accountability and trust in the future of the country,” she added.\nThe explosion in Beirut, which has been declared a “disaster city,” will only pile more pressure on the economy.\n“There is not one apartment in Beirut that wasn’t impacted, not one [business] that wasn’t impacted — whether the storefront [or] the goods,” Lebanon’s Economy Minister Raoul Nehme told CNBC Arabia on Wednesday.\nThe port where the blast occurred is the nation’s main maritime hub, and 60% of the country’s imports pass through it. Nehme said it has been “practically erased.”\nTourism accounted for nearly a fifth of Lebanon’s GDP in 2018, when two million people visited the country. That sector has suffered another huge hit.\n“It’s a disaster for Lebanon,” said Pierre Achkar, head of the Lebanon Hotel Federation for Tourism. He said occupancy rates at the hotels still open had already slumped to 5% and 15% because of coronavirus and political issues.\nAchkar told the state news agency NNA on Wednesday that the explosion damaged 90% of the hotels in Beirut.\n— Chris Liakos, Nada AlThaher, Schams Elwazer, Barbara Wojazer and Sharon Braithwaite contributed to this article.}}
{{MINNEAPOLIS -- The jury deciding the fate of former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin in the death of George Floyd has reached a verdict, according to the Minnesota Judicial Branch. It will be read around 3:30 p.m. CT.\nChauvin is facing second- and third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter charges in Floyd's death.\nThe 12 members of the jury include four people who identify as Black, two who identify as multiracial and six people who identify as white; there are seven women and five men.\nFloyd died after being pinned down on the pavement for several minutes by multiple officers from the Minneapolis Police Department. Officers had originally responded to the Cup Foods store after Floyd allegedly tried to use a counterfeit bill.\nWidely-shared video from a bystander showed Chauvin with his knee on Floyd’s neck and back for more than nine minutes while the man struggled to breathe and called out for help.\nFloyd’s death sparked several months of protests against police brutality and racial injustice throughout the country last summer.\nDuring the trial and closing arguments, prosecutors tried to keep the jury focused on that nine-minute span and the actions that were, or were not, taken. They called several medical experts who said Floyd died from asphyxia, or a low level of oxygen that caused his heart and brain to stop working.\n"A healthy person subjected to what Mr. Floyd was subjected to would have died," pulmonologist Dr. Martin Tobin told the jury.\nThe prosecution also included testimony from the Minneapolis chief of police and department trainers on what kind of training officers receive in regard to handling situations with subjects.\nIn what is called “spark of life” testimony, the prosecution called witnesses to give the jury an impression of who Floyd was before his death. This included emotional testimony from his girlfriend and his brother, Philonise Floyd.\nThe defense argued underlying medical factors, drug use and potentially carbon monoxide poisoning from cars on the road contributed to Floyd’s death, and that other circumstances may have justified Chauvin’s use of force at the time.\nAttorney Eric Nelson tried to inject reasonable doubt about the exact cause of Floyd’s death; like asking the medical examiner about other factors he listed on the official death certificate, including heart disease and hypertension. Nelson also found training materials that appeared to include a maneuver where an officer would use their knee on a subject’s back to subdue them.\nAfter the 12 jurors and two alternates were selected in March, 45 witnesses were called to testify over 14 days of presenting evidence.\nThe jury was sequestered during their deliberations, however they were able to return home each night during the trial.\nAfter the jury had been given the case on April 19, the defense made a motion for a mistrial following statements from a congresswoman about the trial, reports of tv shows with fictional storylines that appeared to reference the trial, and other media coverage the jury may have been exposed to.\nRep. Maxine Waters on April 17 told protesters in Minneapolis to get “more confrontational” if there was no guilty verdict.\nWhile the judge said the statements from lawmakers were “abhorrent,” he did not think they “mattered that much” and “did not unfairly prejudice the jury.” He denied the motion, however he admitted that the situation may be material for a possible appeal.\nThree other officers who were at the scene when Floyd died are also facing charges. The trials for Alexander Kueng, Thomas Lane and Tou Thao will be held later this summer. Each face two charges: aiding and abetting both second-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.}}
{{CHICAGO — One of President Trump’s most vocal supporters in Chicago says some of the blame for the siege of the United States Capitol rests with the commander-in-chief; but John Catanzara says it’s wrong to discount the frustrations of the more than 70 million Americans who voted for the president.\n“Do I get why people showed up there? Absolutely. Do I agree with their frustration? I share it 100-percent,” Catanzara told WGN.\nThe tough-talking head of Chicago’s Fraternal Order of Police Lodge has a Trump flag on his desk and a framed picture of a presidential tweet praising him. He has attempted Trump rallies and is even facing discipline for posting a photo to social media appearing to praise the president’s message while in uniform.\nLike the president himself, Catanzara questions the legitimacy of the vote count.\n“I don’t agree with storming the building at all,” Catanzara said. “The president has to own a little responsibility for that. His words in that rally did not help…they only made it worse. But they don’t get total blame. We’re talking about adults. Personal responsibility goes a long way with me.”\nMany have questioned the flat-footed response of U.S. Capitol Police and the fact so few were arrested for storming the building.\nIt’s drawn comparisons to the heavy-handed response to Black Lives Matters protests in Washington, D.C. this summer that included tear gas, military helicopters, mass arrests and violent encounters between police and protesters.\n“People always want to make it a racial thing,” Catanzara responded.\nHe argues the apparently pro-Trump rioters who crashed the Capitol were nowhere near as violent as demonstrators in other cities.\n“Even the ones going after officers, I didn’t see any of them throwing frozen bottles, bricks or shooting fireworks at police. They were simply pushing past police to get access to the building,” Catanzara said. “Still criminal behavior, no doubt. But that’s not the level of violence we saw across many parts of the country this summer. It was totally different.”\nMore than 50 U.S. Capitol and Washington, D.C metro police officers were injured in the Capitol attack. Several were hospitalized with injuries described as “serious.” Some report being hit with lead pipes.}}
{{The full Minnesota National Guard was activated for the first time since World War Two after four nights of sometimes violent protests that have spread to other US cities following the killing of a black man by a white Minneapolis police officer who knelt on his neck.\nMinnesota Governor Tim Walz said the deployment was needed because outsiders were using the demonstrations over the death of George Floyd to spread chaos, and that he expected Saturday night's protests to be the most intense so far.\nMore:\nWalz said he also considering the potential offer of federal military police, but he warned that even that might not be enough.\n"We do not have the numbers," Walz said. "We cannot arrest people when we are trying to hold ground."\nWalz blamed much of the destruction in Minneapolis on Friday night on well-organised, out-of-state instigators whose goal was to "destabilise civil society".\nHe said he believed a "tightly controlled" group of outside agitators, some white supremacist groups and drug cartels were to blame for some of the violence in Minneapolis, but he did not give specifics when asked by reporters. He said as many as 80 percent of those arrested were from out-of-state.\nMinnesota National Guard General Jon Jensen said all the state's guardsmen had been activated, and that 2,500 of them would be mobilized by noon. "It means we're all in," Jensen said.\nMeanwhile, the Pentagon on Saturday ordered the army to put military police units on alert to head to the city on short notice at President Donald Trump's request, according to the Associated Press news agency, citing three people with direct knowledge of the orders who did not want their names used because they were not authorised to discuss the preparations.\nProtests erupted in cities across the US, including in New York City, Atlanta, Washington DC and Denver [Michael Ciaglo/Getty Images/AFP]\nNationwide protests\nThe death on Monday in Minneapolis of George Floyd has sparked demonstrations, some peaceful and some of them violent, in many cities across the nation, including one in Washington DC, on Friday.\nFrom Minneapolis to New York City, Atlanta and Washington, angry protesters took to the streets over the treatment of minorities by law enforcement.\nThe demonstrations broke out for a fourth night despite prosecutors announcing on Friday that the policeman involved in Floyd's death, Derek Chauvin, had been arrested on third-degree murder and manslaughter charges.\nGraphic video footage taken on an onlooker's cellphone and widely circulated on the internet shows 46-year-old Floyd - with Chauvin's knee pressed into his neck - gasping for air and repeatedly groaning, "Please, I can't breathe," while a crowd of bystanders shouted at police to let him up.\nThree other officers have been fired and are being investigated in connection with Monday's incident, which reignited rage that civil rights activists said has long simmered in Minneapolis and cities across the country over persistent racial bias in the US criminal justice system.\nIn Detroit late on Friday, a 19-year-old man was shot dead at a demonstration by a suspect who fired from a sports utility vehicle then fled, local media reported. Police made no immediate comment.\nMany of the protesters chanted, "No justice, no peace," and some carried signs that read, "End police brutality" and "I won't stop yelling until everyone can breathe".\nThousands of demonstrators also filled the streets of New York City's Brooklyn borough near the Barclays Center arena. Police armed with batons and pepper spray made scores of arrests.\nIn lower Manhattan, demonstrators at a "We can't breathe" rally demanded legislation to outlaw the chokehold used by a city police officer in the 2014 death of Eric Garner, who was also Black.\nAngry protesters took to the streets over the treatment of minorities by law enforcement[Carlos Barria/Reuters]\nWhite House demonstration\nIn Washington DC, police and secret service agents deployed in force around the White House before dozens of demonstrators gathered across the street in Lafayette Square.\nPresident Donald Trump said early on Saturday that he had watched the protest from his window, and, if the demonstrators had breached the fence, "they would have been greeted with the most vicious dogs and most ominous weapons, I have ever seen."\n"That's when people would have been really badly hurt, at least," Trump wrote on Twitter. "Many Secret Service agents just waiting for action."\nTrump accused Washington DC Mayor Muriel Bowser of refusing to send police to help the US Secret Service, although the Washington Post reported that city officers did help control the later gathering.\nThe mayor's office and the DC police did not immediately respond to requests for comment.\nOn Friday, Trump drew a warning from Twitter and condemnation from Democrats after posting a comment that "looting leads to shooting," suggesting protesters who turned to looting could be fired upon.}}
{{WASHINGTON — One sure sign that the violence that wracked the Capitol on Wednesday was broadly unacceptable to President Donald Trump’s usual allies was how quickly some blamed people other than the president and his base of supporters.\nFrom the House floor, Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Fla., a Trump ally, cited “pretty compelling evidence from a facial recognition company” that he claimed showed that “some of the people who breached the Capitol today were not Trump supporters.” Instead, they were “masquerading as Trump supporters and, in fact, were members of the violent terrorist group antifa.”\nAntifa is a frequent target of Trump’s. The loose-knit ideology isn’t generally manifested in any sort of formal organization, but that very nebulousness has allowed Trump and others to use it as a blanket descriptor for any person or group that can be cast as left-wing and dangerous. Hence Gaetz’s elevation of the claim: If someone somewhere is doing something that is a problem for the country, Trump or someone linked to him will probably finagle an antifa allegation into the mix.\nGaetz wasn’t alone. On Fox News Channel’s prime-time shows, hosts and guests similarly claimed that perhaps the mob was spurred on by antifa. The fringier networks that have blossomed in the wake of the election made similar claims.\nThe genesis for the assertion appears to be an article published by the right-wing Washington Times claiming that a “retired military officer” had provided information from a firm called XRVision that used facial recognition software to identify several people who invaded the Capitol — and that two of them were linked to antifa. A third was “someone who shows up at climate and Black Lives Matter protests in the West.”\nIn a statement to The Washington Post, XRVision executive Yaacov Apelbaum denied that his firm had provided any such analysis.\nAdvertising\n“XRVision didn’t generate any composites or detection imagery for the Washington Times nor for a ‘retired military officer,’ ” Apelbaum said, “and did not authorize them to make any such representations.”\nWhat happened, Apelbaum explained, was that the firm “performed an analysis on the footage” and, in doing so, was able to identify three people.\n“We concluded that two of individuals … were affiliated with the Maryland Skinheads and the National Socialist Movements,” the firm determined. “These two are known Nazi organizations, they are not Antifa. The third individual identified … was an actor with some QAnon promotion history. Again, no Antifa identification was made for him either.”\nXRVision did create graphics comparing people who had been at the Capitol with other photographs, Apelbaum said, which “were distributed to a handful of individuals for their private consumption and not for publication.”\nOne of the graphics includes a photograph of two people that can also be found on the website Philly Antifa. As noted by Twitter user Respectable Lawyer, though, the reason the photo of those people is on the website isn’t that they are antifa, but that they were believed to be fascists. That’s the “fa” in antifa: The ideology is predicated on combating fascism.\nSomehow, the identification by XRVision — which, we should note, is itself not confirmed — was blended with the antifa website, perhaps by searching for the people’s names on the internet. That became “these two guys are antifa” when it appears that, instead, they were targeted by antifa adherents as opponents. Someone then shared that incorrect connection with the Times. (Apelbaum’s statement asserts that they’ve demanded the Washington Times retract its story. The Washington Times removed the story, which can still be seen at the Internet Archive.)\nAdvertising\nIf there’s a silver lining to this claim that antifa was somehow involved in the mob’s actions, it’s that it is at least rooted in something resembling evidence. It’s wrong, but at least it’s not simply unsubstantiated rumors without any attempt at verification.\nFor that, we turn to Rep. Mo Brooks. R-Ala., who tweeted:\n“Please, don’t be like #FakeNewsMedia, don’t rush to judgment on assault on Capitol. Wait for investigation. All may not be (and likely is not) what appears. Evidence growing that fascist ANTIFA orchestrated Capitol attack with clever mob control tactics. Evidence follows:”\nThe evidence that followed:\nA member of Congress told him that there was an antifa threat. A member of Congress told him that a Capitol Police officer speculated that antifa might infiltrate the pro-Trump crowd. Capitol Police advised against leaving the Capitol complex on Tuesday. A vague reference to other evidence.\nWith all due respect to the gentleman from Alabama, none of that is evidence. It is all hearsay, and not even necessarily hearsay that bolsters the point. The identity of the member or members of Congress providing those warnings to Brooks is not disclosed, but anyone familiar with recent events can probably identify some likely contenders.\nWhat we know about the crowd at the Capitol was that many, if not most, were wearing clothing or carrying flags that identified them as Trump supporters. We know that Trump viewed them as allies to the extent that he posted a video on Twitter in which he expressed “love” for them. We know, too, that there was some anti-antifa sentiment on display from the group.\nEven if it were the case that two demonstrated members of antifa were among the mob Wednesday, it’s hard to see how that shifts responsibility for what occurred away from Trump’s supporters. It’s analogous to Trump’s claims two years ago that the presence of possible terrorists in immigrants arriving at the U.S.-Mexico border precipitated a crisis demanding the construction of a wall. There was never robust evidence of any such threat, but it was nonetheless effective at casting immigrants to the United States in a more nefarious light.\nThe best evidence for what motivated those who stormed the Capitol is their own presentation of their motivation. Multiple news reports have captured it directly: They were spurred by the false idea — spread by Trump, his allies and conservative media — that the election had been stolen.}}
{{article\nMayor Eric Garcetti said Thursday if President Donald Trump cannot keep peace in the U.S., it may be necessary for him to leave office early, joining several leaders from Los Angeles to accuse Trump of inciting his supporters to storm the U.S. Capitol.\n"What we saw yesterday were thugs, thugs who brought an abomination to our nation's capital and who attacked our Capitol. ... It was a group of people who were inspired by -- who were incited by the president of the United States of America, a sentence I never thought I would say in my lifetime," Garcetti said in a vaccine-related news conference with several council members in South Los Angeles.\nRELATED: 'This is just a sad day in American history': SoCal lawmakers react to protest at US Capitol\nThe attack on the U.S. Capitol occurred as Congress was meeting to certify the results of the Nov. 3, 2000, election, in which Democrat Joe Biden defeated the Republican Trump, despite the incumbent's repeated unsubstantiated claims of widespread voter fraud that led to his defeat in key swing states and cost him the election.\nAt Trump's urging, thousands of his supporters descended on Washington, D.C., Wednesday for a morning rally. The president addressed the massive crowd, repeating his claims of the election being stolen through fraud. Trump urged the crowd to march to the Capitol.\n"It is time to quote you, Mr. President, not to stand by but to stand down," Garcetti said, referencing Trump's calls to the far-right Proud Boys group to "stand back and stand by" in September.\nAdvertisement\nRELATED:\n• Far-right extremist group 'Proud Boys' celebrates after Trump callout during debate\n• Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio released, ordered to stay away from DC\n"And if necessary, to leave this office early if you cannot keep the peace of this country," Garcetti added. "If you cannot keep the oath which you are sworn to uphold, we raise our hands as elected officials to protect our country against enemies foreign and domestic, we saw domestic enemies yesterday, and it is your duty to defend this country."\nGet your top stories delivered daily! Sign up for FOX 11’s Fast 5 newsletter. And, get breaking news alerts in the FOX 11 News app. Download for iOS or Android.\nGarcetti was joined by Councilman Curren D. Price, who pointed out the disparity between police's response to the pro-Trump insurrectionists and Black Lives Matter protesters.\n"Had that been a Black and brown crowd, as it was earlier in the summer, you know the troops would be out in coordination from a variety of jurisdictions," Price said, compared to "very little to stop the surging throng of hoodlums."\nSUGGESTED: Doc Rivers denounces D.C. riot: 'Could you imagine if those were all Black people'}}
{{Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is explicitly pointing his finger at President Donald Trump for helping to spur the violent attack on the Capitol January 6 by pro-Trump protesters.\nThe Kentucky Republican said Tuesday on the Senate floor, “The mob was fed lies."\n"They were provoked by the president and other powerful people, and they tried to use fear and violence to stop a specific proceeding of the first branch of the federal government, which they did not like," McConnell continued.\n.@senatemajldr on the U.S. Capitol Attack: "The mob was fed lies. They were provoked by the president and other powerful people." pic.twitter.com/QIeviyHkl3 — CSPAN (@cspan) January 19, 2021\nMcConnell spoke six days after the Democratic-led House impeached Trump on charges of inciting the Jan. 6 attack. A Senate trial on whether to convict Trump and perhaps bar him from ever again holding federal office is expected to begin in coming days.\nAfter years of supporting Trump with little criticism of him, McConnell has said he’s not decided whether he would vote to convict him in a Senate trial. His decision may prove critical because in a Senate that will be divided 50-50 between the two parties, it would take 17 Republicans to join all Democrats for the two-thirds margin needed for conviction.}}
{{Kellie Chauvin, the wife of the police officer charged with murder over the death of George Floyd has filed for divorce, Independent UK.\nIn a statement, Kellie Chauvin’s lawyer said she expressed her condolences to the family of Mr Floyd, a black man who was killed while pleading for air as the officer pressed a knee into his neck for several minutes during an arrest.\nDerek Chauvin was later fired before being charged on Friday with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.\n“This evening, I spoke with Kellie Chauvin and her family,” the lawyer told ABC. “She is devastated by Mr Floyd’s death and her utmost sympathy lies with his family, with his loved ones and with everyone who is grieving this tragedy.\n“She has filed for dissolution of her marriage to Derek Chauvin. While Ms Chauvin has no children from her current marriage, she respectfully requests that her children, her elder parents, and her extended family be given safety and privacy during this difficult time.”\nMr Floyd’s death in Minneapolis has sparked an explosion of anger across cities in the US, with thousands taking to the streets to protest his killing and police brutality in general against black men.\nEarly on Saturday, Georgia’s governor declared a state of emergency to activate the state National Guard in Atlanta, while another 500 Guard soldiers were mobilized in Minneapolis and surrounding cities.\nThe Guard was also on standby in the District of Columbia, where a crowd grew outside the White House and chanted curses at Donald Trump. Some protesters tried to push through barriers set up by the Secret Service along Pennsylvania Avenue, and threw bottles and other objects at officers wearing riot gear, who responded with pepper spray.\nA person was killed in downtown Detroit just before midnight after someone in an SUV fired shots into a crowd of protesters near the city’s Greektown entertainment district, police said.\nIn Portland, Oregon, protesters broke into police headquarters on Friday night and authorities said they lit a fire inside.\nIn Virginia’s capital, a police cruiser was set on fire outside Richmond police headquarters, and a city transit spokeswoman said a bus set ablaze was “a total loss”, news outlets reported.\nAdditional reporting by AP}}
{{Thousands Show Support for George Floyd in Fargo Rally\nFARGO, ND – A crowd in the thousands showed their support for George Floyd with a rally and march in Fargo Saturday morning in what was likely the largest such event in Fargo in many years.\nThe group gathered at Island Park for a rally that featured several speakers from the community.\nThe gathering started around 10 am with the march through downtown starting near 11.\nCity officials believed that over 2,000 people were in attendance.\nSome of those taking part later showed up outside the police headquarters building at 25th St. and 1st Ave. N.\nVideo from the march can be viewed on the KFGO facebook page.}}
{{It is now just over one week on from the explosion in at the port in Beirut.\nThere had been a two-day partial relaxation of lockdown measures in the city, so I had been able to visit Trócaire’s office last Tuesday, having worked from home over recent months.\nAfter finishing work in the office, I had arranged to meet a friend who I hadn’t seen in nearly five months due to the limitations of the lockdown.\nWe had just sat down outside a bar in our neighbourhood, around a mile from the port, and we were excitedly catching up when the first explosion went off.\nWe could see the smoke billowing into the air and there was a really loud noise.\nEveryone was looking up trying to figure out what was happening. A large red plume of smoke went up in the sky, everything rocked, and suddenly a thick cloud of debris ripped through the street and we were thrown to the ground.\nI don’t know if we were concussed or just in shock, but we quickly got under a table to get cover from the debris.\nWe didn’t know what had happened, but I quickly realised we needed to get out of there.\nAs I stood up and looked around, the level of destruction was shocking. Every window was blown out, there were part of walls on the ground, cars had been flattened and there were people covered in blood around us, stunned, not knowing what had happen.\nWe made our way through the glass-covered streets to find another injured friend and look for somewhere safe. Friends of mine took us in for the night. They cleaned our wounds, fed us and we sat together in shock, trying to figure out what had happened.\nLike hundreds of thousands of people in the city, my apartment was destroyed in the explosion with the window, doors and even the door-frames blown off.\nLooking back, I don’t know how I came out of it basically unscathed. I just had a few glass wounds and a bump on my head. It feels like a miracle and I feel lucky to be alive.\nI was also very grateful when I heard that all the Trócaire team in Lebanon were safe; however, we have all been impacted in different ways.\nTrócaire’s office is around 2.2km, from the site of the explosion.\nDamage done to the Trócaire office in Beirut\nThankfully no-one was present in the office when the blast happened and all of Trócaire’s local partner staff are also safe.\nAlready, hundreds of staff and volunteers from our partner organisations – Caritas Lebanon, SAWA for Development and Aid, and Basmeh and Zeitooneh – have been helping in Beirut, providing emergency supplies to people, helping to clear rubble both in the homes and on the streets and distributing food and water to people affected by the explosion.\nThe cause of the explosion is being investigated and it has been linked to 2,700 tonnes of ammonium nitrate that was being negligently stored in a port warehouse for six years.\nThe blast was heard as far as Cyprus, more than 120 miles away.\nOver 5,000 people were injured by the blast and over 300,000 people have been left homeless.\nAs emergency services begin to clear rubble and debris, the death toll continues to rise. At the time of writing over 159 people are reported dead but many more are missing.\nIt had been devastating walking around the city over the past days. East Beirut has been decimated, there is not a building unharmed.\nThe streets have been full of people helping with the clean-up.\nGroups of young people and volunteers are walking through the streets with shovels and sweeping brushes, going door to door offering to help, handing out water and taping up windows with plastic sheeting.\nRead More Aid to Lebanon will come with reforms, donors say\nThe people in Lebanon are resilient, but they were already suffering so much.\nThe country is in the middle of a severe economic and political crisis, on top of the Covid-19 pandemic. One million people are already living below the poverty line with 45% of the Lebanese population sliding into poverty.\nDamage done to the Trócaire office in Beirut\nThe World Food Programme has said that the combined impact of Lebanon’s economic crisis and Covid-19 lockdown measures on livelihoods and food security revealed that food has become a major source of concern – 50% of Lebanese they spoke to said they felt worried they would not have enough food to eat.\nThe Covid-19 pandemic continues to be a huge concern with cases increasing from 2,168 to more than 6,500 cases in the past month.\nThe explosion has added to these challenges. In addition to the destruction in the city, the explosion destroyed the main port, which is essential for the importation of food and other supplies.\nIt also destroyed storehouses containing wheat, which has left many concerned about the general availability of food in the country.\n2,300 hot meals and water were distributed to people in Beirut by Trócaire's local partner, Caritas Lebanon. Photo Caritas/Trócaire\nA two-week of state of emergency has been announced and there is a palpable sense of despair.\nPeople in Beirut are angry and have taken to the streets to demand answers.\nThe entire government has now resigned.\nWhile it is unclear what will happen next, and how long it will take to get clear answers on how this explosion happened, we need to get to work right away in responding to the great humanitarian need.\nWith the help of the Irish public, Trócaire can assist the efforts further by providing food and non-food items, medical care, and support with shelter rehabilitation.\n- Alison Hero is Trócaire's Head of Programmes in Beirut, Lebanon}}
{{California has certified its presidential election and appointed 55 electors pledged to vote for Joe Biden, officially handing him the Electoral College majority needed to win the White House.\nSecretary of State Alex Padilla’s formal approval of Mr Biden’s win in the state brought his tally of pledged electors so far to 279, over the 270 threshold for victory.\nThese steps in the election are often ignored formalities, but the hidden mechanics of electing a US president have drawn new scrutiny this year as President Donald Trump continues to deny his opponent’s victory.\nMr Trump continues to pursue increasingly specious legal strategies aimed at overturning the results before they are finalised.\nAlthough it has been apparent for weeks Mr Biden won the presidential election, his accrual of more than 270 electors is the first step toward the White House, said Edward Foley, a law professor at Ohio State University.\n“It is a legal milestone and the first milestone that has that status,” he said.\n“Everything prior to that was premised on what we call projections.”\nThe electors named on Friday will meet on December 14, along with counterparts in each state, to formally vote for the next president.\nOldest US presidents at inauguration (PA Graphics)\nMost states have laws binding their electors to the winner of the popular vote in their state, measures that were upheld by a Supreme Court decision this year.\nThere have been no suggestions that any of Mr Biden’s pledged electors would contemplate not voting for him.\nResults of the Electoral College vote are due to be received, and typically approved, by Congress on January 6 and, although politicians can object to accepting the electors’ votes, it would be almost impossible for Mr Biden to be blocked at that point.\n“As a practical matter, we know that Joe Biden is going to be inaugurated on January 20,” Mr Foley said.\nPresident Donald Trump has refused to acknowledge the results (AP)\nThat was clear in the days after the election, when the count of mail ballots gradually made clear Mr Biden had won victories in enough states to win the Electoral College.\nIt became even more apparent in late November, when every swing state won by Mr Biden certified him as the winner of its elections and appointed his electors to the Electoral College.\nMr Trump has fruitlessly tried to stop those states from certifying Mr Biden as the winner and appointing electors for the former vice president.\nHe made no effort in deeply Democratic California, the most populous state in the nation and the trove of its largest number of electoral votes.\nThree more states won by Mr Biden – Colorado, Hawaii and New Jersey – have not yet certified their results and when they do, he will have 306 Electoral College votes to Mr Trump’s 232.\nMr Trump and his allies have brought at least 50 legal cases trying to overturn the results in the swing states his opponent won – mainly Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.\nThe president and his allies have also raised the far-fetched notion that Republican state legislatures in those states could appoint a rival set of electors pledged to Mr Trump.\nBut state Republican leaders have rejected that approach, and it would likely be futile in any case.\nAccording to federal law, both chambers of Congress would need to vote to accept a competing slate of electors. If they do not, the electors appointed by the states’ governors – all pledged to Mr Biden in these cases – must be used.\nThe last remaining move to block the election would be the unrealistic and impractical effort to vote down the electors in Congress.\nThis tactic has been tried – a handful of congressional Democrats in 2000, 2004 and 2016 objected to officially making both George W Bush and Mr Trump president – but the numbers were not enough to block the two men from taking office.}}
{{WASHINGTON, Jan 8: President Donald Trump has condemned the violent supporters who stormed the US Capitol, saying they do not represent America, as he vowed to ensure a peaceful and smooth transition of power to President-elect Joe Biden.\nIn a new video message, Trump said America is, and must always be a nation of law and order.\n“Like all Americans, I am outraged by the violence, lawlessness and mayhem. I immediately deployed the national guard and federal law enforcement to secure the building and expel the intruders,” Trump said in the recorded video posted on YouTube on Thursday and released by the White House.\nThe demonstrators who infiltrated the Capitol have defiled the seat of American democracy, he added.\n“To those who engaged in the acts of violence and destruction, you do not represent our country. And to those who broke the law, you will pay. We have just been through an intense election and emotions are high, but now tempers must be cooled, and calm restored,” he said.\nIn an unprecedented assault on democracy in the US, thousands of supporters of outgoing President Trump stormed the Capitol building on Wednesday and clashed with police, resulting in four deaths and interrupting a constitutional process by Congress to affirm the victory of Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris in the November 3 election.\nTrump also accepted the result of the election and pledged a “smooth transition” of power to Biden.\n“Now, Congress has certified the results a new administration will be inaugurated on January 20th. My focus now turns to ensuring a smooth, orderly and seamless transition of power,” Trump said.\n“We must get on with the business of America. My campaign vigorously pursued every legal avenue to contest the election results. My only goal was to ensure the integrity of the vote and so doing, I was fighting to defend American democracy,” said the outgoing president.\nTrump said that he continues to strongly believe that the US must reform election laws to verify the identity and eligibility of all voters and to ensure faith and confidence in all future elections.\nObserving that the moment calls for healing and reconciliation, Trump said that 2020 has been a challenging time for Americans.\n“A menacing pandemic has upended the lives of our citizens, isolated millions in their homes, damaged our economy and claimed countless lives,” he said.\n“Defeating this pandemic and rebuilding the greatest economy on earth will require all of us working together. It will require a renewed emphasis on the civic values of patriotism, faith, charity, community, and family,” he said.\nEarlier White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany told reporters that the violence at the Capitol Hill was appalling, reprehensible, and antithetical to the American way.\n“We condemn it — the president and this administration — in the strongest possible terms. It is unacceptable, and those that broke the law should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law,” she said.\n“Those who violently besieged our Capitol are the opposite of everything this administration stands for. The core value of our administration is the idea that all citizens have the right to live in safety, peace, and freedom,” she said.\nTrump, who hours before the video had continued to claim falsely that the election had been stolen from him, said that “serving as your president has been the honour of my lifetime”. (PTI)}}
{{PROSECUTORS have released a new photograph they say shows the moment a Capitol Hill rioter stole Nancy Pelosi's laptop from her office in a plot to sell it to Russia.\nThe new snap is alleged to be from 22-year-old rioter Riley Williams' camera phone showing the moment the House Speaker's laptop was stolen during the January 6 riots.\n9 Williams was arrested in Pennsylvania after fleeing her home Credit: Alamy Live News\n9 Williams seen directing people up a staircase during the riots Credit: ITV\n9 Footage taken on a camera phone allegedly shows the moment Pelosi's laptop was stolen Credit: Department of justice\nWilliams' former boyfriend told investigators that the Pennsylvania care worker stole the HP machine and 'attempted to sell it to Russians'.\nThe ex, referred to in court documents as W1, told investigators that friends of Williams had played him a video that showed her stealing the device.\nRiley June Williams, 22, of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, was seen on video taking part in the Capitol Hill siege and directing other rioters, the Department of Justice alleges.\nOn Tuesday prosecutors filed an amended complaint, adding an additional charge of aiding and abetting theft of government property.\nWilliams could be sentenced to ten years in prison for that charge.\nVIDEO EVIDENCE\nThe amended documents included a screenshot of a four-second video found on a cell phone, which investigators had obtained on Monday.\nIn the clip, prosecutors say, the person holding the cell phone camera is standing, angling the camera down toward a wooden desk with an HP laptop.\nProsecutors believe Williams is the person holding the phone.\nThe FBI special agent investigating Williams' case said that the voiceover for the clip matched that of Williams, as seen in footage from Britain's ITV News.\nThe agent stated: "A female voice that I believe to be Williams' based on my review of the ITV YouTube video described above can be heard saying, 'Dude, put on gloves.'\n"Next, what appears to be a man's arm then reaches toward the laptop, with a black glove covering his hand, and begins to lift the laptop off the table.\n"There is text across the video clip that reads: 'they got the laptop.''\nThe prosecution document continues: "Given how loud Williams' voice is, it seems likely that she was the one holding the cell phone camera."\nMessages which prosecutors say were from Williams read: "I stole s*** from Nancy Polesi (sic)."\nAnother read: "I domt care I took Nancy Polesis hard drives I dont care kill me."\nPelosi's deputy chief of staff, Drew Hammill, tweeted two days after the attack that a laptop stolen was from a conference room that was used for presentations.\n9 Riley June Williams, 22, is being investigated over her role in the Capitol riots Credit: FBI\n9 It's alleged she wanted to sell Nancy Pelosi's laptop Credit: AFP or licensors\nIn a court affidavit detailing the allegations, FBI agent John Lund said a former romantic partner of Williams told the agency that, during the riots, Williams had taken either a laptop or a hard drive from Pelosi's office.\nThe former partner - named only as W1 - also said they had been played a video by other associates of Williams that showed her taking the item.\n“[Witness 1] stated that Williams intended to send the computer device to a friend in Russia, who then planned to sell the device to SVR, Russia’s foreign intelligence service,” court documents allege.\nThe plan reportedly did not go ahead for reasons that are not clear.\nWilliams was charged with entering a restricted building and disorderly conduct after footage from inside the Capitol showed her appearing to direct other rioters.\n9 Williams pictured holding a rifle in the months before the incident Credit: ITV\n9 Williams was charged with entering a restricted building and disorderly conduct Credit: ITV\nPolice said Williams fled the Harrisburg apartment she shares with her mother but was arrested in central Pennsylvania, CBS3 reports.\n"According to local law enforcement officers in Harrisburg, Williams’ mother stated that Williams packed a bag and left her home and told her mother she would be gone for a couple of weeks," the affidavit says.\n"Williams did not provide her mother any information about her intended destination."\nPictures from after the riots showed a number of offices inside the Capitol - including Pelosi's - ransacked.\n9 A man pictured with his feet on the desk of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi Credit: AFP or licensors\n9 Crowds seen outside the Capitol during last week's riot Credit: Getty Images - Getty\nLund writes: "The transfer of the computer device to Russia fell through for unknown reasons and Williams still has the computer device or destroyed it.\n"This matter remains under investigation."\nPolice said she was arrested in central Pennsylvania on Monday night.\nIn footage captured by ITV, Williams is seen herding rioters up a staircase inside the Capitol and repeatedly shouting: "Upstairs, upstairs, upstairs."\nThe affidavit stated that the staircase shown leads towards Pelosi's office.\nPictures also show Williams at some point before the riots holding a large rifle and wearing a skull-themed face mask.\nSpeaking to investigators, Williams's mother reportedly identified her in the clip and said she had recently developed an interest in MAGA politics and begun using "far-right message boards".\nMost read in News Live Blog JOE WAY Inauguration LIVE – Biden vows to reverse SEVENTEEN major Trump policies on day 1 FAMILY AFFAIR Eighteen family members 'get Covid & some in hospital after Christmas party' Latest 'END THIS UNCIVIL WAR' Biden hails day of ‘history & hope’ and urges unity as he's sworn in FAREWELL TOUR Trump welcomed at Mar-a-Lago after vowing ‘we’ll be back’ in goodbye speech DON’S DEFINING MOMENTS Trump's craziest days in office highlighted in incredible pics BEG YOUR PARDON Julian Assange misses out on Trump pardon on president's last day\nOn January 11, Williams's mother also filed a suspicious persons report against W1, although the details of that report are not known, the affidavit says.\nAt least 125 people have so far been arrested and charged over their role in the riot at the Capitol building on January 6, including one man pictured with his feet up on Pelosi's desk.\nThose arrested face charges from curfew violation and entering a restricted building up to theft and unauthorised possession of a firearm.}}
{{Lebanon recorded 255 coronavirus cases Thursday – its highest single-day infection tally – after a monstrous blast upended a planned lockdown and sent thousands streaming into overflowing hospitals, already struggling to cope.\nThe health ministry figures were reported by the state-run National News Agency, which also announced two new deaths.\nVisit our dedicated coronavirus site here for all the latest updates.\nThey bring the total number of COVID-19 infections in Lebanon to 4,604, including 70 deaths since the outbreak first began in February.\nThe pandemic has compounded the woes of a crisis-hit country reeling from a massive explosion that killed more than 130 people, wounded at least 5,000 and left an estimated 300,000 homeless.\nTuesday's blast meant many people forgot about their face masks as they crammed into vehicles, sometimes riding with strangers, en route to hospitals which were also damaged by the explosion.\nLebanon's hospitals were – for the first time in months – overwhelmed with cases other than COVID-19, with some having to turn away the wounded because they were already full.\nSince the explosion, people have crowded into the hardest hit districts to inspect their damaged homes and businesses, or as volunteers in cleanup efforts.\nThe blast forced authorities to suspend a lockdown that was supposed to last until August 10.\nFor all the latest headlines follow our Google News channel online or via the app.\nRead more:\nCost of damages to exceed $5 billion, Beirut governor reveals as Lebanon grieves\nUS military sending aid to help Lebanese people recover after Beirut explosions\nBeirut explosion death toll rises to at least 137 and 5,000 injured: Ministry\nTo view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading your web browser\nLast Update: Thursday, 06 August 2020 KSA 20:45 - GMT 17:45}}
{{Unbeknownst to many, George Floyd was honored not just with murals, tribute songs, and marches in his honor, but with a hologram that toured the country.\nChange.org and the George Floyd Foundation officially launched “A Monumental Change: The George Floyd Hologram Memorial Project” in Richmond, Virginia, the capital of the Confederacy. Specifically, the hologram tour kicked off July 28 at the site of the former Jefferson Davis Confederate monument which was recently taken down by protestors.\nCLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD OUR APP AND TAKE US WITH YOU ANYWHERE!\nThe tour ended quietly on August 1 at 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Alabama, the church that was bombed by the Ku Klux Klan in 1963.\nGeorge Floyd Hologram Memorial Launches At Sites Of Confederate Statues was originally published on rickeysmileymorningshow.com}}
{{Hospitals in Lebanon’s capital have been forced to treat patients in parking lots after multiple explosions damaged hospitals and left a big part of Beirut without electricity.\nAt the Saint George Hospital University Medical Center in Beirut’s Geitawi neighborhood, the urgent car building was damaged and lost power.\nFor all the latest headlines follow our Google News channel online or via the app.\nA chaotic scene outside the hospital unfolded with hospital staff working to clear piles of broken glass from the road. At the same time, Civil Defense teams carried patients out in stretchers, and medical staff gave first aid to less severe cases in the adjacent parking lot.\nThousands of people were wounded and more than 50 killed during the blasts in Downtown Beirut Tuesday, Lebanon’s health minister said.\nBuildings several kilometers away suffered material damage, with Cyprus even feeling the blast, and the explosions were heard over 20 kilometers away from Beirut.\nRead more: White House 'closely' following Lebanon explosions: Spokesperson\n“We’re bringing the patients to the emergency building, and from there, we’re trying to send them to different hospitals because the urgent care is also full ... What can we do?” a doctor at the scene told Al Arabiya English.\nThe Lebanese Red Cross said it had sent ten teams to help evacuate the patients.\nSleiman Haroun, head of the Syndicate of Hospitals in Lebanon called the mass injuries coming on top of the growing surge in coronavirus cases “catastrophic.”\nOther hospitals around the city also reported heavy patient loads, with many calling for blood donations.\nFirass Abiad, director of Rafik Hariri University Hospital, which has been at the forefront in treating the country’s coronavirus cases, wrote on Twitter that the hospital had been receiving patients from Karantina Government Hospital, near the site of the explosion, most of whom had glass injuries.\nLebanon’s hospitals have already been dealing with a surge in coronavirus cases in recent weeks.\nA severe economic and financial crisis has led to a shortage of US dollars in the market, which has forced hospitals to limit types of treatments and even get rid of employees.\nAs of Monday, there were just over 5,000 positive coronavirus cases in Lebanon. The government also reimposed a nationwide lockdown and curfew as a result of the spike in cases.\nLast Update: Tuesday, 04 August 2020 KSA 22:49 - GMT 19:49}}
{{Beirut, Aug 6 (AP) Lebanon's state-run news agency says 16 employees at Beirut's port have been detained over this weeks explosion that killed more than 100 people and wounded thousands.\nThe National News Agency quoted Government Commissioner to the Military Court Judge Fadi Akiki as saying on Thursday that 18 people have been questioned so far. All of them are port and customs officials, as well as individuals in charge of maintenance at the hangar where 2,750 tons of explosive materials have been stored for years.\nAlso Read | Sri Lanka General Elections Results 2020: Mahinda Rajapaksa Thanks PM Narendra Modi For Congratulatory Phone Call Over SLPP's Likely Win.\nAkiki said that the investigation began shortly after the blast occurred on Tuesday evening and will continue to cover all suspects in the explosion. (AP)\n(This is an unedited and auto-generated story from Syndicated News feed, LatestLY Staff may not have modified or edited the content body)}}
{{Kellie Chauvin said in a statement she has filed for divorce from her husband Derek Chauvin.\nMINNEAPOLIS — The wife of the former Minneapolis police officer arrested and charged in connection to the death of George Floyd spoke out Friday evening through her attorney's office.\nKelly Chauvin, the wife of Derek Chauvin, said in a statement she is “devastated by Mr. Floyd’s death.” She offered her sympathy to his family and “everyone who is grieving this tragedy,” the statement read.\nThe statement, posted on the Sekula Law Offices Facebook page, went on to say she has filed for divorce from the former police officer and is asking for privacy.\n“While Ms. Chauvin has no children from her current marriage, she respectfully requests that her children, her elder parents, and her extended family be given safety and privacy during this difficult time,” the statement said.\nDerek Chauvin has been charged with third degree murder and second degree manslaughter in the death of George Floyd.\nChauvin was captured on camera kneeling on Floyd’s neck while he was pleading, “I can’t breathe,” according to the criminal complaint.\nFloyd was pronounced dead at the hospital.}}
{{Sign up for our COVID-19 newsletter to stay up-to-date on the latest coronavirus news throughout New York City\nBy Jarrett Renshaw and Sarah N. Lynch, Reuters\nPresident-elect Joe Biden intends to nominate federal appeals court Judge Merrick Garland, who was once President Barack Obama’s nominee for the Supreme Court, to serve as the next U.S. attorney general, a Biden transition official said on Wednesday.\nGarland serves as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Obama, a Democrat, nominated him to the Supreme Court while Biden was vice president, but the Republican-controlled U.S. Senate refused to hold hearings on the nomination.\nGarland, who has served on the federal appeals bench since 1997, is no stranger to the Justice Department.\nPrior to becoming a judge, he worked as a federal prosecutor where he helped secure a conviction against Timothy McVeigh for the Oklahoma City bombing. He was also on the team that helped secure a conviction of former District of Columbia Mayor Marion Barry for cocaine possession.\nIn addition to working as a line prosecutor, Garland held other key posts at the Justice Department, including serving as Principal Deputy Associate Attorney General to Deputy Attorney General Jamie Gorelick starting in 1994.\nObama nominated Garland in March 2016 to replace long-serving conservative justice Antonin Scalia, who died on Feb. 13, 2016.\nBut Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell refused to consider the nomination on the grounds it should not occur in a presidential election year. The stance has since come under criticism after McConnell this year rushed to confirm President Donald Trump’s nominee Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court within weeks of the death of liberal Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.}}
{{article\nProtests erupted in major cities across the United States in response to the May 25 death of George Floyd, an unarmed black man. Derek Chauvin, a now former police officer, has been charged with third-degree murder after pressing his knee down on Floyd’s neck for an extended period of time. Floyd died a short time later.\nWhile the incident occurred in Minneapolis, outrage could be felt across the country. On May 29, protests unfurled in major cities including New York; Denver; Atlanta; Chicago; Detroit; Houston; Columbus, Ohio; and Washington D.C.\nThe protests have resulted in hundreds of arrests and property damaged and destroyed. Chants of “I can’t breathe” were common, echoing the words that Floyd had spoken in a video just before his death.\nRELATED: Minneapolis activists hope arrest of officer in George Floyd's death will help sooth anger\nThe protests continued into Saturday as well. In Columbus, Ohio, there were reports of arrests and tear gas being deployed. In Tallahassee, Fla., as dozens of protesters took to the streets, one reporter tweeted about how a non-police vehicle could be heard running over a person. In Tallahassee, Fla., dozens of protestors could be seen gathering.\nNew York Governor Andrew Cuomo, who has received national attention amid the COVID-19 pandemic, said on Saturday that “people do deserve answers, people do deserve accountability” while noting that he would be asking for a review of the Friday night protests.\n“If someone did something wrong, they should be held accountable,” the governor said.\nAdvertisement\nOn Saturday, President Donald Trump tweeted repeatedly about the protests.\nThe posts came just a day after the president had been accused of inciting violence in a tweet that contained the message, “when the looting starts, the shooting starts.”\nRELATED: Police across US speak out against death of George Floyd}}
{{NEW\nA vastly improved search engine helps you find the latest on companies, business leaders, and news more easily.}}
{{National Review\nOn Tuesday, authorities in Wisconsin announced they would not be prosecuting Rusten Sheskey, the officer who shot and paralyzed Jacob Blake in August of last year — an incident that set off protests and riots in Kenosha, a city near the Illinois border. To justify this decision, they released two reports, one from the Kenosha County District Attorney’s Office and another from Noble Wray, a retired police chief and Obama-administration police reformer who’d been asked to render an independent assessment.Some important details of the shooting remain unclear, largely because Kenosha police did not have body cameras at the time. The incident was captured only on bystanders’ cell phones, videos from which do not show the whole situation. But when it comes to the question of a criminal prosecution, the documents are highly compelling: There is no way to prove, beyond a reasonable doubt, that Sheskey fired without justification. If anything, the evidence tips in the opposite direction.Officer Sheskey and two other cops showed up in response to a call from Laquisha Booker, the mother of Blake’s kids. She said that Blake had taken the keys to her rental vehicle, and that he’d borrowed vehicles from her and crashed them in the past. She added that Blake was “not supposed to be here,” but that she’d let him visit for his son’s birthday. Police dispatchers told the officers that Blake had a felony arrest warrant for domestic-violence offenses and sexual assault, meaning they’d have to arrest him if they found him, under Kenosha Police Department policy.When they arrived, according to the officers and another witness, Booker said that Blake was trying to take her car and her kids — and Blake was seen putting a child in a gray SUV. Sheskey has said he wasn’t sure if the child was Blake’s or not. In truth, there were three kids in the SUV, all Blake’s.The cops tried to arrest Blake. He resisted. Two different officers shot him with Tasers, but he ripped out the probes. And to make matters worse, Blake produced a knife. Despite some claims in the media that Blake was “unarmed,” he admitted having the knife himself, there’s video of the officers telling him to drop it, and the weapon was found open in the SUV after the incident. According to the DA office’s report, Blake also resisted arrest with a knife in a 2010 incident.And then came a fateful series of decisions. As seen in the widely disseminated cell-phone video, Blake walked around the SUV and opened the door. Sheskey followed and grabbed Blake’s shirt, then fired seven times. He says he stopped shooting when Blake dropped the knife, consistent with his training to shoot until the threat stops.Were the shots justified? The key question is whether Sheskey reasonably believed lethal force was necessary to stop an imminent threat of “death or great bodily harm,” whether to him or to someone else.Sheskey, another officer, and some witnesses say that Blake twisted his body toward Sheskey before the shots rang out, which would have moved the knife toward the officer. Per the district attorney’s office, “Officer Sheskey stated that for the first time Jacob Blake showed intent to harm [as opposed to just resisting arrest] by driving the knife towards Officer Sheskey's torso.” Such an action would clearly justify deadly force.However, this gesture is not obvious in the video, at least not to me. (You can see the recording on YouTube, and move frame-by-frame using the “” buttons on your keyboard.) That said, I wouldn’t say the video disproves these claims, either — the more important question in court, where the burden is on the prosecution — because the SUV’s door and the cops’ bodies obscure some of Blake’s movements.And at any rate, as Noble Wray’s report adds, whether> Blake drove the knife forward or not, a reasonable officer could view himself as being in imminent danger. P.O. Sheskey was literally holding on to Blake's shirt, and Blake had a knife in his hand, actively resisting, attempting to get into the vehicle. This circumstance is only compounded with the kids being in the vehicle.Of course, it was Sheskey’s own decision to grab Blake’s shirt, and there are various ways we might second-guess the officers’ actions even if we don’t prosecute them. But when it comes to those crucial final moments, the truth is that Blake put them in an impossible situation. They could have kept a safe distance from the guy with a sexual-assault warrant armed with a knife, but that would have meant letting that guy get into a vehicle they knew contained at least one child — an option that could lead to a high-speed chase or a hostage situation, both possibilities that Sheskey says he feared at the time. On the other hand, once Sheskey got close to a knife-wielding suspect, the chance he’d need to use deadly force shot way up, because knives are incredibly deadly at that range and there isn’t much time to ascertain and react to a suspect’s movements.Or, as Wray put it:> Officer Sheskey had determined that it was dangerous for the public and the child in the car to let Blake go. P.O. Sheskey felt he could not retreat once he made the decision that harm could come to the kids or to the public. I found Officer Sheskey's analysis was reasonable based on the limited information he had at the time. Officer Sheskey did not know the relationship between Blake and the child. I am not sure if it makes much difference. The U.S. Department of Justice reports in 2010 that 200,000 kids are abducted mostly by a family friend or parent. Blake's severe resistance to being taken into custody would lead a reasonable officer to believe that he would engage in a high-speed pursuit.I have no idea what actually would have happened if Sheskey hadn’t fired. I’m glad I didn’t have to make that decision myself. And I’m glad prosecutors aren’t dragging this situation out by pursuing a case they could never win.}}
{{SEE NEW POSTS\nNew York AG to review videos of 'violent clashes' in Brooklyn Gov. Cuomo on death of George Floyd: 'We have injustice in the criminal justice system' May 30, 2020 03:05 New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo announced Saturday that Attorney General Letitia James will be conducting an "independent review" looking into the "disturbing violent clashes" that occurred amid protests in Brooklyn Friday night. Cuomo said he asked James to "review all actions and procedures that were taken" by police as well as the crowds' actions and prepare a report in the next 30 days because "the public deserves answers and accountability." At least 200 people were arrested Friday as thousands gathered across the city to protest the death of George Floyd. Police said the arrests include a woman who allegedly threw a Molotov cocktail at a police van. The initially peaceful protests turned violent late at night, particularly in Brooklyn, where social media videos surfaced showing police vehicles burning and officers physically clashing with protesters. "This nation’s history of discrimination and racism dates back hundreds of years. It is abhorrent, and I share the outrage at this fundamental injustice. But violence obscures the righteousness of the message and the mission," said Cuomo, adding that the protests and the disproportionate impact of the coronavirus pandemic on people of color are "not disconnected" since they're "both about inequality." "We have to address the inequality in healthcare. If you look across the nation, many more people of color died from the virus than white people. That is a fact," Cuomo said. "And then, the George Floyd situation gets at the inequality and discrimination in the criminal justice system. They are connected." Share this -\nCalifornia man arrested for driving SUV through protesting crowd The Bakersfield Police Department in California said they arrested a man Friday after he attempted to drive his SUV through a crowd of protesters, hitting a 15-year-old girl and causing minor injuries. Police charged Michael Tran, 31, for attempted murder after the California man accelerated his SUV and drove into the crowd. It appeared that Tran had driven his Toyota Rav4 by the protesters multiple times and talked to some, potentially antagonizing them, the Bakersfield Police Department said. Ten protesters were later arrested in Bakersfield when some demonstrators began to throw bottles, defaced a BPD fallen officer memorial and attempted to block the roadway. Share this -\nAfter a long night of protests in Houston’s, alumni of Yates High School, where Floyd graduared and played basketball and football, have gathered this morning for a justice vigil in honor of #GeorgeFloyd pic.twitter.com/sbYCEX74vt — Priscilla Thompson (@PriscillaWT) May 30, 2020 Share this -\n108 arrests during protests in Chicago More than 100 people were arrested and dozens of police officers injured during a protest Friday night in Chicago. The charges for the 108 people taken into custody range from aggravated battery to disorderly conduct, Mayor Lori Lightfoot and Police Superintendent David Brown said Saturday at a news conference. According to officials, shots were fired at officers as demonstrators gathered in the city to protest the death of George Floyd, a Minneapolis man killed by an officer who kneeled on his neck for more than eight minutes. A gun was recovered during the arrests, officials said. Some of the officers sustained minor injuries and one suffered a broken wrist while working on crowd control. A dozen squad cars were damaged with spray paint and the tires being slashed. Share this -\nBlack men in Minneapolis outraged over Floyd killing, distrustful of judicial system Since Samar Moseley moved back to Minneapolis from upstate New York in 2015, the police-involved killings of black men have placed the city on the cusp of anarchy. But today feels different, Moseley said. “This has the potential to be worse than Ferguson” he said, referring to the town in Missouri that erupted in riots in 2014 after an unarmed black teenager, Michael Brown, was fatally shot by a white police officer. “It’s happened too many times here.” Protesters—black and white—have stormed the streets in Minneapolis and other cities across the country in the nights since the death of George Floyd in police custody on Monday. Floyd, who was black, died after a white police officer pinned him to the ground with his knee for more than eight minutes during an arrest. That officer, Derek Chauvin, was arrested on Friday and charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter. For many, that was a victory. But many others, it was far less than that. Three other officers involved in the encounter, two who on video appear to be holding Floyd down and another who stood by, have not been charged, and that does not sit well with a large faction of a distraught and angry public. Read the full story here. Share this -\nPortland mayor places curfew following violence; at least 13 arrested Portland Mayor Ted Wheeler placed a citywide curfew starting at 8 p.m. Saturday after peaceful events gave way to violence on Friday night, resulting in numerous destroyed businesses and at least 13 arrests. Portland Police said they were aware of two planned events in memory of George Floyd. Some attendees left the area and several hundred marched toward downtown Portland, police said, adding that "some protesters in the march vandalized business with graffiti for about twenty blocks. A bank sustained broken windows." A shooting was then reported at around 9:50 p.m. Friday in relation to the protests. Police said a vehicle was within a large group of protesters when "one of the protesters shot at the occupants of the vehicle, injuring the passenger." Protesters spraypainted buildings, broke windows and made an unlawful entry into a building, starting a fire inside of it, police said. Firefighters also put off multiple other fires in the city, including "a large dumpster, trash cans, vehicles and a large pile of pallets," according to police. Police in riot gear were deployed after 11 p.m. and the protesters were dispersed from certain areas in downtown Portland. Two officers sustained injuries, police said. Share this -\nAt least 200 NYC protesters arrested At least 200 people were arrested Friday in New York City as thousands gathered to protest the death of George Floyd. Among those arrested were two women after one of them threw a Molotov cocktail at a police van. The New York City Police Department said the woman who threw it faces attempted murder charges. Police said they recovered bricks, brass knuckles and firearms from other protesters who were taken into custody. "It's tough to practice de-escalation when you have a brick being thrown at your head," NYPD Commissioner Dermot Shea said, adding that a number of officers were sent to the emergency room after suffering injuries including having their teeth knocked out. Share this -\nMorning in Minneapolis. Members of the community coming out to clean up the sidewalks after this US bank was burned. pic.twitter.com/6Ois6RFk17 — NBC News (@NBCNews) May 30, 2020 Share this -}}
{{In painter Don Perlis’ re-creation of the killing of George Floyd, an officer kneels on Floyd’s neck and two other officers further pin him down, as another officer in the background looks away from the scene. Floyd’s eyes, frozen in anguish, gaze out toward the viewer.\nThe oil painting, alongside a quote from the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. — “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere” — is amplified on a 16-by-48-foot billboard on La Cienega Boulevard and Holloway Drive, near the Sunset Strip in West Hollywood.\nThe billboard, which went up Monday, is from a group called the George Floyd Justice Billboard Committee. Its goal is to keep Floyd’s death front and center amid a seemingly never-ending news cycle, which most recently included a shockingly different police response to Trump supporters who violently broke into the nation’s Capitol. In late October, the group ran a similar billboard in New York’s Times Square, with a quote from the Dalai Lama: “Be kind whenever possible. It is always possible.” The West Hollywood billboard will remain up for four weeks, and a replica is up in Atlanta.\n“People need to remember how [Floyd] died and the same emotion people had then,” said committee chairwoman Corinne Basabe, who is an artist and TV producer. “People should be very concerned that justice is done.”\nAdvertisement\nThe group has struggled to put up a billboard in Minneapolis, the city where Floyd was killed, after two outdoor advertising firms, Clear Channel Outdoor and Outfront Media, refused to display the painting, saying it is too violent.\nPerlis, who is based in New York, created “Floyd” soon after Floyd’s death last May. The 79-year-old artist has a history of painting social injustices, including the 1989 arrest and wrongful conviction of five Black and Latino teenagers in New York for the rape and beating of Trisha Meili, a white jogger in Central Park, and Michael Griffith, the Black man who died after being chased by a mob of white teenagers onto a busy highway in 1986.\nPerlis took artistic liberties with the painting to emphasize the exact moment of Floyd’s death. “I changed the configuration of the figures, the location of the car,” he said. “I minimized the police in terms of guns and badges and things, because I wanted the painting to be on a human level.”\n“Floyd” is an oil painting depicting the brutal death of George Floyd by New York based painter, Don Perlis. (Don Perlis)\nAdvertisement\nThe message of the painting is simple: “men doing something bad to another man,” Perlis said.\nBasabe first encountered Perlis’ “Floyd” painting in an exhibit in upstate New York. The committee needed a strong visual for the project, and the majority of artworks Basabe had seen memorialized Floyd with portraiture.\n“Don’s image is important because it’s an image of what the policemen did to him, that brought people to the street, that evokes deep emotion, that makes people all over the world stand up and join with Americans in protesting,” she said.\nAdvertisement\nIn major cities, renting a billboard can cost more than $10,000 a month. The committee, made up of art professionals, reached out to potential donors and crowdfunded to cover costs.\nAs a white artist, Perlis worried there might be resistance to his depiction of Black death, “but that seems to not be an issue,” he said. Responses have been overwhelmingly positive, Basabe said. When one woman wrote the committee suggesting changing the Dalai Lama quote to one from King, the group agreed and made adjustments.\nInstead, the struggles have come from interactions with the billboard companies.\nTo place a billboard in downtown Minneapolis in early January, Perlis reached out to national advertising firms Clear Channel Outdoor and Outfront Media, submitting the art along with coverage of the Times Square billboard. “They were all both very positive and excited,” Perlis said. “The committee chose the Clear Channel one because it was a more central location.”\nAdvertisement\nThings seemed to be going well — Perlis signed a contract and paid for the billboard.\nThen in early December a representative from Clear Channel asked if Perlis could swap out the image on the billboard and offered to refund the cost, $7,470. The account executive explained the order was canceled because the billboard image depicted violence. Clear Channel did not respond to The Times’ requests for comment.\nAfter the cancellation, Perlis reached out again to Outfront Media to secure billboards in Minneapolis and L.A. Initially, Outfront processed the contract, but the order was abruptly canceled and the contract voided, Perlis said. Perlis said a representative from the company also implied in a phone call that the image was too violent. Outfront did not respond to The Times’ requests for comment.\n“It’s not a violent image,” Perlis said. “There’s no knives, guns, blood.” He believes the decision was political. “A lot of people were against George Floyd, even after he got killed,” he added. “We thought it might be that, but we don’t know for sure.”\nAdvertisement\nBasabe noted the resistance might be related to the upcoming March trial involving the four former officers charged with Floyd’s death.\nWhen Outfront Media voided the contract for the Minneapolis order, it did the same for an L.A. billboard near the Sunset Strip.\nJason Swing, who runs the L.A.-based outdoor advertising firm Swing Media, helped to broker the contract with Outfront Media. When the deal fell through, Swing offered to rent one of his own billboards near the Sunset Strip, which had an unusual vacancy. Billboards in the area are usually booked long-term with major fashion brands and media companies including Netflix and HBO because of the prime location, Swing said.\n“I don’t see anything wrong with it, I mean, I don’t think it’s even political,” Swing said. “It’s just a message from Martin Luther King reminding people of what happened.”\nAdvertisement\nIn the billboard world, art-related submissions are typically accepted, Swing explained.\n“I just think billboard companies, they didn’t want to take the heat and deal with it,” he added. “And I’m shocked because billboard companies take all the PETA ads, and PETA ads are brutal.”\nThe George Floyd Justice Billboard Committee hasn’t given up on Minneapolis, and it’s in talks with other companies to secure another location. The goal, Basabe said, is to run billboards in more cities across the U.S. and internationally.\nPerlis wants “to push this message of justice, humanity,” adding that he was happy to share the licensing permission for others to use the image on billboards. “We don’t want George Floyd’s death to go in vain, we don’t want it to be forgotten.”\nAdvertisement\nBasabe hasn’t heard from the Floyd family about the campaign.\n“I hope that they approve of what we’re doing,” she said, “because we definitely don’t want it to be forgotten, and we definitely want it to be taken the right way, and respectfully.”}}
{{National Politics\nCongressional Republicans began a futile attempt Wednesday on President Donald Trump’s behalf to overturn the results of the November election by objecting to Electoral College votes cast by Arizona for President-elect Joe Biden.\nHouse and Senate Republicans formally objected to Arizona’s votes soon after the joint session of Congress got underway on Wednesday, prompting the two chambers to split up to separately debate and vote on the objection.\nGOP objections to at least two other state results are expected later Wednesday.\nThe push is destined to fail, with Democrats and a significant number of Republicans planning to vote down all of the objections in both the House and the Senate, criticizing the effort both as a hopeless attempt to reverse the election outcome and as a threat to democracy that would subvert the will of the voters.\nTrack the electoral vote count in Congress\nThe joint session got underway at 1 p.m. ET Wednesday and is poised to be a messy and contentious affair that will last late into evening and possibly into Thursday before Congress finally affirms Biden’s win over Trump, 306 electoral votes to 232.\nSome Senate Republicans are expected to join their House counterparts to object to results in Arizona, Georgia and Pennsylvania, and the House objectors are also seeking to force debate over votes in Michigan, Nevada and Wisconsin. Debate will last up to two hours per objection, followed by votes in each chamber.\nSenate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who has sided against those challenging the results, is expected to speak first in the Senate when the chambers recess to debate the initial objection, setting the tone for the rest of the day.\nWhile there is no evidence of widespread voter fraud, Trump and his campaign have been pushing baseless and false conspiracy theories that the election was rigged against him. The President and his allies lost dozens of lawsuits across the country both claiming fraud and challenging the constitutionality of state election laws altered due to the Covid-19 pandemic.\nAll eyes on Pence\nAs his losses have mounted, Trump has gone after the courts that ruled against him, state election officials and lawmakers who haven’t embraced his conspiracy theories or tried to overturn the will of the voters, Senate Republicans who oppose his anti-democratic push to overturn the Electoral College result and even Vice President Mike Pence, who will preside over Wednesday’s joint session of Congress.\nTrump addressed his supporters who converged on Washington near the White House on Wednesday morning, continuing to pressure Pence to go beyond his authority in Wednesday’s joint session of Congress.\n“I hope Mike is going to do the right thing,” Trump said at the rally on the Ellipse. “If Mike Pence does the right thing, we win the election.”\nBut Pence wrote in a letter to lawmakers Wednesday that he did not have the “unilateral authority” to intervene.\n“Our Founders were deeply skeptical of concentrations of power and created a Republic based on separation of powers and checks and balances under the Constitution of the United States,” Pence wrote. “Vesting the Vice President with unilateral authority to decide presidential contests would be entirely antithetical to that design.”\nHundreds of law enforcement officers, including the DC National Guard, have mobilized across Washington to support local authorities during the pro-Trump demonstrations as city leaders are bracing for potential clashes and violence.\nCongress’ counting of the Electoral College votes is typically little more than an afterthought, after the Electoral College officially votes for President in December. Just twice since the process was established in the 19th century have votes been forced on Electoral College results, and several other would-be challenges have quickly fizzled because no senator joined them.\nMcConnell sought to dissuade any senators from signing onto the objections to the Electoral College votes, which would have prevented roll-call votes on the challenges. But last week, Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley announced he would join the objection to Pennsylvania.\nRep. Paul Gosar, an Arizona Republican, objected to Arizona’s election results, along with with Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas.\nGeorgia GOP Sen. Kelly Loeffler — who CNN projects has lost her seat to Democrat Raphael Warnock but will remain in office until Tuesday’s Georgia runoff results are certified — has signaled she will object to Georgia’s result.\nJoint session in the shadow of Georgia’s runoff\nWednesday’s debate is playing out as Democrats are on the cusp of sweeping the Georgia Senate races and taking control of a 50-50 Senate after Biden is sworn in and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris becomes the Senate’s tie-breaking vote.\nWednesday’s looming votes have created a major divide inside the Republican Party. The Senate Republican fight spilled into the open last week following Hawley’s announcement, with Trump attacking McConnell and other Republicans who haven’t joined.\nIn the House, No. 3 Republican Liz Cheney of Wyoming — daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney — has forcefully pushed back on the objections, while Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy has quietly backed them.\nFor every state where there’s a House member and senator objecting, the two chambers will separate and debate for two hours, before voting on the objection. Aides have predicted each state objection will take as much as four hours.\nThe states’ votes will be read alphabetically. That means Arizona is likely to be the first objection that Republicans raise. If either chamber votes down the objection after the debate, the states’ votes are counted and then counting continues.\nThe last time a lawmaker forced votes on the Electoral College results was in 2005, when Sen. Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat, objected to President George W. Bush’s win in Ohio, which she said was never an effort to overturn the election result. In 2017, a group of House Democrats raised several objections to states Trump won, but they were gaveled down because they didn’t have a senator join — by then-vice president Biden.}}
{{Jack Yates High School alumni held a vigil and walk in MacGregor Park on Saturday to honor George Floyd.\nFloyd, a Houston native, grew up in the Third Ward and graduated from Jack Yates High School where he played football. Floyd graduated from the school in 1993.\nHe died in Minneapolis police custody while being arrested Monday. Video showed an officer kneeling on Floyd’s neck, pinning him to the ground while he pleaded that he couldn’t breathe.\nDozens gathered in the park to honor their classmate. Many wore crimson and gold, the Yates High School official colors.Others carried posters. One sign read “Enough Injustice Justice Now!”\nBefore the event began, organizers cautioned attendees to respect the event and maintain a peaceful presence in the park.\n“We’re not here to rile up the city,” said attendee and Yates High School alum Marcus Brooks. “We’re here to bring love and just harmony but also to celebrate the life of George and bring focus to injustice. Period. Not just in Houston but all over the world.”\nDemonstrations are being held across the country in the wake of Floyd's death. A rally in Houston Friday began as a peaceful demonstration turned less than overnight as groups blocked highway entrances, threw objects at officers, smashed the windows and windshields of a police cruiser, shattered the windows of area businesses and looted at least one store.\n100 to 150 people were arrested during the rally and a handful of HPD officers sustained minor injuries.}}
{{Currently Reading\nAlert: Republicans object to election tally in Arizona, forcing votes in House and Senate on Biden's victory in state}}
{{A combo of satellite images of the port of Beirut and the surrounding area in Lebanon, left, taken on May 31, 2020 and on the right taken on Wednesday Aug. 5, 2020 show the destruction following a massive blast on Tuesday.}}
{{MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — George Floyd’s death after his arrest by police officers in Minneapolis on May 25, 2020, sparked widespread anger after millions of people saw video of the event. The four officers at the scene were quickly fired and charged in his death. The agonizing bystander video shows Floyd repeatedly crying “I can’t breathe” and eventually going still as Officer Derek Chauvin presses his knee on Floyd’s neck. The video’s release sparked immediate protests and sometimes violent riots nationwide and around the world. The jury reached a verdict on Tuesday.}}
{{With key battleground states down to the wire for electoral college votes, many are wondering what happens if a candidate hits 270 exactly.\nWASHINGTON — Donald Trump and Joe Biden are in a tight race for the 2020 presidential election, with several key battleground states still counting ballots before electoral votes are granted.\nWith battleground states pulling heavier electoral weight in the final hours, like those already called in Michigan and Wisconsin, the field for a favored candidate grows tighter.\nCandidates need at least 270 electoral votes to win the presidency. But what happens in a situation where they get exactly 270 votes?\nLet's Verify.\nQUESTION: If a candidate gets exactly 270 electoral votes, will they still win the presidency?\nANSWER: Yes\nSOURCES:\nPROCESS:\nAcross all 50 states and DC, there's a total of 538 electoral votes in action. Each state receives its number of electoral votes based on population, but every state has at least 3. Why 270? Well, that's the number needed for a simple majority to win.\nIt doesn't matter if a candidate receives exactly 270 electoral votes or more than 270 -- all that matters is that you hit that benchmark.\nSo yes, if a candidate hits 270 on the button, they win. If Democratic nominee Joe Biden -- who was reported by the Associated Press to have 264 electoral votes as of late Wednesday -- grabs a state like Nevada, with six additional votes, that would give him exactly 270 votes, securing the presidency.\nTrump does not have a path to reach the exact number of 270, but with states like Georgia, North Carolina and Pennsylvania still in play, he could exceed it.\nThere’s no scenario for this in the current election, but in a case where neither candidate reaches 270, then the U.S. House of Representatives determines the president.\nThe Senate determines the vice presidency via a simple majority vote of all 100 senators.\nRegardless, even if states are "called" for projected wins, they won't be official right away. Electors will not officially cast their ballots until Dec.14, with Congress meeting to accept and count those votes until Jan. 6.\nWhat would it take for the Electoral College to be eliminated?\nThe Electoral College was originally born back at the 1787 Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia. But what would eliminating the Electoral College all together look like?\nThis would require a constitutional amendment -- which would need a ⅔ vote from Congress, and ¾ approval from states.\nEric Heberlig, a professor at UNC Charlotte, said the last time this happened was when the 27th amendment was ratified back in 1992. He said it would require a lot of coordination from both the states and a divided Congress to see an amendment ratified, which isn't likely.}}
{{Ben Wallace has authorised a British warship to assist in the aftermath of the Beirut explosion as the UK Government pledged to send £5million in humanitarian aid to Lebanon.\nThe Defence Secretary confirmed that the Royal Navy will send HMS Enterprise, a survey vessel currently based in Cyprus, to help Beirut prepare to rebuild its port following the catastrophic blast which left thousands injured and more than 100 dead.\nMr Wallace added that the ship will assess the damage and support “the Lebanese government and people rebuild this vital piece of national infrastructure”.\nThe Daily Telegraph understands that HMS Enterprise, which carries survey launchers to conduct in-shore work, will not deploy immediately.\n“The main aim of sending her is to survey the harbour,” a naval source said.\nOnce in Beirut she will deploy the launchers, which are small boats designed to conduct in-shore survey work, in order to assess the shallow waters.\n“There will be debris everywhere,” the source added. “She will assist in reopening the port and helping in the medium to long term, such as importing goods via sea freight.”}}
{{In the twisted wreckage of Beirut’s port and surrounding areas, the official death toll is already in three figures, the number of injured well beyond 5,000. More may be trapped in the rubble. Tuesday’s explosion has brought further suffering to a nation that in recent decades has suffered more than its fair share. It has layered a human disaster on top of a currency, debt, fiscal and banking crisis that had led to mass business failures and job losses even before coronavirus struck. While accidents can happen even in the best-run countries, moreover, the circumstances of this one appear to reflect the same sort of misgovernance, corruption and incompetence that have, in effect, bankrupted the country.\nMany Lebanese will see the tragedy as a further indictment of the failures of the ruling class. The authorities will be under pressure to explain how 2,750 tonnes of explosive ammonium nitrate — in effect a giant ticking bomb — could have been stored for six years in a dockside warehouse near the heart of Beirut. The danger of that stockpile had been brought to the courts several times, without result.\nThe capital’s port, and other infrastructure objects and utilities from airports to the electricity system, too often operate as tools of patronage for the factions that have…}}
{{Floyd and Chauvin, 44, had worked together at a Minneapolis nightclub as recently as last year.\n"Chauvin was our off-duty police for almost the entirety of the 17 years that we were open," said Maya Santamaria, owner of El Nuevo Rancho, where Floyd worked as a bouncer.\n"They were working together at the same time, it's just that Chauvin worked outside and the security guards were inside."\nShe did not know if the two men knew each other.\nThe officers, four of them now, made several attempts to get Floyd in the backseat of the police car, on the driver’s side, but Floyd "did not voluntarily get in the car and struggled with the officers by intentionally falling down,” according to the document.\nWhile standing outside the car, Floyd began saying that he could not breathe.\nThe officers then attempted to get him into the car from the passenger side.\nNext, Chauvin pulled Floyd out of the passenger side of the squad car and he landed face down and still handcuffed, according to the complaint.\nTwo of the officers held his legs down and then, at 8.19pm, Chauvin placed his left knee on the back of Floyd's neck.\nAs Floyd said "I can't breathe" and "Mama" and "please," the complaint states that the officers stayed in their positions.\nAn officer told Floyd: "You are talking fine."\nLane eventually asked: "Should we roll him on his side?"\nChauvin responded: "No, staying put where we got him."\nWhen Lane said he was "worried about excited delirium," Chauvin said: "That's why we have him on his stomach," the statement reads.\nAt 8.24pm, Floyd stopped moving.\nApproximately a minute later, video "appears to show Mr Floyd ceasing to breathe or speak."\nKeung checked for a pulse on Floyd's right wrist, and said he couldn't find one.\nStill none of the officers moved from their positions.\nAt 8.27pm, Chauvin removed his knee from Floyd's neck, according to the statement.\nAn ambulance was called to the scene and Floyd was pronounced dead at Hennepin County Medical Center shortly after.}}
{{Sign up to FREE email alerts from Mirror - daily news Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Invalid Email\nThe Mirror's US Editor Christopher Bucktin has been reporting from the streets in the US as outrage over the killing of an unarmed black man grows.\nHere he tells us what he's seen in a country at war with itself.\nOverwhelmed and woefully underprepared, America burned as at least 30 cities became engulfed in anger over the death of unarmed black man George Floyd by white cops.\nFor months the country had been gripped by disease, mass unemployment and an apocalyptic economy but now outrage at the police is all that matters here.\nAs I stood on the ravaged streets of Minneapolis in the early hours of Saturday morning with the thousands of demonstrators protesting Mr Floyd’s fatal arrest, it didn’t take long before their anger turned once again to violence.\n(Image: Getty) (Image: Getty)\nBut they were no longer alone.\nFrom east to west coast deadly protests broke out nationwide forcing many states to declare emergencies.\nTwo government private security officers were shot - one fatally - in Oakland, California, while at least 7,500 demonstrators took to the city’s streets.\nIn Detroit, a 19-year-old protester was shot dead by a group of men while police were seen violently throwing a 20-year-old woman to the ground in New York.\nPhoenix, Denver and Houston were all left vandalised as hundreds of people were arrested.\n(Image: Getty) (Image: Chris Bucktin)\nMeanwhile the President Donald Trump gloated rioters were damaging the Atlantia headquarters of CNN - the news channel he despises.\n“In an ironic twist of fate, CNN HQ is being attacked by the very riots they promoted as noble and just. Oops,” he tweeted.\nIt came just days after Twitter was forced to mark his tweets as “glorifying violence” after he posted “when the looting starts, the shooting starts”.\nFearing all-out war across America, Trump has instructed soldiers in North Carolina, New York, Colorado and Kansas be put on orders ready to move.\nIt is the first time since the 1992 LA riots such a call has been made.\n(Image: Getty)\nThe order came as the Secret Service was confronted for five hours by demonstrators at the White House as Trump sat inside.\nToday he tweeted the protesters “would have been greeted with the most vicious dogs, and most ominous weapons, I have ever seen,” had they breached the fence.\nDespite a global pandemic killing more than 100,000 Americans while leaving 40 million unemployed in its wake, people in the States now have greater concerns on their minds than the coronavirus.\nWhile they fight to be heard, Trump instead wages his war against Twitter, postal voting in the upcoming election all while encouraging looters to be shot.\nAmerica’s persistent political dysfunction and racial inequality have been laid bare since last week - a reminder of how black people are killed by law enforcement in disproportionately high numbers.\n(Image: Getty) (Image: Getty)\nIt is a nation in crisis - one seared by violence against its people, plagued by a deadly disease that remains uncontrolled all while reeling by a devastating blow to its economy.\nNone more so than in Minneapolis - a melting pot of immigrants maligned by Trump and his administration.\nA walk down burning Lake Street shows the contempt felt for the US leader whose has served only to fan the flames of the unrest that now plagues the country.\n“F*** Trump,” can be seen hundreds, if not thousands of times sprayed on to burnt out and looted businesses.\nThe charging on Friday of now ex-cop Derek Chauvin with the murder of Mr Floyd, 46, did little to quell the anger.\nThe criminal complaint against him only fuelled the violence more after it told how the officer’s knee had been on the father-of-two’s neck for eight minutes and 46 seconds.\nFor two minutes and 53 seconds of that Mr Floyd was unresponsive.\nVideo Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now\nFearing a fourth night of violence on Friday, city leaders put in place an 8pm curfew, but in a show of furious and violent contempt, defiant rioters rampaged across Minneapolis.\nIt led to unprecedented havoc as they set billowing fires, looted and vandalised businesses all while shot at police officers, who finally emerged from the shadows with rubber bullets and tear gas.\nAs the curfew drew close, I stood by the now destroyed Third Police Precinct, the station once the base of Chauvin and the three others officers - all of whom have now been fired - involved in Mr Floyd’s fatal arrest.\nI watched through my tear-gassed streaming eyes the National Guard joined hundreds of militarised police as loudspeaker announcements were made telling the crowds to disperse. But no one listened.\nInstead, over the next three hours, the demonstrators slowly walked forward for several miles before not one cop was left in sight.\nIt was clear authorities had underestimated size and tactics of protestors who as the night wore on were replaced by hundreds of rioters.\nMinnesota Governor Tim Walz later said: “This is the largest concentration of law enforcement in the history of Minnesota. And it’s not enough.”\nHe said the destruction was “life-threatening, dangerous to the most well-qualified forces facing this,” telling rioters “You need to go home, you need to go home. Our neighbours are afraid.”\nBut no one cared.\nOne of those present, Karis Jameel, 24, told me: “If they could tell me what else I could do, if they could tell me a better way to change America and ends it police brutality, then I will leave the streets.\n“But they have no answers. The only time we are ever listened to is when cities burn, and they are burning now all over America.”\n(Image: Reuters)\nList of States with protests}}
{{WASHINGTON (Sputnik) - The jury in former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin's murder trial has reached a verdict, the cable network Court TV reported on Tuesday.\nThe verdict is expected to be announced later this afternoon around 4:30 or 5:00 p.m. ET.\nA broadcaster said employees at the court house have been told to go home early ahead of the verdict announcement.\nChauvin, a former officer of the Minneapolis Police Department, is facing murder and manslaughter charges after Floyd, 46, died following an arrest attempt on May 25 last year.\nWhile trying to arrest Floyd who was accused of using a fake $20 bill at a local convenience store, Chauvin, now 45, kneed on the neck of the African American man three times for almost a total of ten minutes.\n© REUTERS / ADREES LATIF Philonise Floyd, brother of George Floyd, raises his fist as he arrives with family members, Reverend Al Sharpton, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee and attorney Adner Marcelin to the Hennepin County Government Center for closing arguments in the murder trial of former police officer Derek Chauvin, who is facing murder charges in the death of George Floyd, in Minneapolis, Minnesota, U.S., April 19, 2021.\nChauvin is facing three charges: second-degree murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.\nIn Minnesota, the second-degree murder charge carries a maximum prison sentence of 40 years, while third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter charges carry a prison sentence of up to 20 years and 10 years, respectively.\nHowever, for someone who doesn’t have a criminal record like Chauvin, a guilty verdict on the second-degree murder charge is expected to be sentenced to 12.5 years in prison, under the Minnesota Sentencing Guidelines.}}
{{ANNAPOLIS, Md. (WJZ/AP) — The Maryland Board of State Canvassers officially certified the state’s 2020 general election results Friday, just over one month after the election.\nThe board approved a declaration of results during a meeting held remotely Friday afternoon because of the coronavirus pandemic.\nResults show 65.4% of votes, or close to 2 million, were cast for Biden in the heavily Democratic state. President Donald Trump received 32.2% of votes.\nThe Libertarian ticket of Jo Jorgenson and Jeremy Spike Cohen got 33,488 votes, just over 1%, while Green party candidate Howie Hawkins got 15,799. Rapper Kanye West, meanwhile, got 1,117 votes.\nMaryland’s Board of Canvassers officially certified the 2020 general election today. Joe Biden (65.4%) defeated President Trump (32.2%) by >1 million votes. Kanye West got 1,117 write-in votes. Results: https://t.co/gMKv9B45EU — Paul Gessler (@PaulGessler) December 4, 2020\nDemocrats outnumber Republicans 2-to-1 in Maryland. In 2016, Trump received 34% of the vote in the state. A Republican presidential candidate hasn’t won Maryland in 32 years. George H.W. Bush was the last to do so in 1988.\nBoard Secretary Linda Lamone said 74% of registered voters cast ballots, half of them did so by mail. Of those who voted by mail, two-thirds returned their ballots using drop-off boxes.\nAll eight of Maryland’s U.S. House incumbents won reelection.\nAll states must certify elections before the Electoral College meets Dec. 14. Any challenge to the results must be resolved by Tuesday.\nNow that the results have been certified, the state’s electors for the Electoral College will meet at the State House in Annapolis on Dec. 14, the state’s elections board said. That group will then cast the state’s electoral votes for the presidential and vice presidential races, which will be counted along with other states during a joint session of Congress on Jan. 6.\n“Despite the public health emergency gripping the nation, millions of voters from across the state were able to exercise their right to vote in the 2020 general election,” Maryland State Board of Elections Administrator Linda Lamone said in a news release. “Election workers and officials from each of Maryland’s 24 jurisdictions worked tirelessly and in good faith to oversee a free and fair election in which every eligible ballot was counted. An independent audit of the election count demonstrated Maryland’s results were extremely accurate and uncovered no sign of irregularities. Given the many daunting challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic, these findings are a tribute to the thousands of Marylanders who devoted their time and effort to managing a safe, secure and precise election process.”\nBaltimore City certified its election results on November 18.\n(© Copyright 2020 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.)}}
{{National-World\nPolice body camera footage showing Minneapolis police pointing a gun at George Floyd and struggling with him during his fatal arrest was released Monday.\nCNN is reviewing the videos. The network was permitted last month to view, but not air, the May 25 footage. Eleven weeks after Floyd’s killing, protesters continue to take their anger to the streets of American cities.\nThe footage, roughly an hour in length, comes from the body cameras of former officers Thomas Lane and J. Alexander Kueng, who were the first to respond to a store where Floyd was accused of passing a fake $20 bill.\nAbout 36 seconds after speaking to a store employee, the officers are outside the vehicle Floyd is driving. Lane trains his handgun on Floyd telling him, “Put your f**king hands up right now!” Floyd pleads with officers, sobbing, at one point putting his head on the steering wheel.\nAround three minutes into the video, the officers forcibly pull Floyd from the car and handcuff him. Another struggle ensues when Lane and Kueng attempt to put Floyd in a police SUV.\nKueng tries to push Floyd in through a back door of the SUV, while Lane pulls him from the opposite door. Floyd is yelling throughout and says, “I can’t breathe” for the first time during the encounter.\nFloyd falls out of the vehicle on Lane’s side as two more policemen, Tou Thao and Derek Chauvin, arrive and assist in restraining Floyd. The 46-year-old hits the ground alongside the vehicle, the position he was in when 17-year-old Darnella Frazier began filming his final moments.\nRoughly 11 minutes and 23 seconds into Lane’s body camera video, Chauvin places his knee on Floyd’s neck. He’s already been cuffed for about eight minutes.\nAround 16 minutes into the footage, Floyd utters his final words: “Man, I can’t breathe.” Paramedics arrive about nine minutes after Chauvin puts his knee on Floyd’s neck. A minute later, he is limp and paramedics load him onto a gurney.\nThe Minneapolis Police Department previously said it was not releasing the footage because it was part of an investigation into the officers’ response.\nLane’s attorney filed the footage in court last month as evidence supporting a motion to dismiss the charges against his client. Only transcripts from the tape were made public. Hennepin County District Judge Peter Cahill then allowed the media to view it.\nMedia outlets, including CNN, filed a motion calling for the release of the videos, but Cahill initially declined the request.\nFloyd died after Chauvin knelt on Floyd’s neck for nearly eight minutes. Lane and Kueng helped restrain Floyd as Thao stood between the officers and angry onlookers.\nChauvin is charged with second-degree murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter. Lane, Kueng and Thao are charged with aiding and abetting second-degree murder and aiding and abetting second-degree manslaughter. All four officers were fired.\nChauvin’s attorney declined to comment when CNN viewed the footage in July. Thao’s and Kueng’s attorneys have declined repeated requests for comment.\nLane’s attorney, Earl Gray, says Lane asked twice if Floyd should be moved to his side, but Chauvin, a veteran, told Lane that Floyd was fine and to keep him there till an ambulance arrived, according to a court motion.\nLane didn’t see any “visible intentional infliction of harm,” felt restraining Floyd was justified and wasn’t aware Chauvin was committing a crime, the motion says.}}
{{By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. You can find out more by clicking this link}}
{{FILE – This April 18, 2013 aerial file photo, shows the remains of a nursing home, left, apartment complex, center, and fertilizer plant, right, destroyed by an explosion at a fertilizer plant in West, Texas. Images of a massive explosion in the Lebanese capital looked depressingly familiar to West, Texas Mayor Tommy, whose small town in 2013 was partly leveled by one of the deadliest fertilizer plant explosions in U.S. history. “I don’t know what people were thinking about storing that stuff,” Muska said, Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. (AP Photo/Tony Gutierrez, File)\nAUSTIN, Texas (AP) — The staggering videos from the Lebanese capital are grimly familiar to Tommy Muska thousands of miles away in Texas: a towering blast, a thundering explosion and shock waves demolishing buildings with horrifying speed.\nIt is what the mayor of West, Texas, lived seven years ago when one of the deadliest fertilizer plant explosions in U.S. history partly leveled his rural town. On Wednesday, Muska also couldn’t shake a familiar feeling — that yet again, no lessons will be learned.\n“I don’t know what people were thinking about storing that stuff,” Muska told The Associated Press. He was a volunteer firefighter at the time of the West explosion.\nThe 2013 disaster at the West Fertilizer Co. was a fraction of the size of Tuesday’s explosion at Beirut’s port that authorities say killed least 135 people and wounded about 5,000. Both blasts involved massive stockpiles of ammonium nitrate, a common but highly explosive chemical, and swift allegations that negligence and weak government oversight were to blame.\nFew significant crackdowns on chemical storage came in the wake of the West explosion, which killed 15 people. President Donald Trump scaled back industrial safety and disaster regulations enacted in direct response to the tragedy in Texas.\nWith a government mired in factional fighting and corruption, Lebanon offers an extreme example of what was once a bustling business economy operating now under little dependable regulation and enforcement.\nThe investigation is focusing on how a reported 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate came to be stored at the facility for six years and why nothing was done about it. The chemical had been stored at the port since it was confiscated from a ship in 2013. On Tuesday it is believed to have detonated when a fire started nearby.\nIn Texas, authorities suspected arson but no arrests have been made. The West explosion had the force of a small earthquake. It flattened homes in a five-block radius and destroyed a nursing home where residents, some in wheelchairs, were trapped in rubble. Ten of those killed in the blast were firefighters or first responders.\n“We don’t seem to learn that chemical is deadly,” Muska said. “I feel for those people in Beirut, I surely do. It brought back a lot of memories.”\nLast year, the Trump administration scaled back chemical safety measures that included ending a requirement that plants provide members of the public information about chemical risks upon request. Chemical manufacturers had pushed for the changes.\nThe Obama-era Chemical Disaster Rule is one of several rules or proposals meant to lessen the risks of major, possibly high-casualty industrial disasters that have been weakened under Trump. Others include stripping a Nuclear Regulatory Commission proposed rule that would have required nuclear plants to greatly harden their facilities against the kind of natural disasters that struck the plant in Fukushima, Japan.\nOther steps cut proposed safety requirements for offshore rigs after the Deepwater Horizon explosion, and allowed shipment of liquefied natural gas by rail despite criticism from several states, firefighters and the National Transportation Safety Board.\nThe Environmental Protection Agency, which has trimmed scores of environmental and public health protections that the Trump administration sees as unfriendly to business, did not immediately respond to a request for comment Wednesday about the rollback.\nAt the time, EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said the weakening of the proposed Chemical Disaster Rule would save $88 million a year in compliance costs. Wheeler said the administration’s move “addresses emergency responders’ longstanding concerns and maintains important public safety measures” while saving money.\nElena Craft, a Texas-based senior director with the Environmental Defense Fund environmental group, cited the Chemical Disaster Rule among a series of other proposals weakening protections for the communities — often lower-income, and disproportionately Black or Hispanic — living around dangerous industrial sites.\nEven the West, Texas, disaster, with its toll on first responders, failed to change the regulatory picture much after the headlines faded away, Craft said. “It’s always been sort of the constant story … it gets to be accepted business in Texas.”\nIn 1989, Juan Flores was in sixth grade when an explosion at a Phillips 66 plastics plant near his Galena Park, Texas, community outside Houston killed 23. The blast shook Flores’ school and blew out windows.\nThat area bordering Houston’s Shipping Channel is the nation’s hub for oil and gas and petrochemicals. Yet Houston’s lack of zoning means residents’ yards in poorer and minority neighborhoods butt up against looming chemical and petroleum storage tanks or booming industrial sites working with hazardous materials.\nSix major chemical explosions have rocked the Houston area since March 2019 alone. One, an explosion at a chemical tank, prompted widespread shelter-in-place orders for residents and sent a mile-high plume of smoke over the city for days. A more recent chemical blast, in January, killed three people and damaged more than 450 surrounding buildings.\n“To see that happen” in Beirut, it was the worst-case scenario for already worried people in his community, said Flores, a community activist and former Galena Park mayor. “There’s one or two plants here, if they ever go, there’s a chance we could wind up in that situation.”\nIn West, street images on Google Maps still show crumbled buildings that were taken shortly after the blast that shook the town of only 3,000 people. “They’ve never come back with their little car,” Muska said of Google.\nAmmonium nitrate isn’t stored in the town any longer. “It’s got it’s useful places in the farming community,” Muska said. “But it’s also, like we just saw yesterday, it can just be devastating.”\n___\nKnickmeyer reported from Oklahoma City.}}
{{Fires have burned unchecked and thousands of people are protesting in Minneapolis against the police killing of George Floyd – in defiance of a curfew.\nUnrest has overwhelmed authorities for another night in the city in the state of Minnesota, with the governor acknowledging that he does not have enough manpower to contain the chaos.\nMeanwhile, US president Donald Trump fired off a series of tweets ridiculing people who protested outside the White House and praising the Secret Service who used shields and pepper spray to push them back.\nHundreds of people had gathered on Friday night to protest against the police killing as well as Mr Trump’s response.\nThe president tweeted he watched from inside the White House as officers “let the ‘protesters’ scream & rant as much as they wanted, but whenever someone …. got too frisky or out of line, they would quickly come down on them, hard – didn’t know what hit them”.\nThe professionally managed so-called “protesters” at the White House had little to do with the memory of George Floyd. They were just there to cause trouble. The @SecretService handled them easily. Tonight, I understand, is MAGA NIGHT AT THE WHITE HOUSE??? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2020\nMr Trump said if the protesters had managed to breach the White House fence, “they would … have been greeted with the most vicious dogs, and most ominous weapons, I have ever seen”.\nThe US president ended the last of five tweets by saying, “Tonight, I understand, is MAGA NIGHT AT THE WHITE HOUSE???”\nThe continued unrest, which has spread to other US cities, came despite Minnesota governor Tim Walz vowing on Friday to show a more forceful response than city leaders had the day before.\nGreat job last night at the White House by the U.S. @SecretService. They were not only totally professional, but very cool. I was inside, watched every move, and couldn’t have felt more safe. They let the “protesters” scream & rant as much as they wanted, but whenever someone…. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2020\nHowever, by early on Saturday morning, Mr Walz said he did not have enough troops, even with some 500 National Guardsmen.\n“We do not have the numbers,” he said. “We cannot arrest people when we are trying to hold ground.”\nMr Walz said he was moving quickly to mobilise more than 1,000 extra Guard members, for a total of 1,700, and was considering the potential offer of federal military police.\nMayor Jacob Frey of Minneapolis will never be mistaken for the late, great General Douglas McArthur or great fighter General George Patton. How come all of these places that defend so poorly are run by Liberal Democrats? Get tough and fight (and arrest the bad ones). STRENGTH! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2020\nHowever, he warned that even that might not be enough, saying he expected another difficult night ahead.\nThe Pentagon has ordered the US army to put military police units on alert to head to the city on short notice, at President Donald Trump’s request, insiders said.\nThe rare step came as the violence spread to other cities, with a man shot dead in Detroit, police cars attacked in Atlanta and skirmishes with officers in New York City.\nCriminal charges were filed on Friday morning against the white police officer who held his knee for nearly nine minutes on the neck of Mr Floyd, a black man who was handcuffed at the time. However, this has done nothing to stem the widespread anger.\nMinnesota National Guard members maintain a position on Lake Street (David Joles/Star Tribune/AP)\nDerek Chauvin, 44, has been charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.\nMinneapolis police said shots had been fired at officers during the protests, but no-one was injured.\nAs the night dragged on, fires erupted across the city’s south side, including at a Japanese restaurant, a Wells Fargo bank and an Office Depot. Many burned for hours, with firefighters again delayed in reaching them because areas were not secure.\nOn Thursday, protesters had torched a police station soon after it was abandoned by police and went on to burn or vandalise dozens of businesses.\nThe Minnesota Police and Peace Officers Association urged Mr Walz to accept any help.\n“You need more resources,” the group said in a tweet. “Law enforcement needs leadership.”\nMore than 1,000 additional Citizen-Soldiers and Airmen are activating today. This is in addition to the 700 that were on duty as of late last night. This represents the largest domestic deployment in the Minnesota’s National Guard’s 164-year history. pic.twitter.com/aV9NOFv5uo — MN National Guard (@MNNationalGuard) May 30, 2020\nChauvin was also accused of ignoring another officer who expressed concerns about Mr Floyd as he pleaded that he could not breathe, while Chauvin pressed his knee into his neck for several minutes.\nMr Floyd had been arrested on suspicion of using a counterfeit twenty dollar bill at a store.\nChauvin, who was fired along with three other officers who were at the scene, faces more than 12 years in prison if convicted of murder.\nAn attorney for Mr Floyd’s family welcomed the arrest, but said he expected a more serious murder charge, and wants the other officers arrested, too.\nProsecutor Mike Freeman said more charges were possible, but authorities “felt it appropriate to focus on the most dangerous perpetrator”.\nDemonstrators assist a protester who collapsed after inhaling tear gas fired by police in St Paul, Minnesota (AP)\nProtests nationwide have been fuelled by outrage over Mr Floyd’s death and years of police violence against African Americans.\nProtesters smashed windows at CNN headquarters in Atlanta, set a police car on fire and struck officers with bottles.\nLarge demonstrations in New York, Houston, Washington, DC, and dozens of other cities ranged from people peacefully blocking roads to repeated clashes with police.\n“You are disgracing our city,” Atlanta mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms told protesters. “You are disgracing the life of George Floyd and every other person who has been killed in this country.”\nA post-mortem examination said the combined effects of being restrained, potential intoxicants in Mr Floyd’s system and his underlying health issues, including heart disease, likely contributed to his death. It revealed nothing to support strangulation as the cause of death.\nFires rage along a strip of businesses in St Paul, a neighbouring city of Minneapolis (AP)\nMr Trump said on Friday that he had spoken to Floyd’s family and “expressed my sorrow”.\nHe called video of the arrest “just a horrible thing to witness and to watch. It certainly looked like there was no excuse for it”.\nAttorney Benjamin Crump, who is representing Floyd’s family, asked to take custody of Floyd’s body for an independent post-mortem examination.\nThe doctor who will carry out the procedure is Michael Baden, former chief medical examiner of New York City.\nHe was hired to examine Eric Garner, a black man who died in 2014 after New York police placed him in a chokehold, and he pleaded that he could not breathe.\nState and federal authorities also are investigating Mr Floyd’s death.}}
{{AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana People attend a rally in support of President Donald Trump on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, in Washington.\nSupporters of President Donald Trump on Wednesday took to the streets of downtown Washington, DC, in protest of Congress’ certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s win in the 2020 election.\nBiden won 306 votes compared to Trump’s 232 during the Electoral College vote in December.\nFor the past two months, Trump has refused to accept his loss, and instead launched dozens of failed lawsuits while claiming – without evidence – that widespread fraud was responsible for his defeat.\nwithout evidence that widespread fraud was responsible for his defeat. Trump, who spoke Wednesday to his supporters, had encouraged them on Twitter to come to DC to protest the certification.\nVisit Business Insider’s homepage for more stories.\nThousands of supporters of President Donald Trump took to the streets of the nation’s capital Wednesday as part of the latest effort in support of “Stop the Steal,” the name given to the movement that denies President-elect Joe Biden’s winning of the 2020 presidential election.\nFor the past two months, Trump has refused to accept election defeat and has bemoaned a ploy by Democrats to rig it, despite him and his allies providing no substantial evidence of that or of widespread voter fraud. Dozens of lawsuits filed by Trump and his legal team have been fruitless in their attempts to subvert the results.\nThe “Stop the Steal” movement was birthed on Election Day when supporters of the president protested for state election officials to stop counting ballots to maintain Trump’s early-in-the-race lead. Trump’s lead waned and eventually disappeared in the hours and days following the election when mail-in ballots were counted. The president had discouraged his followers from casting ballots by mail, while Democrats encouraged them because of the COVID-19 pandemic.\nAbout a dozen GOP senators have said they plan to object to the certification of the Electoral College vote, which in December reaffirmed Biden’s win over Trump. Biden secured 306 votes to Trump’s 232. Some Republicans in the House are also expected to object Wednesday, but none of the objections are expected to impact Biden’s certification.\nTrump, meanwhile, has implied that Vice President Mike Pence would himself refuse to certify the results of the Electoral College vote when he presides over the Senate on Wednesday, though Pence does not have the power for such a move.\nAs Congress prepared to meet to certify the results, supporters of the outgoing president from across the US showed up to Washington to once more reject the results of the election. Trump had encouraged them to descend on the city.\nThousands of supporters of Trump descended on Washington after Trump in tweets had encouraged them to come.\nAP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin With the Washington Monument in the background, people attend a rally in support of President Donald Trump near the White House on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, in Washington.\nSource: President Donald Trump, Twitter\nDespite claims from President Trump and his GOP allies, there is no evidence of widespread voter fraud in the 2020 election.\nSpencer Platt/Getty Images Trump supporters gathered in the nation’s capital today to protest the ratification of President-elect Joe Biden’s Electoral College victory over President Trump in the 2020 election.\nSource: Business Insider\nWhile standing behind a wall of glass, Trump spoke to his supporters outside the White House, repeating his baseless claims about the election.\nAP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin President Donald Trump speaks at a rally Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, in Washington.\nSource: CNN reporter Daniel Dale\nTrump and his legal team have won zero of at least 42 lawsuits filed to overturn election results since November.\nSpencer Platt/Getty Images Crowds arrive for the ‘Stop the Steal’ rally on January 06, 2021 in Washington, DC.\nSource: Business Insider\nA woman pushing a suitcase and speaker wears a white skirt with sheets of paper reading ‘STOLEN’ attached to it.\nOLIVIER DOULIERY/AFP via Getty Images Supporters of US President Donald Trump hold a rally outside the US Capitol as they protest the upcoming electoral college certification of Joe Biden as US President in Washington, DC, on January 6, 2021.\nThe rally took place as the coronavirus pandemic rages through the US. More than 358,000 people in the nation have died from COVID-19.\nAP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin With the White House in the background, President Donald Trump speaks at a rally Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, in Washington.\nSource: Johns Hopkins University\nThe president’s second-born son, Eric, and his wife, Lara, spoke to demonstrators outside the White House on Wednesday.\nBRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP via Getty Images Demonstrators across Washington are protesting the 2020 presidential election Electoral Vote Certification by the US Congress.\nTrump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., also spoke at the ‘Stop the Steal’ demonstration.\nBRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP via Getty Images Donald Trump Jr. speaks during a rally of supporters of US President Donald Trump on The Ellipse outside of the White House on January 6, 2021, in Washington, DC.\nDC vendors sold Trump swag at the January 6 demonstration.\nAP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Hats with Trump sign are seen as people attend a rally in support of President Donald Trump on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, in Washington.\nMerchandise for sale at the rally included flags, t-shirts, and of course, hats.\nAP Photo/Jose Luis Magana With the Washington Monument in the background, people attend a rally in support of President Donald Trump on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, in Washington.\nA man wears a vest that references the baseless Q Anon conspiracy, which has been embraced by some Republicans.\nSpencer Platt/Getty Images Crowds arrive for the ‘Stop the Steal’ rally on January 06, 2021 in Washington, DC.\nSource: Business Insider\nThousands of supporters of the president took to the National Mall and surrounded the Washington Monument.\nJOSEPH PREZIOSO/AFP via Getty Images Thousands of supporters for US President Trump pack the Washington Mall for a rally in Washington, DC on January 6, 2021.\nA man dressed as DC Comics superhero Superman walks in a crowd of Trump supporters holding US and Trump flags.\nAP Photo/Jose Luis Magana With the Washington Monument in the background, people attend a rally in support of President Donald Trump on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, in Washington.\nA demonstrator holds a sign with a pro-police message. Many Democratic leaders called for police reform in 2020 after instances of violence by police.\nJOSEPH PREZIOSO/AFP via Getty Images Organisers hand out signs to be carried during the rally at a bus stop in Aberdeen, Maryland on January 6, 2021.\nSource: Business Insider\nDC police limited access to Black Lives Matter Plaza, a location in front of the White House that was renamed by DC Mayor Muriel Bowser this summer.\nAP Photo/Jose Luis Magana The White House is seen at the end of an empty Black Lives Matter plaza, as rallies in support of President Donald Trump continue elsewhere in the city on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, in Washington.\nSource: Business Insider\nA woman carries a sign claiming “Trump Won Big” despite President-elect Joe Biden winning more than 7 million more votes than Trump.\nAP Photo/Jose Luis Magana People attend a rally in support of President Donald Trump on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, in Washington.\nSource: Business Insider\nThe colours of the US flag, red, white, and blue, could be seen throughout the nation’s capitol on Wednesday.\nAP Photo/Jose Luis Magana People attend a rally in support of President Donald Trump on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, in Washington.\nTrump and his supporters on Election Day demanded states where Trump appeared in the lead to stop counting ballots, which served as the origin of the ‘Stop the Steal’ movement.\nOLIVIER DOULIERY/AFP via Getty Images Supporters of US President Donald Trump hold a rally outside the US Capitol as they protest the upcoming electoral college certification of Joe Biden as President in Washington, DC on January 6, 2021.\nSource: Business Insider\nA woman carries a sign that says ‘We are Trump’s adorable deplorables.” Trump supporters have embraced the term after it was first used as a jab against 2016 by Hillary Clinton.\nSpencer Platt/Getty Images Crowds arrive for the ‘Stop the Steal’ rally on January 06, 2021 in Washington, DC.\nSource: Business Insider\nThe rally came one day after the special election in Georgia which gave Democrats control in the US Senate.\nJOSEPH PREZIOSO/AFP via Getty Images A militia-like group makes their way to a rally for US President Donald Trump in Washington, DC on January 6, 2021.\nSource: Business Insider\nBusiness Insider Emails & Alerts Site highlights each day to your inbox. Email Address Join\nFollow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram.}}
{{A memorial to George Floyd on the Minneapolis street where he died\nAs the jury deliberates in the trial of former police officer Derek Chauvin, charged with murdering George Floyd, these are the main arguments used by the prosecution and defense during the three-week trial.\nChauvin, 45, who is white, was captured on video kneeling on the neck of Floyd, a 46-year-old African-American man, for more than nine minutes.\nHe is charged with murder and manslaughter for Floyd's May 25, 2020 death, which sparked protests across the United States and around the world against racial injustice and police brutality.\n- State of Minnesota -\nThe most compelling evidence in the case against Chauvin was the video of Floyd's arrest taken by a 17-year-old bystander, Darnella Frazier.\nProsecutors repeatedly showed excerpts from the video and in closing arguments, the state's attorney urged jurors to "believe your eyes."\n"This case is exactly what you thought when you saw it first, when you saw that video," prosecutor Steve Schleicher said.\n"This wasn't policing, this was murder," he said. "Nine minutes and 29 seconds of shocking abuse of authority."\nProsecutions of police officers are notoriously difficult in the United States because they enjoy what is called "qualified immunity," said David Schultz, a law professor at the University of Minnesota and Hamline University.\n"Generally you can't hold police officers criminally responsible unless you can show they didn't follow department procedure or protocol, that they didn't act the way a reasonable officer would," Schultz said.\nProsecutors called several police officers to testify that Chauvin's use of force against Floyd, who was being taken into custody for allegedly passing a counterfeit $20 bill, was excessive.\nThey included the Minneapolis police chief Medaria Arradondo, who said Chauvin's actions violated the department's training policies and its "values."\nFloyd's cause of death was also a key element of the trial and prosecutors called medical experts to testify that he died of hypoxia, or a lack of oxygen, from Chauvin's knee on his neck and that illegal drugs were not a factor.\n- Defense -\nDefense attorney Eric Nelson told the jury they needed to look at Chauvin's actions "from the perspective of a reasonable police officer."\n"He did not purposefully use unlawful force," Nelson said. "You have to take into account that officers are human beings capable of making mistakes."\nNelson put a retired police officer on the witness stand who testified that in his opinion Chauvin's use of force against Floyd was "justified."\nNelson also sought to persuade the jury that Floyd's death was caused by an enlarged heart, narrowed arteries and the drugs fentanyl and methamphetamine.\nA retired forensic pathologist put on the stand by the defense said Floyd died of cardiac arrest brought on by heart disease and the drugs.\nChauvin decided not to testify in his own defense and invoked his constitutional Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination.}}
{{In this frame from video people walk down the street after an explosion in Beirut, Tuesday, Aug. 4, 2020. A massive explosion shook Lebanon’s capital wounding a number people and causing widespread damage. (AP Photo)\nBEIRUT (AP) — A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. At least 50 people were killed and 2,700 injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.\nHours later, ambulances still carried away the wounded as army helicopters helped battle fires raging at the port.\nThe sudden devastation overwhelmed a country already struggling with both the coronavirus pandemic and an economic crisis: Beirut hospitals quickly filled beyond capacity, pleading for blood supplies and generators to keep their lights on.\nThe cause of the blast, which sparked fires, overturned cars and blew out windows and doors, was not immediately known.\nAbbas Ibrahim, chief of Lebanese General Security, said it might have been caused by highly explosive material that was confiscated from a ship some time ago and stored at the port. Local television channel LBC said the material was sodium nitrate.\nWitnesses reported seeing a strange orange-colored cloud over the site after the explosion. Orange clouds of toxic nitrogen dioxide gas often accompany an explosion involving nitrates.\nAn Israeli government official said Israel “had nothing to do” with the blast. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter with the media. Israeli officials usually do not comment on “foreign reports.”\nThe blast was stunning even for a city that has seen civil war, suicide bombings and bombardment by Israel. It could be heard and felt as far away as Cyprus, more than 200 kilometers (180 miles) across the Mediterranean.\n“It was a real horror show. I haven’t seen anything like that since the days of the (civil) war,” said Marwan Ramadan, who was about 500 meters (yards) from the port and was knocked off his feet by the force of the explosion.\nHealth Minister Hassan Hamad said the preliminary toll was at least 50 dead and 2,700 wounded. Emergency teams streamed in from across Lebanon to help, and the injured had to be taken to hospitals outside the capital. Hamad added that hospitals were barely coping and offers of aid were pouring in from Arab states and friends of Lebanon.\nSome of those injured lay on the ground at the port, Associated Press staff at the scene said. A civil defense official said there were still bodies inside the port, many under debris.\nBeirut’s governor, Marwan Abboud, broke into tears as he toured the site, saying, “Beirut is a devastated city.”\nInitially, video taken by residents showed a fire raging at the port, sending up a giant column of smoke, illuminated by flashes of what appear to be fireworks. Local TV stations reported that a fireworks warehouse was involved.\nThe fire then appeared to catch at a nearby building, triggering a more massive explosion, sending up a mushroom cloud and a shock wave.\nCharbel Haj, who works at the port, said it started as small explosions like firecrackers. Then, he said, he was thrown off his feet by the huge blast. His clothes were torn.\nMiles from the port, building facades were shredded, balconies were knocked down and windows shattered. Streets were covered with glass and bricks and lined with wrecked cars. Motorcyclists picked their way through traffic, carrying the injured.\nOne woman covered in blood from the waist up walked down a trashed street while talking furiously on her phone. On another street, a woman with a bloodied face looked distraught, staggering through traffic with two friends at her side.\n“This country is cursed,” a young man passing by muttered.\nThe blast came at a time when Lebanon’s economy is facing collapse from the financial crisis and the coronavirus restrictions. Many have lost jobs, while the worth of their savings has evaporated as the currency has plunged in value against the dollar. The result has thrown many into poverty.\nIt also occurred amid rising tensions between Israel and the militant Hezbollah group along Lebanon’s southern border.\nThe explosion was reminiscent of massive blasts during Lebanon’s civil war and took place only three days before a U.N.-backed tribunal was set to give its verdict in the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in a truck bombing more than 15 years ago. That explosion, with a ton of explosives, was felt miles away, just like Tuesday’s explosion.\nSeveral of Beirut’s hospitals were damaged in the blast. Roum Hospital put out a call for people to bring it spare generators to keep its electricity going as it evacuated patients because of heavy damage.\nOutside the St. George University Hospital in Beirut’s Achrafieh neighborhood, people with various injuries arrived in ambulances, in cars and on foot. The explosion had caused major damage inside the building and knocked out the electricity at the hospital. Dozens of injured were being treated on the spot on the street outside, on stretchers and wheelchairs.\n“This is a catastrophe we have on our hands,” said one doctor, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to make press statements.\n___\nAssociated Press writer Sarah El Deeb in Beirut and Josef Federman in Jerusalem contributed.}}
{{Hundreds of protesters gathered at 72nd and Dodge Streets Friday night in response to the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis, as similar protests were underway across the country.\nNebraska Gov. Pete Ricketts issued a statement condemning Floyd's death and said he was appalled and angry. He also condemned the destruction of property in both Lincoln and Omaha.\nOmaha Mayor Jean Stothert will hold a press conference today at 1 p.m. It will be broadcast live on both television and 6 News' Facebook page.\nThe protest began peacefully but later turned violent as law enforcement urged people to disperse. About 18 people were arrested in Omaha during the protests.\nSaturday morning the area of 72nd and Dodge Streets was marked with graffiti. Some businesses had broken windows.\nIowa Gov. Kim Reynolds and Des Moines Mayor Frank Cownie also condemned Floyd's death.\nIn a statement issued Saturday morning, Reynolds said “The unsettling and criminal act of violence that robbed George Floyd of his rights and his life was unconscionable and must be met with swift justice. As Iowans, it is right for us to react in different ways, from sadness to outrage. But it is never right to react with violence."\nCownie commented on protests in Des Moines and said "This was a difficult and challenging night for the City of Des Moines. What began as a peaceful rally for many escalated into needless violence on our streets. Fortunately, no one suffered serious injuries, however, as we’ve seen in the light of day there was damage to nearby businesses, cars and property."\nThis is a developing story. Stay with 6 News for updates.}}
{{A video shared on Facebook allegedly shows George Floyd, who died on May 25 in Minneapolis police custody, appearing on “Judge Judy” at age 16.\nVerdict: False\nWhile the “Judge Judy” defendant is named George Floyd, he is not the same George Floyd that died in May.\nFact Check:\nMultiple Facebook users shared the video with the claim that it shows George Floyd, whose death sparked protests against racism and police brutality, appearing as a defendant on “Judge Judy” as a teenager. “Judge Judy,” a popular reality courtroom show, first aired in 1996, according to IMDb.\n“This is the famous George Floyd appearing before Judge Judy when he was only 16,” reads the caption of one such Facebook video. “He is being sued by the girl whose car he stole and wrecked. Just listen to his rationale!” (RELATED: Did The Obama Foundation Tweet An Image Of George Floyd Before His Death?)\nIn the video, the teenaged defendant, identified as George Floyd IV, says he stole and then crashed the plaintiff’s car while fleeing Chicago police. The incident appears to be the same one described in a Dec. 7, 2009, article published by NBC 5 Chicago.\nBut the young man, George Floyd IV, is not the same man as the late 46-year-old George Perry Floyd Jr., who died in Minneapolis police custody in May. A spokesperson for “Judge Judy” told the Daily Caller in an email that the episode aired in 2010. Born in 1973, George Perry Floyd Jr. would have been about 36 at that time. The young man in the video would today be in his mid-to-late 20s.\nPhotos of George Perry Floyd Jr. as a teenager and as an adult show that he resembles neither the defendant nor the defendant’s father, who also has a similar name.}}
{{The Federal Reserve kept its loose monetary policy intact on Thursday and pledged again to do whatever it can in coming months to sustain a U.S. economic recovery threatened by a spreading coronavirus pandemic and facing uncertainty over a still-undecided presidential election. Results from Tuesday's vote were still being tabulated in a few key states, though Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden was near the minimum 270 votes in the state-by-state Electoral College needed to win the White House.\nThe policy statement released after the U.S. central bank's latest two-day meeting did not mention the election. In a news conference after the release of the statement, Fed Chair Jerome Powell said the U.S. economy is now recovering more slowly after being boosted earlier in the year by fiscal aid and the re-opening of some businesses.\n"The overall rebound in household spending owes in part to stimulus payments and expanded unemployment benefits, which provided essential support to many families and individuals," Powell told reporters. He also said the recent rise in coronavirus infections in the United States and abroad was "particularly concerning," and said social distancing and masks were needed to help contain the virus and support the economy.\n"A full economic recovery is unlikely until people are confident that it's safe to reengage in a broad range of activities," Powell said. In a statement virtually unchanged from the one issued at its September policy meeting, the Fed's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee repeated its pledge to use its "full range of tools" to support the economy, and promised not to consider raising interest rates until maximum employment had been restored and inflation was heading above its 2% target.\n"Economic activity and employment have continued to recover but remain well below their levels at the beginning of the year," it said in a unanimous statement which left the central bank's key overnight interest rate unchanged at near zero. "The COVID-19 pandemic is causing tremendous human and economic hardship across the United States and around the world." The Fed said it would for now continue buying "at least" $120 billion per month in government bonds and use its other tools and programs as needed depending on how the economy evolves.\nRISKS TO RECOVERY The U.S. employment report for October, due to be released by the Labor Department on Friday, will give the latest glimpse of how quickly the economy is pulling the millions unemployed by the pandemic back into jobs.\nBut beyond that the Fed will now be waiting to see whether Biden does indeed win the presidency or whether Republican President Donald Trump manages to remain in power, and what either scenario could mean in terms of additional government spending to help those out of work. "The risks to the economic recovery have increased since the Fed last met in September, with rising coronavirus cases, slower job growth, a lack of new stimulus for consumers and small businesses, and now an unresolved presidential election," Greg McBride, Bankrate.com's chief financial analyst, said in an email. "The Fed has done what they can do at this point, despite saying they have a range of tools still available."\nU.S. stocks, up sharply before the Fed's statement was released, showed little immediate response and remained higher on the day. Yields on U.S. Treasury debt securities were little changed, and the dollar remained softer on the day against a basket of major trading partners' currencies.}}
{{Live coverage: Travis Park demonstration for the death of George Floyd\nGeorge Floyd has been identified as the man who was killed Monday, May 25, in Minneapolis police custody. Family members say he was a gifted athlete and hip-hop artist from Houston’s Third ward. George Floyd has been identified as the man who was killed Monday, May 25, in Minneapolis police custody. Family members say he was a gifted athlete and hip-hop artist from Houston’s Third ward. Photo: Courtesy Of Roxie Washington Photo: Courtesy Of Roxie Washington Image 1 of / 1 Caption Close Live coverage: Travis Park demonstration for the death of George Floyd 1 / 1 Back to Gallery\nSan Antonio will join other cities in rallying for the arrest of the Minneapolis Police Department officers in connection to the death of George Floyd, an unarmed black man who died while in police custody on Monday.\nThe Autonomous Brown Berets De San Anto are planning a "peaceful gathering" at Travis Park on at 5 p.m. Saturday. The group will hold a vigil for Floyd, whose arrest was captured in a widely shared video showing now-former police officer Derek Chauvin kneeling on his neck.\nThe Express-News will report live from Travis Park. Follow the events here.\nRELATED: 'He did not deserve to die': Notable San Antonians react to George Floyd's death}}
{{George Floyd graduated from Jack Yates High School in 1993.\nHOUSTON — Jack Yates High School Class of 1993 held a vigil and walk for George Floyd Saturday morning at MacGregor Park.\nDozens gathered in the middle of the park -- on foot and on motorcycles -- to honor their classmate who died in Minneapolis when an officer, identified as Derek Chauvin, kneeled on his neck for nearly 11 minutes in an attempt to detain him.\nThose who attended wore Yates' school colors and shirts that read "I Can't Breathe," which are some of the last words Floyd said before he died.\nThose unable to walk followed along in their vehicles.\nOn Friday, hundreds gathered in downtown Houston to demand justice for Floyd. The rally started at 2 p.m. and went on for nearly 11 hours.\nNearly 200 people were arrested during the rally. Many of those will be charged with obstructing a roadway, according to the Houston Police Department.}}
{{Doris Rendell, who is Black, burst into tears as she was standing in front of a memorial set up at the site of Daunte Wright’s death. She says the Wright case and the Floyd case reminded her of her own negative interactions with police when she was young.\n“It’s terrible, it’s terrible to be black, to say that... It is. There’s so much racism out here, it’s pathetic ... It’s like there’s no justice in the world for us. It’s like we’re a piece of a bean in a pie just getting picked off, just no one cares.\nAfter the jury got the Chauvin case Monday, Judge Peter Cahill rejected a defense request for a mistrial based in part on comments from California Rep. Maxine Waters, who said “we’ve got to get more confrontational” if Chauvin isn’t convicted of murder.\nThe judge called her comments “abhorrent” and “disrespectful to the rule of law and to the judicial branch” and told Chauvin’s attorney that Waters “may have given you something on appeal that may result in this whole trial being overturned.”\nStill, two defense attorneys in Minnesota said they consider a successful appeal over remarks like Waters’ or Biden’s extremely unlikely.}}
{{Confident Biden edges ahead in US election\nPATIENT WAITING: Momentum moved to former US vice president Joe Biden, who said that ‘when the count is finished, we believe we will be the winners’\nAFP, WASHINGTON\nThe knife-edge US presidential race early yesterday tilted toward former US vice president Joe Biden, the Democratic candidate, with wins in Michigan and Wisconsin bringing him close to a majority, but US President Donald Trump claimed that he was being cheated, and went to court to try and stop vote counting.\nTallying of votes continued through a second night in the remaining battleground states, where huge turnout and a mountain of mail-in ballots sent by voters trying to avoid exposure to COVID-19 made the job all the more difficult.\nBoth candidates still had paths to winning the White House by accumulating the required threshold of 270 of the electoral votes awarded to whichever candidate wins the popular vote in a given state.\nDemonstrators hold signs during a march to “Count Every Vote, Protect Every Person” in Seattle, Washington, on Wednesday. Photo: AFP\nHowever, momentum moved to Biden, who made a televised speech from his hometown of Wilmington, Delaware, to say that “when the count is finished, we believe we will be the winners.”\nBy flipping the northern battlegrounds of Michigan and Wisconsin, and also winning formerly pro-Trump Arizona, Biden reached 264 electoral votes against 214 so far for Trump.\nTo reach 270, he was hoping next to add the six electoral votes from Nevada, where he had a small and shrinking lead, or, even better, the larger prizes of hard-fought Georgia or Pennsylvania.\nSupporters of US President Donald Trump bang on a partition and chant slogans outside a room where absentee ballots are being counted at the TCF Center in Detroit, Michigan, on Wednesday. Photo: AFP\nIn stark contrast with Trump’s unprecedented rhetoric about being cheated, Biden sought to project calm, reaching out to a nation torn by four years of polarizing leadership and traumatized by the COVID-19 pandemic — with new daily infections on Wednesday close to hitting 100,000 for the first time.\n“We have to stop treating our opponents as enemies,” Biden, 77, said. “What brings us together as Americans is so much stronger than anything that can tear us apart.”\nHowever, Trump, 74, claimed victory unilaterally and made clear that he would not accept the reported results, issuing unprecedented complaints of fraud.\nA currency dealer monitors exchange rates as a screen shows results of the US presidential elections in a trading room at KEB Hana Bank in Seoul yesterday. Photo: AFP\n“The damage has already been done to the integrity of our system, and to the presidential election itself,” he wrote on Twitter, alleging that “secretly dumped ballots” had been added in Michigan.\nTrump’s campaign announced lawsuits in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Georgia and demanded a recount in Wisconsin.\nTension also shifted to the streets, even if so far there has not been the kind of unrest that some feared just ahead of the election, prompting businesses in several major city centers to board up windows.\nIn Detroit, Michigan, a Democratic stronghold that is majority black, a crowd of mostly white Trump supporters chanted: “Stop the count,” and tried to barge into an election office before being blocked by security.\nUS news networks showed an aggressive pro-Trump crowd also gathering outside a vote counting office in the important Arizona county of Maricopa, which includes Phoenix.\nBurly law enforcement officers formed a protective line at the facility’s doors.\nSome of the protesters openly carried firearms, which is legal in the state, while people chanted: “Count the votes.”\nJust before midnight, Maricopa authorities posted new vote totals, with Trump slashing Biden’s Arizona vote lead from 79,000 to fewer than 69,000, a gap of 2.4 percent with 86 percent of precincts reporting.\nGeorgia’s largest county of Fulton, which includes parts of Atlanta, was processing ballots through the night.\nOver a 90-minute period, Biden narrowed Trump’s lead there from 29,000 votes to 23,000, with 95 percent of precincts reporting.\nThe tight nature of Georgia’s race — Biden trails Trump by half a percent — raises the prospect of a recount.\nThe US election — usually touted as an example to newer democracies around the world — brought statements of international concern, with German Minister of Defense Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer warning of a “very explosive situation.”\nAn observer mission from the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, which monitors votes throughout the West and in the former Soviet Union, found no evidence of election fraud and said that Trump’s “baseless allegations” eroded trust in democracy.\nUnless Biden racks up a winning score earlier, the whole contest could eventually wind up being decided by the winner of Pennsylvania, where Trump’s initially big lead dwindled rapidly.\nThe state is a major target for Trump campaign lawyers, who have already challenged its rule on allowing mailed-in ballots received after election day to be counted in the US Supreme Court.\nPennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf, a Democrat, said that everyone should be “patient” and promised that all votes would be “counted fully.”\nThe tight White House race and recriminations evoked memories of the 2000 election between the Republican candidate, former Texas governor George W. Bush, and the Democratic candidate, former US vice president Al Gore.\nThat race, which hinged on a handful of votes in Florida, eventually ended up in the Supreme Court, which halted a recount while Bush was ahead.\nThe US Elections Project estimated that voter turnout would reach a record 160 million, including more than 101.1 million early voters.}}
{{The jury has reached a verdict at the murder trial of former Minneapolis police Officer Derek Chauvin in the death of George Floyd. The verdict is to be read late Tuesday afternoon.\nFloyd died last May after Chauvin, a white officer, pinned his knee on the 46-year-old Black man’s neck for about 9 1/2 minutes in a case that triggered worldwide protests, violence and a furious reexamination of racism and policing in the U.S.\nThe jury deliberated over parts of two days in a city on edge against another outbreak of unrest.}}
{{Billie Eilish penned a lengthy essay Saturday that supported Black Lives Matter, touched on white privilege and demanded justice for George Floyd.\n“I’ve been trying to take this week to figure out a way to address this delicately,” the singer prefaced. “I have an enourmous [sic] platform and I try really hard to be respectful and take time to think through what I say and how I say it…But holy fucking shit I’m gonna just start talking.”\nEilish continued, “If I hear one more person say ‘aLL liVeS maTtEr’ one more fucking time I’m gonna lose my fucking mind. Will you shut the fuck uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuup???? No one is saying your life doesn’t matter. No one is saying your life is not hard.”\nOn Friday night, demonstrations protesting the death of Floyd were organized in dozens of cities across the nation, with some escalating into riots; in her statement Saturday, Eilish also subtly criticized President Donald Trump for calling the protestors “thugs,” as well as his support of armed groups seeking to reopen states amid the coronavirus pandemic.\n“If all lives matter why are black people killed for just being black? Why are immigrants persecuted? Why are white people given opportunities that people of other races aren’t? Why is it okay for white people to protest literally being asked to stay at home while carrying semi-automatic weapons? Why is it okay for black people to be called thugs for protesting the murder of innocent people?” she wrote. “Do you know why???? White. Fucking. Privilege.”\nEIlish wrote in conclusion, “The slogan #BlackLivesMatter does not mean other lives don’t. It’s calling attention to the fact that society clearly thinks black lives don’t fucking matter!!!!! And they fucking do!!!!!”\nRead Eilish’s full post below:}}
{{More protests are scheduled for Saturday after a night of violence as protesters marched through the streets of Chicago overnight demanding justice for George Floyd. Floyd died in police custody in Minneapolis on Memorial Day.\nHundreds of protesters could be heard chanting “I can’t breathe,” the same words also said by Floyd just moments before he died.\nCrews were working Saturday morning to clean up the mess downtown. Several stores on State Street and Wabash Avenue were damaged overnight with protesters breaking the glass windows. Protesters marched along State Street smashing windows to stores like Target, Macy’s Champs, Old Navy and a nearby Dunkin Donuts. On Wabash several stores including Windy City Diamonds were also hit.\nSeveral windows smashed out on Jewelers Row during overnight protest. @cbschicago pic.twitter.com/i9lPOtVQoP — Vi Nguyen (@ViNguyen) May 30, 2020\nPolice have not said if anything was stolen from these stores.\nOfficers lined the streets and tried to move the crowd, telling everyone to back up.\nOfficers trying to get protestors to move back. @cbschicago pic.twitter.com/D0bSGgXXKx — Vi Nguyen (@ViNguyen) May 30, 2020\nAs the night wore on, the protests got more tense. Some of the protesters who remained at 1 a.m. began tipping trash cans. CBS 2’s Marissa Parra heard what sounded like bottles getting smashed and heated confrontations.\nSeveral Chicago police cars damaged overnight near Robert Morris College. The windows smashed out. @cbschicago pic.twitter.com/3nLP9z6mn9 — Vi Nguyen (@ViNguyen) May 30, 2020\nChicago police say more than 100 people were arrested and several officers were injured during the protest. One officer suffered a broken wrist. About a dozen police vehicles across the city were also damaged.\nSaturday morning Mayor Lori Lightfoot said she understands the anger and the city’s history with Laquan McDonald but asks for peaceful protests.\nThe day after #GeorgeFloyd protests in Chicago and hours after several downtown businesses were broken into overnight, Mayor Lightfoot is urging: – peaceful protest\n– social distancing where possible “COVID isn’t gone… wear your mask”@cbschicago pic.twitter.com/nydAdcT7XB — Marissa Parra (@MarParNews) May 30, 2020\n“We must do it in a way that is also respectful of the people and their property,” she said. “We have a long history of bold, peaceful protests in Chicago.”\nThe mayor also urged social distancing when possible.\n“COVID isn’t gone. Wear your mask,” she said.\nChicago Police Department Supt. David Brown said Saturday that he believes the department struck the right tone between allowing demonstrations and acting swiftly when protesters got violent.\n“We believe in the first amendment right to assemble and protest, but we also believe that this is a nation of laws and lawlessness has no place in this country,” he said.\nBrown also spoke against the actions of police in Minneapolis, separating his department from that department.}}
{{Aware that the Democratic-led House would not support such a challenge and that it would put most of his fellow GOP senators in a bind, McConnell told them on a private call Dec. 15 that it would be a “terrible vote” to have to take. That’s according to two people who were not authorized to publicly discuss the private call and spoke on condition of anonymity.}}
{{A BRITISH journalist has told how victims died in front of him after a killer blast levelled Beirut shredding his own apartment in the city.\nHere, Owen Holdaway relives the horror moment the explosion devastated the Lebanese capital leaving 135 dead and bloody scenes of death and destruction.\n⚠️ Read our Beirut live blog for the latest news & updates\nOwen Holdaway has covered stories all over the Middle East\n9 He was jogging in the port area just before the blast happened Credit: EPA\nThe deadly blast in Beirut has rocked this city in more ways than one and left me riding a rollercoaster of emotions.\nMost devastating is the dreadful loss of life and the horrific injuries so many suffered in the explosion at the city's port.\nOn a personal note, my own flat was among thousands of homes which were destroyed in the horrific tragedy.\nBut it could have been a lot, lot worse for this journalist.\nThe drama all started at 6pm on Tuesday evening just as I had returned from a run around the port - right where the explosion happened.\n9 The blast tore through the Lebanese capital on Tuesday evening Credit: AFP or licensors\n9 Owen watched as the injured staggered to local hospitals for help Credit: AFP or licensors\nAs I sat down at my computer to start to work I heard a small bang.\nAs I got up to see what was going on...suddenly BOOM the next explosion hit.\nAt that moment my balcony windows were shattered, my cupboards were blown off the wall and I was knocked off my feet.\nMy initial thought was that it must have been a bomb.\nHowever, as a journalist, I knew I had to head to find out exactly what had happened.\nDespite the obvious threat, I grabbed my phone, ran outside and started to film the immediate aftermath of the blast.\nIt's a dangerous habit I picked up while working on the frontline in war-torn Mosul, Iraq.\nWhat is known so far:\nAt least 135 people were killed and 5,000 injured in the explosion\n300,000 left homeless after blast caused nearly £4bn of damage\nBoris Johnson has drafted in the Royal Navy to help rebuild Beirut\nBrit wounded in the blast feared he had been blinded by flying debris\nDonald Trump now admits explosion could be accident after all\nShocking before and after satellite pics show disaster ground zero\nHowever, it has served me well and in the past I have managed to capture incredible footage including ISIS sniper attacks for the Sun Online.\nAnd on Tuesday it was clear to see the city was also looking very battle scarred.\nI also realised I need to file some copy and that would mean finding somewhere with internet still up and running.\nThen I remembered a bar on the corner and hoped its routers would still be working.\nI quickly checked and scanned for the network. Yes, it came up and I automatically logged on.\nImmediately I was hit with a barrage of messages.\n9 More than 5,000 were injured in the shocking explosion Credit: AFP or licensors\n9 Owen said medical staff were overwhelmed by patients Credit: EPA\nSome were from friends asking if I was okay but most were from editors seeing what I could provide.\nI quickly filed a few videos and then told them I was near Geitawi Hospital where some of the injured were being taken.\nWhen I arrived, I was greeted by scenes of complete pandemonium.\nThe dozen or so staff were attempting their best, but were completely overwhelmed.\nIn one of the rooms I witnessed a doctor giving CPR to a middle-aged man in vain.\nI stood there transfixed as he passed away in front of my eyes.\nAfter filming people looking like zombies from the Walking Dead I headed back to the bar to work.\nI repeated this routine - to and from the hospital - before finally calling it at night at 3:30am.\nThe next morning, my alarm went off at 7am and then I was sent to the port to cover ground zero.\nI jumped in an Uber and headed there but the traffic was terrible and the streets were full of destruction.\nThere were army checkpoints everywhere and in the end I decided to get out of the taxi and run through the scorching heat to meet up with my cameraman.\n9 Rescuers pluck a survivor from the rubble of a collapsed building Credit: AP:Associated Press\n9 More than 300,000 have been left homeless in the wake of the tragedy Credit: AP:Associated Press\nA young girl in her 20s then approached me and I asked if she was okay\n"No, No I cannot find my friends. I have been searching for them" she mumbled.\nShe had been looking since the early hours for some of her childhood friends who had gone down to the port as first responders.\nMy cameraman began to film as I asked her questions.\n"They only found their helmets…" she said before breaking down in front of me.\nMost read in News WORMS FEARS Has your child got threadworms? Here's the symptoms - and how cure them GREAT DEFENDERS We test suncreams for the heatwave - so is a £3 one as good as a £30 one? TO CATCH A CHEAT Furious wife beats and strips her husband's suspected mistress in the street - but crowd does nothing ‘WE LIVE ON AIR’ 'Breatharian' couple claim they have barely eaten for NINE YEARS Hard Luck A deadly breed of spider which gives bite victims painful ERECTIONS is in the UK Filming fun Where was hit comedy RTE series The Young Offenders filmed?\nLosing my journalistic composure, I gave her a hug as she sobbed on my shoulder.\nI finished up my last report at 3am and then got set to crash for the evening. I was exhausted, but just could not sleep.\nI opened up my laptop and began to write, it was helping me process, process the events, the events of the past two days.}}
{{London: Boiling tensions over last week's catastrophic explosion in Beirut have triggered the collapse of Lebanon's government and paved the way for potential elections in the crisis-plagued country.\nAnnouncing the resignation of the entire cabinet, Hassan Diab — who took over as Prime Minister in January — blamed decades of "systemic corruption" for Tuesday's deadly blast and said he supported demands by the Lebanese people "to hold accountable those responsible".\nA drone picture shows a huge crater caused by the explosion in Beirut. Credit:AP\nBut an angry Diab also sought to distance himself from the fallout by lashing out at Lebanon's "elite" for taking the country "to the edge of being broken".\n"This disaster which has hit the Lebanese at the core occurred as a result of chronic corruption in politics, administration and the state," he said in an address to the nation.}}
{{The jury has reached a verdict for Derek Chauvin, the former Minneapolis Police Department officer on trial for murder charges over the killing George Floyd in May 2020.\nThe jurors will announce their decision between 3:30 and 4:00 pm central time. Chauvin was indicted on three counts related to Floyd’s death, which sparked protests around the country against police brutality.\nChauvin has been charged with second-degree unintentional murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.\nThe prosecution has been trying to convince the jury that what Chauvin did to Floyd amounted to murder, calling in police and medical professionals to testify that Chauvin assaulted Floyd with an unauthorized restraint that killed him while showing reckless disregard for his victim’s life.\n“What the defendant did here was a straight-up felony assault, this was not policing,” Prosecutor Steve Schleicher said in his closing argument. “It was unnecessary, it was gratuitous, it was disproportionate.”\nThe defense has sought to sow doubt, highlighting Floyd’s history of drug use and trying to make the case that he may have died of other causes.\nOn Friday, Chauvin declined to testify on his own behalf under his Fifth Amendment rights.\nThe city of Minneapolis has braced for civil unrest, depending on the verdict. The police killing of Daunte Wright in nearby Brooklyn Center has already elevated tensions.}}
{{Tel Aviv, Jan. 8, 2020 Israeli President Reuven Rivlin on Thursday congratulated U.S President-elect Joe Biden on the verification of his election victory at Congress and condemned violence in Washington.\n“Let me send congratulations to President-elect Biden for the verification of the election results by the U.S. Congress.\n“I am confident that President-elect Biden will continue to strengthen the relationship between us and the U.S. of America, our closest friend and the greatest democracy in the world,” Rivlin said in a statement.\nThe Israeli president also described the Wednesday riot at the U.S. Capitol building as shocking and said that the democracy “should not be taken for granted.”\nHundreds of supporters of U.S. President Donald Trump broke into the Capitol building on Wednesday and reached the Senate chamber while the verification of Biden’s electoral college victory was underway, sending lawmakers into hiding.\nThey voted to certify his win after police cleared Congress of protesters.\nLike this: Like Loading...}}
{{Aside from psychological scrutiny, the suitability of would-be officers should include an examination of their compliance with laws and regulations, feelings about interacting with races other than their own, self-perceived weaknesses, and, last but not least, their reasons for wanting to work in law enforcement.}}
{{TEL AVIV (REUTERS) - The red, white and cedar green of the Lebanese flag were lit up over a Tel Aviv square on Wednesday (Aug 5) in a rare show of Israeli solidarity with Beirut as it reels from a devastating explosion.\nIsrael has been in a technical state of war with Lebanon for generations, and it deems the country's armed Shi'ite Muslim group Hezbollah, backed by Iran, the biggest threat across its northern border.\nIsrael and Hezbollah fought a month-long war in 2006 and have traded fire again in recent weeks.\nBut, arguing that "humanity comes before any conflict", Tel Aviv Mayor Ron Huldai ordered City Hall on Rabin Square, named for the late Israeli prime minister Yitzhak Rabin, to be illuminated with the Lebanese flag on Wednesday evening.\n"Our hearts are with the Lebanese people following this terrible tragedy," Huldai wrote on Twitter.\nAt nightfall, windows on the 13-storey building's facade were filled with light in the design of Lebanon's flag: two horizontal red stripes enveloping a wider band of white, with a large green cedar tree - Lebanon's national symbol - at the centre.\nThe decision drew criticism from some Israelis, including Cabinet minister Rafael Peretz, who on Twitter likened it to "raising (an) enemy state's flag in the heart of Tel Aviv".\nPrime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel had offered aid to Lebanon after the massive warehouse explosion in the port district of the capital Beirut on Tuesday that killed at least 135 people and injured over 5,000.\nLebanon has not responded to the overture, according to an Israeli defence official, who suggested that Israel with UN support could "set up and operate field hospitals on our side of the border and admit casualties from Lebanon"\nRelated Story Israel offers bitter rival Lebanon aid after blast\nIn the Israeli-occupied West Bank, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas declared Wednesday a day of mourning and ordered Palestinian flags in the territory lowered to half mast in solidarity with Lebanon.}}
{{IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP) -- President Trump received more than 70% of the votes cast on Election Day in Iowa, easily overcoming Joe Biden's substantial lead among those who voted early.\nUnofficial results show Trump captured Iowa's six electoral votes by winning more than 53% of the vote, defeating Joe Biden by about 138,700 votes.\nA record number of people voted early in person and through the mail. Those voters heavily favored Biden.\nTrump entered Election Day facing a deficit of 161,000 votes but ended up picking up about 300,000. Only 704,000 votes were cast at polling places Tuesday, a 230,000 decrease from 2016 as voters embraced other voting options.}}
{{By BASSEM MROUE | Associated Press\nBEIRUT — A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. At least 50 people were killed and 2,700 injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.\nHours later, ambulances still carried away the wounded as army helicopters helped battle fires raging at the port.\nThe sudden devastation overwhelmed a country already struggling with both the coronavirus pandemic and an economic crisis: Beirut hospitals quickly filled beyond capacity, pleading for blood supplies and generators to keep their lights on.\nThe cause of the blast, which sparked fires, overturned cars and blew out windows and doors, was not immediately known.\nAbbas Ibrahim, chief of Lebanese General Security, said it might have been caused by highly explosive material that was confiscated from a ship some time ago and stored at the port. Local television channel LBC said the material was sodium nitrate.\nWitnesses reported seeing a strange orange-colored cloud over the site after the explosion. Orange clouds of toxic nitrogen dioxide gas often accompany an explosion involving nitrates.\nAn Israeli government official said Israel “had nothing to do” with the blast. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter with the media. Israeli officials usually do not comment on “foreign reports.”\nThe blast was stunning even for a city that has seen civil war, suicide bombings and bombardment by Israel. It could be heard and felt as far away as Cyprus, more than 200 kilometers (180 miles) across the Mediterranean.\n“It was a real horror show. I haven’t seen anything like that since the days of the (civil) war,” said Marwan Ramadan, who was about 500 meters (yards) from the port and was knocked off his feet by the force of the explosion.\nHealth Minister Hassan Hamad said the preliminary toll was at least 50 dead and 2,700 wounded. Emergency teams streamed in from across Lebanon to help, and the injured had to be taken to hospitals outside the capital. Hamad added that hospitals were barely coping and offers of aid were pouring in from Arab states and friends of Lebanon.\nSome of those injured lay on the ground at the port, Associated Press staff at the scene said. A civil defense official said there were still bodies inside the port, many under debris.\nBeirut’s governor, Marwan Abboud, broke into tears as he toured the site, saying, “Beirut is a devastated city.”\nInitially, video taken by residents showed a fire raging at the port, sending up a giant column of smoke, illuminated by flashes of what appear to be fireworks. Local TV stations reported that a fireworks warehouse was involved.\nThe fire then appeared to catch at a nearby building, triggering a more massive explosion, sending up a mushroom cloud and a shock wave.\nCharbel Haj, who works at the port, said it started as small explosions like firecrackers. Then, he said, he was thrown off his feet by the huge blast. His clothes were torn.\nMiles from the port, building facades were shredded, balconies were knocked down and windows shattered. Streets were covered with glass and bricks and lined with wrecked cars. Motorcyclists picked their way through traffic, carrying the injured.\nOne woman covered in blood from the waist up walked down a trashed street while talking furiously on her phone. On another street, a woman with a bloodied face looked distraught, staggering through traffic with two friends at her side.\n“This country is cursed,” a young man passing by muttered.\nThe blast came at a time when Lebanon’s economy is facing collapse from the financial crisis and the coronavirus restrictions. Many have lost jobs, while the worth of their savings has evaporated as the currency has plunged in value against the dollar. The result has thrown many into poverty.\nIt also occurred amid rising tensions between Israel and the militant Hezbollah group along Lebanon’s southern border.\nThe explosion was reminiscent of massive blasts during Lebanon’s civil war and took place only three days before a U.N.-backed tribunal was set to give its verdict in the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in a truck bombing more than 15 years ago. That explosion, with a ton of explosives, was felt miles away, just like Tuesday’s explosion.\nSeveral of Beirut’s hospitals were damaged in the blast. Roum Hospital put out a call for people to bring it spare generators to keep its electricity going as it evacuated patients because of heavy damage.\nOutside the St. George University Hospital in Beirut’s Achrafieh neighborhood, people with various injuries arrived in ambulances, in cars and on foot. The explosion had caused major damage inside the building and knocked out the electricity at the hospital. Dozens of injured were being treated on the spot on the street outside, on stretchers and wheelchairs.\n“This is a catastrophe we have on our hands,” said one doctor, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to make press statements.\nAssociated Press writer Sarah El Deeb in Beirut and Josef Federman in Jerusalem contributed.}}
{{Image copyright Reuters\nFormer vice-president Joe Biden will not travel to the Democratic convention in Wisconsin to accept the party's presidential nomination, due to the coronavirus pandemic.\nMr Biden will instead accept via a national address in Delaware, his home state.\nThe convention had been planned for 17 to 20 August in Milwaukee, but will now be almost entirely virtual.\nMr Biden will face Donald Trump in the US presidential election on 3 November.\nPresident Trump said he would "probably" give his Republican presidential nomination speech live from the White House later this month.\nThe Democratic National Committee (DNC) said decisions about Mr Biden's speech were made in order to protect the local community in Milwaukee, and the people involved in setting up the convention.\n"From the very beginning of this pandemic, we put the health and safety of the American people first," said DNC chairman Tom Perez.\nLocal Wisconsin officials are still expected to deliver speeches at the convention centre, but high-profile Democrats including Barack and Michelle Obama are expected to appear via video link.\nMedia playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Joe Biden: 'Why the hell would I take a cognitive test?'\nPresident Trump has been far more reluctant to move his convention online.\nHe initially planned to hold the event in North Carolina but switched to Florida because of coronavirus restrictions. Florida was then scrapped due to a surge in Covid-19 cases. The event, shortened to half a day, will now be held on 24 August in the city of Charlotte.\nSpeaking on Fox News on Wednesday, the president insisted that the coronavirus outbreak "will go away like things go away".\nMedia playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The lost six weeks when the US failed to control the virus\nDespite Mr Trump demanding that schools reopen fully, it has been announced that public school students in Chicago will begin the academic year remotely in September.\nMore than 157,000 people have lost their lives to coronavirus in the US - by far the highest death toll in the world - and deaths have been averaging more than 1,000 a day in recent weeks.}}
{{A man inspects the damage to a car in Beirut following the explosion. Photo by Ahmad Terro/UPI | License Photo\nThe cause of the explosion is suspected to be the improper storage of ammonium nitrate. Photo by Ahmad Terro/UPI | License Photo\nRescuers worked through the night after two enormous explosions ripped through Beirut's port on Tuesday, killing at least 100 people and injuring thousands. Photo by Ahmad Terro/UPI | License Photo\nA destroyed silo is seen Wednesday amid the rubble and debris aftermath of a massive explosion in Beirut, Lebanon. Photo by Ahmad Terro/UPI | License Photo\nAug. 5 (UPI) -- Authorities in Beirut have increased the death count from the devastating explosions on Tuesday to at least 135, while one official said Wednesday it could cost Lebanon's capital as much as $5 billion to recover.\nLebanese President Michel Aoun called for an emergency Cabinet meeting and asked for a two-week state of emergency.\nAdvertisement\nBeirut Gov. Marwan Abboud said about 300,000 were homeless after the blasts and estimated repair costs in the billions. Lebanese Red Cross workers searched abandoned neighborhoods on Wednesday, reporting more than 5,000 injured.\nAbboud told local media that damages could range from $3 billion to $5 billion, or "maybe more." The death toll was in the dozens on Tuesday and had risen to triple digits on Wednesday, the Red Cross said.\nOfficials said they expect the toll to rise as they dig through the debris.\nAuthorities believe an initial explosion occurred at a warehouse near Beirut's port and ignited a fire, followed by multiple smaller explosions and, finally, a massive blast that caused the most damage. They said stored ammonium nitrate in the area was the likely source.\nSeismologists said the biggest explosion was equivalent to a 3.3-magnitude earthquake.\nLebanese Prime Minister Hassan Diab, declaring Wednesday a national day of mourning, has vowed to investigate the explosions and said anyone who may have facilitated them will be held accountable.\nDiab said it has long been known that storing ammonium nitrate at the location was a hazard.\nThe accident could not have come at a worse time for Lebanon, which has been fighting to overcome a major economic crisis because of the devaluation of its currency. Officials said silos that held about 85% of Lebanon's grain were destroyed in the blasts.\nRaoul Nehme, Lebanon's economy minister, said seven employees at the port's granaries are missing and that Lebanon now has less than a month's worth of grain reserves.\nAt least two Instagram accounts were established for those looking for loved ones in Beirut. One of the accounts also is posting lists of people admitted to various hospitals in the city, to help people find family members.\nThe World Health Organization said it's sending 23 tons of aid from its warehouse in Dubai, including medical trauma kits carrying syringes, bandages and gauze.\nGermany has sent a team that includes dozens of search and rescue experts to aid with finding survivors and victims. France, Qatar, Iraq and Kuwait are said they are also sending supplies.}}
{{On May 25, George Floyd, a black man in Minneapolis, Minnesota, died during his arrest by a white police officer. Former Minneapolis cop, Derek Chauvin, was filmed pinning Floyd to the ground by kneeling on his neck for nearly nine minutes, even after the 49-year-old truck driver was unconscious. On Friday, May 29, Chauvin was charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter. The three other officers involved have been fired, but not arrested or charged.\nThe videos from the scene are heartbreaking and angering, leading to Black Lives Matter protests around the nation. From Minneapolis to Atlanta, New York to Los Angeles, protestors are coming out in droves to show their solidarity for Floyd and express their rage that another person of color has been killed at the hands of those sworn to protect all citizens. If you're not quite ready to join them in person amid the coronavirus pandemic, there are still ways you can help demand justice and change right from home.\nLend Your Voice to Petitions\nScroll to continue with content Ad\nSign the Petition, Justice for George Floyd on change.org\nThe official petition for Justice for George Floyd—the largest petition in Change.org history according to the site's rep—already has more than 7.5 million signatures, but could always use one more. The petition is aimed at getting the attention of Mayor Jacob Frey and DA Mike Freeman to "beg to have the officers involved in this disgusting situation fired and for charges to be filed immediately."\nDonate to Causes You Care About\nRead and Donate to Campaign Zero\nCampaign Zero is an advocacy group for "policy solutions to end police violence in America." On the website, visitors can read up on the police laws in each state, as well as find and contact their own representatives at the state and national levels to demand change. The website is a non-profit and is also accepting donations so it can continue to keep people informed.\nStory continues\nDonate to the Official George Floyd Memorial Fund on gofundme.com\nGeorge's brother, Philonise Floyd, created the official GoFundMe campaign to cover Floyd's funeral burial expenses, along with mental and grief counseling, lodging, and travel for the family. A portion of the fund will also go to the Estate of George Floyd for "the benefit and care of his children and their educational fund." To date, the fund has amassed more than $3.3 million from more than 136,000 individual donors.\nDonate to The NAACP Legal Defense Fund\nThe NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund is "America’s premier legal organization fighting for racial justice." The group works to seek "structural changes to expand democracy, eliminate disparities, and achieve racial justice in a society that fulfills the promise of equality for all Americans." It's currently asking for donations to continue the expensive process of litigation to "defend our civil and human rights."\nDonate to Black Lives Matter\nBlack Lives Matter, founded in 2013, is an organization whose mission is "to eradicate white supremacy and build local power to intervene in violence inflicted on Black communities by the state and vigilantes." Donations go toward continuing its mission as well as its arts and culture programming.\nDonate to the Minnesota Freedom Fund\nThe Minnesota Freedom Fund is an organization that assists those arrested in paying jail bonds. As its donations page states, "Every dollar of financial donations to Minnesota Freedom Fund helps us help free people."\nReach Out to Your Political Representatives\nDemand change from local, state, and national leaders by reaching out and making your voice heard. The U.S. Government provides a public database of all the contact information you may need to connect with your political representatives here. Websites like Common Cause also help users find their representatives, along with contact information and even the bills specific politicians have introduced, committees they serve on, and political contributions they’ve received.\nBecome a Better Ally by Reading, Listening, and Learning\nBecoming a better ally to people of color begins with educating yourself. Sometimes, the best thing you can do is simply read. There are a few excellent places to start including Sojourners, which has an in-depth guide for white people to learn how to listen and support others. You can also read Glamour's guide to becoming a better ally.\nSupport Protestors Where You Can\nIf you do not feel safe or well enough to protest, there are still ways to support those who do. Check out websites like Showing Up for Racial Justice, which comes with a map of all affiliated groups around the nation. Click the one closest to you and reach out to see if you can donate money or goods to support the cause. And, if you do choose to protest in-person make sure to wear a mask to protect yourself and others from the spread of COVID-19 and listen to all instructions from group leaders and officials.\nOriginally Appeared on Glamour}}
{{McConnell says Trump ‘fed lies’ to mob about Biden election\nThe Republican leader vowed a 'safe and successful' inauguration of Biden on Wednesday at the Capitol\nLoading the player...\nSenate Republican leader Mitch McConnell opened the Senate on Tuesday saying the pro-Trump mob that stormed the Capitol was “fed lies” by the president and others in the deadly riot to overturn Democrat Joe Biden election.\nMcConnell’s remarks are his most severe and public rebuke of outgoing President Donald Trump. The Republican leader vowed a “safe and successful” inauguration of Biden on Wednesday at the Capitol, which is under extremely tight security.\nRead More: Don Lemon: Trump used race to divide us from the very beginning\n“The mob was fed lies,” McConnell said. “They were provoked by the president and other powerful people, and they tried to use fear and violence to stop a specific proceeding of branch of the federal government.”\nMcConnell said after Biden’s inauguration on the Capitol’s West Front — what he noted former President George H.W. Bush has called “democracy’s front porch” — “We’ll move forward.”\nTrump’s last full day in office Tuesday is also senators’ first day back since the deadly Capitol siege, an unparalleled time of transition as the Senate presses ahead to his impeachment trial and starts confirmation hearings on President-elect Joe Biden’s Cabinet.\nIn this Tuesday, Dec. 15, 2020, file photo, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, of Kentucky, speaks during a news conference with other Senate Republicans on Capitol Hill in Washington, while Sen. John Barrasso, R-Wyoming, listens at left. (Nicholas Kamm/Pool Photo via AP, File)\nThree new Democratic senators-elect are set to be sworn into office Wednesday shortly after Biden’s inauguration at the Capitol, which is under extreme security since the bloody pro-Trump riot. The new senators’ arrival will give the Democrats the most slim majority, a 50-50 divided Senate chamber, with the new vice president, Kamala Harris, swearing them in and serving as an eventual tie-breaking vote.\nMcConnell and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer are set to confer Tuesday about the arrangements ahead, according to a person familiar with the planning and granted anonymity to discuss it.\nThe start of the new session of Congress will force senators to come to terms with the post-Trump era, a transfer of power like almost none other in the nation’s history. Senators are returning to a Capitol shattered from the riot, but also a Senate ground to a halt by the lawmakers’ own extreme partisanship.\nRepublican senators, in particular, face a daunting choice of whether to convict Trump of inciting the insurrection, the first impeachment trial of a president no longer in office, in a break with the defeated president who continues to hold great sway over the party but whose future is uncertain. Senators are also being asked to start confirming Biden’s Cabinet nominees and consider passage of a sweeping new $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief bill.\nSenate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) speaks during a press conference on Capitol Hill on June 30, 2020 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Stefani Reynolds/Getty Images)\nIn opening remarks at his confirmation hearing, Biden’s nominee for secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Alejandro Mayorkas, vowed to get to the bottom of the “horrifying” attack on the Capitol.\nMayorkas told the Senate Homeland Security Committee that if confirmed he would do everything possible to ensure “the desecration of the building that stands as one of the three pillars of our democracy, and the terror felt by you, your colleagues, staff, and everyone present, will not happen again.”\nFive of Biden’s nominees are set for hearings Tuesday as the Senate prepares for swift confirmation of some as soon as the president-elect takes office, as is often done on Inauguration Day, particularly for the White House’s national security team.\nBiden wants the Senate to toggle between confirming his nominees, considering COVID relief and holding Trump accountable with the impeachment trial, a tall order for an institution that typically runs more slowly and with bitter confrontations.\nPro-Trump protesters gather in front of the U.S. Capitol Building on Jan. 6, a mob that eventually stormed the Capitol, breaking windows and clashing with police officers, killine one. (Photo by Jon Cherry/Getty Images)\nTrump’s impeachment is forcing Republican senators to re-evaluate their relationship with the outgoing president who is charged with inciting a mob of supporters to storm the Capitol as Congress was counting the Electoral College votes to confirm Biden’s election. A protester died during the riot and a police officer died later of injuries; three other people involved died of medical emergencies.\nThe House impeached Trump last week on a sole charge, incitement of insurrection, making him the only president to be twice impeached. He had been impeached in 2019 over relations with Ukraine and was acquitted in 2020 by the Senate.\nSchumer, who is poised to become the majority leader, and McConnell are set to meet Tuesday to discuss the power-sharing agreement and schedule ahead — for Trump’s trial, confirming Biden’s nominees and consideration of the incoming president’s $1.9 trillion COVID relief package.\nRead More: Biden outlines ‘Day One’ agenda of executive actions\nThree Democratic senators, Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff of Georgia, and Alex Padilla of California, are to be sworn into office Wednesday, according to the person granted anonymity to discuss planning.\nWarnock and Ossoff defeated Republican incumbents in this month’s runoff elections. Georgia’s secretary of state is expected to certify the election results Tuesday. Padilla was tapped by California’s governor to fill the remainder of Harris’ Senate term.\nThe Senate leaders also must negotiate a power-sharing agreement for the Senate that was last split so narrowly nearly 20 years ago, as they divvy up committee assignments and other resources.\nHave you subscribed to theGrio’s new podcast “Dear Culture”? Download our newest episodes now!\nTheGrio is now on Apple TV, Amazon Fire, and Roku. Download theGrio today!\nLoading the player...\nShare}}
{{Earth moving equipment and rescue workers search for victims,Monday, Aug. 10, 2020, in Beirut, Lebanon, near the site of last week’s explosion that hit the city’s seaport. World leaders and international organizations pledged nearly $300 million in emergency humanitarian aid to Beirut in the wake of the devastating explosion, but warned on Sunday that no money for rebuilding the capital will be made available until Lebanese authorities commit themselves to the political and economic reforms demanded by the people. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nBEIRUT (AP) — Lebanon’s prime minister stepped down from his job Monday in the wake of the catastrophic explosion in Beirut that has triggered public outrage, saying he has come to the conclusion that corruption in the country is “bigger than the state.”\nThe move risks opening the way to dragged-out negotiations over a new Cabinet amid urgent calls for reform. It follows a weekend of anti-government protests after the Aug. 4 explosion in Beirut’s port that decimated the facility and caused widespread destruction, killing at least 160 people and injured about 6,000 others.\nIn a brief televised speech after three of his ministers resigned, Prime Minister Hassan Diab said he is taking “a step back” so he can stand with the people “and fight the battle for change alongside them.”\n“I declare today the resignation of this government. May God protect Lebanon,” he said, repeating the last phrase three times.\nThe moment typified Lebanon’s political dilemma. Since October, there have been mass demonstrations demanding the departure of the entire sectarian-based leadership over entrenched corruption, incompetence and mismanagement.\nBut the ruling oligarchy has held onto power for so long — since the end of the civil war in 1990 — that it is difficult to find a credible political figure untainted by connections to it.\nDiab blamed corrupt politicians who preceded him for the “earthquake” that has hit Lebanon.\n“They (political class) should have been ashamed of themselves because their corruption is what has led to this disaster that had been hidden for seven years,” he added.\n“I have discovered that corruption is bigger than the state and that the state is paralyzed by this (ruling) clique and cannot confront if or get rid of it,” Diab, who was a professor at the American University of Beirut before he took the job.\nAlthough Diab’s resignation had appeared inevitable after the catastrophe, he seemed unwilling to leave and only two days ago made a televised speech in which he offered to stay on for two months to allow for various factions to agree on a road map for reforms. But the pressure from within his own Cabinet proved to be too much.\nDiab’s government was formed after his predecessor, Saad Hariri, stepped down in October in response to the demonstrations. It took months of bickering among the leadership factions before they settled on Diab.\nHis government, which was supported by the Hezbollah militant group and its allies and seen as one-sided, was basically doomed from the start, tasked with meeting demands for reform but made up of all the factions that reformers want out. Now the process must start again, with Diab’s government in a caretaker role as the same factions debate a new one.\n“I hope that the caretaking period will not be long because the country cannot take that. Lets hope a new government will be formed quickly,” Public Works Minister Michel Najjar told reporters. “An effective government is the least we need to get out of this crisis.”\nThe weekend protests saw clashes with security forces firing tear gas at protesters.\nThe explosion is believed to have been caused by a fire that ignited a 2,750-ton stockpile of highly volatile ammonium nitrate. The material had been stored at the port since 2013 with few safeguards despite numerous warnings of the danger.\nThe result was a disaster Lebanese blame squarely on their leadership’s corruption and neglect. Losses from the catastrophic blast are estimated to be between $10 billion to $15 billion, with nearly 300,000 people left homeless.\nThe last decision taken by Diab’s government before its resignation was to refer the case of the explosion to the Supreme Judicial Council, which handles crimes infringing on Lebanon’s national security as well as political and state security crimes. The Supreme Judicial Council is Lebanon’s top judicial body.\nA judge on Monday questioned the heads of the country’s security agencies. Public Prosecutor Ghassan El Khoury questioned Maj. Gen. Tony Saliba, the head of State Security, according to state-run National News Agency. It gave no further details, but other generals are scheduled to be questioned.\nState Security had compiled a report about the dangers of storing the material at the port and sent a copy to the offices of the president and prime minister on July 20. The investigation is focused on how the ammonium nitrate came to be stored at the port and why nothing was done about it.\nNajjar, the public works minister, said he learned about the material’s presence 24 hours before the blast, receiving a report about the material and holding a meeting with port officials before calling its chief, Hassan Korayetem.\n“I wrote a report in the morning the explosion happened in the evening,” Najjar said. Asked why he only learned of it the day before, Najjar said, “I don’t know. Truly I don’t know.”\nAbout 20 people have been detained after the blast, including the head of Lebanon’s customs department and his predecessor, as well as the head of the port. Dozens of people have been questioned, including two former Cabinet ministers, according to government officials.\nOn Sunday, world leaders and international organizations pledged nearly $300 million in emergency humanitarian aid to Beirut, but warned that no money for rebuilding the capital would be made available until Lebanese authorities commit themselves to the political and economic reforms demanded by the people.\nIran, meanwhile, expressed concern that Western countries and their allies might exploit anger over the explosion to pursue their political interests. Iran supports Hezbollah, which along with its allies dominates the government and parliament.\nIranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Abbas Mousavi said “it is natural for people to be frustrated.” But he said it would be “unacceptable if some individuals, groups and foreign countries use the incident as a pretext for their purposes and intentions.”\nIsraeli Defense Minister Benny Gantz drew a line Monday between the blast and claims that Hezbollah stores its rockets and weapons deep inside civilian areas.\nWhile he did not accuse Hezbollah and its arms of being linked to the blast, Gantz said villages and towns across Lebanon were packed with Hezbollah arms that, if set off — whether by Israeli operations or by accident — would destroy homes. He said Hezbollah was Lebanon’s biggest problem.}}
{{The video will start in 8 Cancel\nSign up to FREE email alerts from Daily Star - Daily News Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email\nThe use of chokeholds by police has been banned in Minneapolis following the death of George Floyd, according to US reports.\nThe agreement has been struck by negotiators for the city and the Minnesota Department of Human Rights.\nIt will be enforceable in court, reports the Minneapolis Star Tribune.\nThis will require any officer to immediately report the use of any neck restraint.\nIt follows the death of Floyd, which has sparked protests around the world after he was seen in a video pleading with an officer that he could not breathe.\nThe officer had his knee on his neck.\nThe draft agreement reads: “Black, Indigenous, and communities of colour have suffered generational pain and trauma as a result of systemic and institutional racism and long-standing problems in policing.\n“This continuous harm was once again highlighted by the in-custody death of George Floyd.\n"The Parties agree that many previous efforts have not resolved the historic problems in policing in this community.”\n(Image: Getty Images)\nThe draft states that officers must step in "regardless of tenure or rank".\nIt adds that any officer who “observes another member of the City’s Police Department use any unauthorised use of force, including any choke hold or neck restraint...has an affirmative duty to immediately report the incident while still on scene by phone or radio to their Commander or their Commander’s superiors.”}}
{{After three weeks of emotional and draining testimony, the jury has decided on a verdict for former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin in George Floyd’s death.\nABC News is live with coverage of the verdict, which is expected to be read between 3:30-4 p.m. Central Time. Watch the stream in the video player below:\nA stream of the verdict from CNN can also be seen here.\nThe jury of six white people and six people who are Black or multiracial began deliberations on Monday afternoon after closing arguments, in which prosecutors argued that Chauvin caused the death of Floyd by kneeling on his neck for about nine minutes.\nThe defense contended that Chauvin acted within his duty as an officer and that the 46-year-old Floyd died of a heart condition and illegal drug use.\nAd\nIn widely seen cell phone videos that were also shown in the trial, Chauvin can be seen holding the position even as Floyd cried “I can’t breathe” and his body went limp.\nChauvin, 45, was charged with unintentional second-degree murder, third-degree murder and manslaughter.\nThe most serious charge carries up to 40 years in prison.\nRead also:}}
{{Protesters have stormed the U.S. Capitol as Congress was meeting to count Electoral College votes. Watch continuing coverage here.}}
{{An Irishman has described the aftermath of the Beirut explosion as like something out of a horror movie.\nAnthony Cleary travelled to the Lebanese capital last week to get married and his apartment was destroyed in the blast.\nAt least 100 people died after more than 2,700 tonnes of ammonium nitrate was left unsecured at a warehouse near the city's port for six years.\nAnthony describes what happened to him when the explosion happened:}}
{{Here’s what we know so far.\nWhat happened?\nOn Tuesday around 6 p.m. local time, at least one initial explosion at a warehouse in the port area of Beirut ignited a fire, apparently triggering a second, far stronger blast that sent a shock wave across the city.\nA mushroom cloud of red-tinged smoke, visible from afar, billowed above the site of blasts.\nThe impact could be felt more than 100 miles away in the Mediterranean, but it was strongest in the popular Beirut neighborhoods near the port, lined with apartments, clubs and restaurants. The area was devastated by the explosions, with many buildings flattened.\nAD\nAD\nThe blast caused damage miles away, including at Beirut’s airport, south of downtown. Several foreign diplomatic missions, including the Norwegian and German embassies, were also affected.\nThe stream of injured strained the capacity of hospitals, according to the Lebanese Red Cross.\nIn the aftermath of the explosions, concerns also emerged over the release of potential toxins into the air.\nWhat caused the explosions?\nThe exact cause of the blasts remains to be determined definitively.\nMohammed Fahmi, the Lebanese interior minister, said the devastation was probably caused by the explosion of a stockpile of ammonium nitrate. Via a spokesman, Lebanese Prime Minister Hassan Diab said several thousand tons of the chemical had improperly been stored improperly for the past six years.\n“It is unacceptable and we cannot remain silent on this issue,” he said.\nPresident Trump said Tuesday said the blasts were a “terrible attack,” but no evidence has yet emerged that the explosions were set off on purpose.\nAD\nAD\nU.S. military officials said they were still examining the incident.\nWhat is ammonium nitrate?\nThe chemical easily forms explosive mixtures. It is commonly used in fertilizer — and in homemade explosives.\nIt is not explosive by itself but becomes dangerous when it is contaminated with other substances, such as oil, Gabriel da Silva of the University of Melbourne told the Guardian.\n“In the presence of heat, such a mixture can easily lead to catastrophic outcomes. The scale here suggests large quantities were involved,” said Roger W. Read, an honorary associate professor at University of New South Wales School of Chemistry, according to the Science Media Center.\nHow have other countries responded?\nAfter the blasts, many countries issued statements of support for Lebanon and pledged to help the country recover from with the disaster.\nAD\nAD\n“The pandemic already meant that hospitals are overwhelmed, and front-line workers are exhausted,” Yukie Mokuo, the Lebanon Representative for UNICEF, the United Nations’ children agency, said in a statement Wednesday.\nFrench President Emmanuel Macron announced he would visit the country Thursday and send three planes with medical equipment and professionals on Wednesday. French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said the country stood “alongside Lebanon,” a former French protectorate. The two countries maintain close diplomatic and economic ties.\nOther countries have offered aid. Planes from Kuwait landed in the Lebanese capital on Wednesday. Qatar, Jordan and Iran also offered to send medical aid and field hospitals to the site.\nAD\nNeighboring Israel offered emergency assistance as well — through international intermediaries because the two countries are technically at war.\nAD\nRussia pledged to send five planes full of medical aid and personnel, as well as coronavirus testing technology to Lebanon. Norway, Turkey, the Netherlands and Greece are also among the countries who have offered help.\nHow might the explosions affect life in Lebanon?\nLebanese Prime Minister Hassan Diab had earlier appealed for international support in response to what he called a “national tragedy."\nLebanon descended into a severe economic crisis over the past year. As banks limited the distribution of dollars, the official currency spiraled into free fall and bailout talks with the International Monetary Fund stalled. Many Lebanese have blamed the country’s political elite — widely seen as corrupt and mired in rampant corruption — for the economic collapse. Major protests erupted late last year and have resumed in recent months.\nAD\nAD\nTuesday’s explosions could worsen the country’s economy as it faces the additional burden of a rising novel coronavirus cases. Lebanon has officially recorded more than 5,000 coronavirus infections and 65 deaths, with 177 new cases reported Monday.\nAfter months of requests to stay home amid the pandemic, many people now find themselves homeless, forced to seek shelter among friends or relatives.\nThe mayor of Beirut, Marwan Abboud, said Wednesday that up to 300,000 people may have been left temporarily without a place to live. Schools are expected to open as shelters for homeless residents.\nRepairs could cost $5 billion.\nThe explosions could also threaten Lebanon’s food supply, as storage warehouses were destroyed. The import of medical supplies could also become more difficult.\nAD\n“The health system was already struggling to respond to the mounting health needs,” the International Committee of the Red Cross tweeted on Wednesday. “Now it is totally overwhelmed.”\nHas anything like this happened before?\nA dockside warehouse near a densely populated area. A stockpile of ammonium nitrate, stored under dubious conditions. A blast that tore parts of a city apart. Angry demands for accountability. Videos uploaded to social media that stunned viewers around the world.\nAD\nAlthough the exact cause of the Beirut blasts remains to be determined, they bear an undeniable resemblance to explosions that flattened parts of Tianjin, a Chinese port city, in 2015, killing over 170 people and injuring hundreds more.\nAD\nAt the time, Chinese investigators blamed the improper storage of chemicals, including ammonium nitrate. Unaware of the risks, firefighters tried to extinguish the initial fires but were themselves caught in a major subsequent blast.\nApocalyptic videos of the incident, shared on social media, mirror those recorded in Beirut on Tuesday.\nFollowing the explosions, Chinese and international media outlets uncovered numerous factors believed to have led to the incident, including a lax enforcement of safety rules and a lack of efficient oversight. There were some signs on Wednesday that similar factors may have also contributed or led to the Beirut explosions. Speaking to Reuters, an official source said “inaction and negligence” were probably the cause of the blasts, according to preliminary results of ongoing probes.\nAD\nAD\nThe United States once experienced a major accidental ammonium nitrate blast. In 1947, a stockpile of the chemical exploded in the port of Texas City, Tex., triggering a 15-foot-high wave and leaving hundreds of people dead. At the time, the blast was attributed to 2,300 tons of the chemical.}}
{{https://www.westernjournal.com/barr-announces-federal-intervention-george-floyd-case/\nAttorney General William Barr announced Friday that the Department of Justice has launched an independent investigation, separate from the one being conducted by the state of Minnesota, into the death of George Floyd.\n“The video images of the incident that ended with the death of Mr. Floyd, while in custody of Minneapolis police officers, were harrowing to watch and deeply disturbing,” Barr said in a statement.\nThe DOJ’s investigation, which the FBI is part of, will determine whether any federal civil rights laws were violated in the case.\n“Both state and federal officers are working diligently and collaboratively to ensure that any available evidence relevant to these decisions is obtained as quickly as possible,” Barr said.\n“Under our system, charging decisions must be, and will be, based on the law and facts. This process is proceeding quickly.”\nTRENDING: Washington Inflates COVID-19 Numbers, Includes Gunshot Victims Among Deaths\nThe attorney general added that he was “confident justice will be served.”\nPresident Donald Trump had also requested federal authorities to start an investigation into the “tragic death in Minnesota.”\n“At my request, the FBI and the Department of Justice are already well into an investigation as to the very sad and tragic death in Minnesota of George Floyd,” Trump tweeted.\n“I have asked for this investigation to be expedited and greatly appreciate all of the work done by local law enforcement. My heart goes out to George’s family and friends. Justice will be served!”\n….I have asked for this investigation to be expedited and greatly appreciate all of the work done by local law enforcement. My heart goes out to George’s family and friends. Justice will be served! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 27, 2020\nThe DOJ’s announcement came on the same day that Derek Chauvin, the former Minnesota police officer who put his knee on Floyd’s neck, was arrested and charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.\nChauvin was fired after 19 years on the police force immediately following the incident, along with three other officers who stood by idly.\n“This is by far the fastest that we’ve ever charged a police officer,” Hennepin County Attorney Mike Freeman said in a media conference announcing the arrest.\nFloyd’s death has spawned protests, and in many cases riots, around the country, not just in Minneapolis where Floyd died while in custody.\nRELATED: Barr Assigns Top Federal Prosecutor To Investigate Obamagate\nDo you think this situation has gotten out of hand? 0% (0 Votes) 0% (0 Votes)\nMinnesota Gov. Tim Walz issued a plea for calm Friday to rioters who have thrown the city of Minneapolis into chaos this week.\n“I will not patronize you as a white man without living those lived experiences,” the Democratic governor said, “but I am asking you to help us.”\n“Help us use humane ways to get the streets to a place where we can restore the justice so that those that are expressing rage and anger and demanding justice are heard, not those who throw fire bombs into businesses.”\nWe are committed to truth and accuracy in all of our journalism. Read our editorial standards.}}
{{A judge on Thursday rejected defense requests to move the trial of four former Minneapolis police officers charged in George Floyd’s death, and also ordered that all four will be tried together instead of separately.\nHennepin County Judge Peter Cahill ruled after defense attorneys had argued that pretrial publicity had made it impossible for the four men to get a fair trial in Minneapolis. They also cited a Sept. 11 hearing in which the men and their attorneys were confronted by angry protesters outside the courthouse, raising safety issues. Defense lawyers argued that witnesses could be intimidated, and jurors could be affected by chants from a crowd outside.\nBut Cahill said he was not convinced that moving the trial would improve security, and that he believes the jury can be protected from outside influences.\n“No corner of the State of Minnesota has been shielded from pretrial publicity regarding the death of George Floyd. Because of that pervasive media coverage, a change of venue is unlikely to cure the taint of potential prejudicial pretrial publicity,” he wrote.\nCahill said he was willing to revisit the issue if circumstances warrant. Moving the trial away from Minneapolis to a less diverse area also likely would affect the makeup of the jury, though the judge didn’t address that issue. In a separate order, however, he said the names of the jurors will be kept confidential, and that jurors will be fully sequestered during deliberations and escorted to the courthouse as a group.\nThe judge also ruled that the trial can be televised and streamed live, saying cameras will ensure the defendants’ right to a public trial and the public’s right to access during this time when spacing restrictions due to COVID-19 leave little to no room for spectators.\nDefense attorneys also argued that the men should face separate trials, as each officer tried to diminish his own role in Floyd’s arrest by pointing fingers at the others. But Cahill rejected that too, saying the complications of separate trials were too great and that trying the officers together would “ensure that the jury understands … all of the evidence and the complete picture of Floyd’s death.\n“And it would allow this community, this State and the nation to absorb the verdicts for the four defendants at once,” he concluded. Cahill said the critical evidence is the same for all men, and one trial would keep witnesses from having to testify multiple times.\nFloyd, a Black man in handcuffs, died May 25 after Derek Chauvin, who is white, pressed his knee against Floyd’s neck for several minutes even after he said he couldn’t breathe. Floyd’s death sparked protests in Minneapolis and beyond, and led to a nationwide reckoning on race. All four officers were fired. They are scheduled to stand trial in March.\nChauvin is charged with unintentional second-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter. The three other former officers, Thomas Lane, J. Kueng and Tou Thao, are charged with aiding and abetting both counts.\nTom Plunkett, Kueng’s attorney, said in a statement that he is reviewing Cahill’s orders. “My goal is to assure that a fair trial occurs for Mr. Kueng. We are happy to have the orders so we can start preparing for our trial and presenting the truth in front of a jury,” he said.\nDefense attorneys for Chauvin and Lane had no comment on the judge’s rulings. Thao’s attorney did not return messages seeking comment.\nMinnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison, whose office is prosecuting the case, praised the rulings as “another significant step forward” in the pursuit of justice for Floyd and the community.}}
{{Protests sparked by the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis made their way to Seattle starting Friday night, resulting in broken windows, small fires and clashes with police.\nThe unrest spread across dozens of American cities Friday, prompting the Pentagon to order the Army to put several active-duty U.S. military police units on the ready to deploy to Minneapolis. In Portland, police declared a riot late Friday night after protesters broke into the city’s police headquarters and set fires inside. In Seattle, at least two more rallies against police brutality are planned Saturday afternoon.\nThroughout Saturday, on this page, we’ll post updates from Seattle Times journalists and others on the protests in the Seattle area and throughout the nation.}}
{{EMBED >More News Videos Joe Biden spoke to the public Wednesday, saying: "It's clear that we're winning enough states to reach 270 electoral votes." Biden said it's important for the nation to unite once the 2020 presidential election is finalized.\nEMBED >More News Videos President Donald Trump, in an early morning appearance at the White House, made premature claims of victories in several key states and said he would take the election to the Supreme Court. It was unclear exactly what legal action he might try to pursue.\nEMBED >More News Videos Update on the legal fight ahead with the 2020 presidential election\nEMBED >More News Videos Paths to victory: How President Donald Trump or Democrat Joe Biden could win the presidential election as of Wednesday morning.\nEMBED >More News Videos Political Analyst Laura Washington is highlighting what Americans should be watching 2 days after the presidential election.\nWASHINGTON -- Democrat Joe Biden pushed closer Thursday to the 270 Electoral College votes he needed to win the White House while President Donald Trump escalated his unproven accusations of voter fraud and promises of legal action.States across the country were still counting ballots that were cast ahead of or on Election Day, and a handful of battlegrounds remained up for grabs. Trump tried to aggressively press his case in court, but with just a few key states in play, it was unclear whether the flurry of court action could have an impact on the trajectory of the race.The president tossed off a series of tweets alleging, without evidence, electoral misconduct and pressing for vote counting to stop. In an all-caps official campaign statement, he wrongly equated the counting of ballots with improper voting."IF YOU COUNT THE LEGAL VOTES, I EASILY WIN THE ELECTION! IF YOU COUNT THE ILLEGAL AND LATE VOTES, THEY CAN STEAL THE ELECTION FROM US!" said Trump.The president's erroneous claim could further rattle a nation uneasily waiting for a winner two days after Election Day. Neither candidate had amassed the votes needed to win the White House, but Biden's victories in Michigan and Wisconsin put him on the brink.Biden moved to project the appearance of a president, planning to attend a COVID-19 briefing on Thursday. Trump, in contrast, remained in the White House residence, working the phones and escalating his efforts to sow doubt about the outcome of the race.With millions of ballots yet to be tabulated, Biden already had received more than 71 million votes, the most in history. At an afternoon news conference Wednesday, the former vice president said he expected to win the presidency but stopped short of outright declaring victory."I will govern as an American president," Biden said. "There will be no red states and blue states when we win. Just the United States of America." Trump's campaign engaged in a flurry of legal activity to try to improve the Republican president's chances and cast doubt on the election results, requesting a recount in Wisconsin and filing lawsuits in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Georgia. Statewide recounts in Wisconsin have historically changed the vote tally by only a few hundred votes; Biden led by more than 20,000 ballots out of nearly 3.3 million counted.Contests in Georgia, Pennsylvania, Nevada and North Carolina were tight with votes still being tabulated.The Trump campaign said it was confident the president would ultimately pull out a victory in Arizona, where votes were also still being counted, including in Maricopa County, the state's most populous area. Biden is in the lead as of Thursday."The Associated Press continues to watch and analyze vote count results from Arizona as they come in," said Sally Buzbee, AP's executive editor. "We will follow the facts in all cases."Trump's legal challenges faced long odds. He would have to win multiple suits in multiple states in order to stop vote counts, since more than one state was undeclared.There were no obvious grounds for the Justice Department to attempt to intervene to stop a vote count at the state level, unless the federal government could somehow assert a violation of federal voting laws or the Constitution. The department could theoretically file a brief in support of a Trump campaign lawsuit if it believed there were federal concerns at stake, but that intervention would be extraordinary.Trump has insisted ballot counting must stop, but it was unclear exactly what that included. Counting for votes received by Nov. 3 was continuing, but roughly 20 states allow ballots to be counted if postmarked by Nov. 3 but received in the days after. In some states that is as long as nine days, or even longer. Some of the deadline changes were made as a result of the pandemic, but others are just routine parts of state election laws. Trump has fixated on Pennsylvania, where the Supreme Court refused to stop a court's ruling that allowed for a three-day extension.He also said he was taking fraud claims to court - but most of the lawsuits only demand better access for campaign observers to locations where ballots are being processed and counted. A judge in Georgia dismissed the campaign's suit there less than 12 hours after it was filed. Biden attorney Bob Bauer said the suits were legally "meritless."Their only purpose, he said "is to create an opportunity for them to message falsely about what's taking place in the electoral process."It was unclear when a national winner would be determined after a long, bitter campaign dominated by the coronavirus and its effects on Americans and the national economy. The U.S. on Wednesday set another record for daily confirmed cases as several states posted all-time highs. The pandemic has killed more than 233,000 people in the United States.Beyond the presidency, Democrats had hoped the election would allow the party to reclaim the Senate and pad its majority in the House. But while the voting scrambled seats in the House and Senate, it ultimately left Congress much like it began - deeply divided.}}
{{Louisiana elected officials react to Biden's inauguration\nWASHINGTON - Elected officials from Louisiana chimed in Wednesday after Joe Biden was sworn in as U.S. president Wednesday.\nCassidy was the first of Louisiana's Congressional delegation to remark on the start of the new administration. The Senator was also present at the U.S. Capitol for the inauguration.\n“I look forward to working with the Biden administration to create more and better paying jobs for Louisiana workers, to lower the cost of health care, to improve the lives of Louisiana families, and to drive our country forward," Cassidy said.\nGovernor John Bel Edwards was also present Wednesday.\nToday, I was proud to represent Louisiana at the Inauguration of @POTUS and @VP. I hope all Louisianans will heed his call to unite with our whole souls as we work together to address the many issues facing our country. #lagov #Inauguration pic.twitter.com/r44DhAGBTm — John Bel Edwards (@LouisianaGov) January 20, 2021\nSenator John Kennedy also commented on the inauguration after attending the ceremony.}}
{{WASHINGTON/WILMINGTON: Democrat Joe Biden inched nearer to victory on Thursday over Donald Trump in an exceedingly close U.S. election that hinged on razor-thin margins in a handful of states, while the Republican president launched a flurry of lawsuits hoping to slow down his opponent.\nTensions rose in some places as the ballot counting dragged on two days after polls closed, with a second day of sometimes dueling street demonstrations over the integrity of the election. Biden, the former U.S. vice president, was continuing to cut into Trump`s leads in Pennsylvania and Georgia while holding on to slim margins in Nevada and Arizona.\nTrump, who during the long and rancorous campaign attacked the integrity of the U.S. voting system, has again alleged voting fraud without providing evidence, filed lawsuits and called for at least one state recount. The latest move by Trump`s campaign was a lawsuit to be announced later on Thursday alleging voting fraud in Nevada, another of the crucial states where he narrowly trails Biden.\nSome legal experts called the challenges a long shot unlikely to affect the eventual outcome of the election, one of the most unusual presidential races in modern U.S. history due to the coronavirus pandemic. Concern about the virus caused a huge jump in people voting by mail, delaying the results.\nStill, Biden was leading in Wisconsin, Nevada and Arizona and closing in on Trump in Georgia and Pennsylvania. Multiple Trump lawsuits and a recount request would have to succeed and find in some cases tens of thousands of invalid ballots to reverse the result if Biden does prevail.\n"What we are seeing on these legal suits are that they are meritless, and nothing more than an attempt to distract and delay what is now inevitable: Joe Biden will be the next president of the United States," Biden`s campaign manager Jen O`Malley Dillon told reporters. Trump`s campaign predicted victory, with campaign manager Bill Stepien saying, "Donald Trump is alive and well" in the election.\nSome of the outstanding votes in Georgia and Pennsylvania were clustered in places expected to lean Democratic - like the Atlanta and Philadelphia areas. In Georgia, officials expressed hope that they would have a resolution in their vote count by the end of Thursday. Trump`s eroding lead stood at around 14,000, with about 2 percent of the ballots remaining to be tallied. Trump`s lead was about 115,000 votes in Pennsylvania, with about 8 percent of the ballots left to be counted.\nTrump has to win the states where he is still ahead, including North Carolina, plus either Arizona or Nevada to triumph and avoid becoming the first incumbent U.S. president to lose a re-election bid since fellow Republican George H.W. Bush in 1992. The president appears to have grown more upset as his leads in some states have diminished or evaporated during the counting. On Thursday morning, he weighed in on Twitter, writing, "STOP THE COUNT!" and "STOP THE FRAUD!" although he has no authority over ballot counting.\nTrump, who has often relished legal battles during his long, turbulent, business career, was at the White House, working the phones and monitoring developments on television, two Trump advisers said. He has been talking to state governors as well as close friends and advisers and dispatched some of this closest advisers out in the field to fight for him.\nTo capture the White House, a candidate must amass at least 270 votes in the state-by-state Electoral College. Such electoral votes are based largely on a state`s population. Edison Research gave Biden a 243 to 213 lead in Electoral College votes. Other news outlets said Biden had won Wisconsin, which would give him another 10 votes.\nThe exceedingly close election has underscored the political polarization in the United States and the deep divisions along racial, socioeconomic, religious and generational lines as well as between urban and rural areas. The counting and court challenges set the stage for days if not weeks of uncertainty before Dec. 8, the deadline to resolve election disputes. The president is sworn into office on Jan. 20, 2021.\nRAZOR-THIN MARGINS\nTrump`s campaign called for a recount in Wisconsin, where Biden led by roughly 21,000 votes out of 3.3 million cast, a margin slim enough to entitle him to a recount. However elections experts said a recount in Wisconsin was seen as unlikely to alter the result. Trump`s campaign announced plans to file a Nevada lawsuit alleging a series of voting irregularities in populous Clark County, which includes Las Vegas, such as voting by people who left the state or were dead.\nHis campaign also filed lawsuits in Michigan and Pennsylvania to stop vote counting. Michigan Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson, in charge of elections, called the Trump team`s lawsuit "frivolous." Trump`s campaign filed a lawsuit in Georgia to require that Chatham County, which includes the city of Savannah, separate and secure late-arriving ballots to ensure they are not counted.\nIt also asked the U.S. Supreme Court to allow Trump to join a pending lawsuit filed by Pennsylvania Republicans over whether the battleground state should be permitted to accept late-arriving ballots that were mailed by Election Day. Despite Trump`s allegations of fraud and an unsubstantiated charge that Democrats are trying to "steal" the election, U.S. election experts say fraud in balloting is rare.\nThursday marked a second day of peaceful election-related protests as demonstrators rallied in cities including Philadelphia, Washington, Phoenix and Detroit. Some groups, mainly Democrats, rallied around the slogan to "count every vote." Some Trump supporters countered with cries to "protect the vote" in support of his campaign`s efforts to have some categories of ballots, including some votes submitted by mail, discarded.\nAbout 200 Trump supporters, some armed with rifles and handguns, gathered outside an election office in Phoenix on Wednesday following unsubstantiated rumors that votes were not being counted. Biden had drawn about 3.6 million more votes than Trump nationwide. Trump defeated Democrat Clinton in 2016 after winning crucial battleground states and securing the Electoral College win even though she won about 3 million more votes nationwide.}}
{{National-World\nBrooklyn Nets point guard Kyrie Irving bought a house for the family of George Floyd, who died last year at the hands of a Minneapolis police officer.\nFormer NBA player Stephen Jackson, who was a close friend of Floyd’s, discussed the gift and the outpouring of support for Floyd’s 7-year-old daughter, Gianna, on “The Rematch” podcast.\nFloyd, who was Black, died in May after former police officer Derek Chauvin knelt on his neck for almost eight minutes.\nChauvin is scheduled to be tried in March on charges of second-degree unintentional murder and second-degree manslaughter. Three other officers were fired and also face charges in connection with the incident.\nFloyd’s death inspired protests across the United States and all over the world.\nJackson said he’d known Floyd since he was a teenager and said everyone called them twins.\n“Kyrie Irving bought them a house. Lil Wayne’s manager bought them a Mercedes Benz. Barbara Streisand gave them stock in Disney, so I think God has definitely blessed her and right now she’s she’s doing the best she’s ever done, she’s happy,” Jackson said.\nIrving’s publicist confirmed the gift in an email to CNN, but did not give any more details.\n“Kyrie simply wanted to help,” said publicist Ashley Blackwood.\nIn a statement, Jackson said that Irving had been checking in on him to see what he could do.\n“He wanted to help George’s family and I let him know that a house was what they needed at that time and he made it happen in a heartbeat,” Jackson said.\nA GoFundMe campaign for Gianna has raised more than $2.3 million and Kanye West set up a college fund for her as part of a $2 million donation to help her family and the families of Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor.\nTexas Southern University has also offered her a full scholarship if she decides to attend the school.}}
{{It is one of the most closely watched trials in several years - AFP\nThe trial of Derek Chauvin, the former police officer accused of killing George Floyd, has been halted while the court considers reinstating an additional third-degree murder charge.\nHundreds of protesters had gathered in downtown Minneapolis for the highly anticipated trial which was slated to begin Monday with jury selection.\nMr Chauvin faces trial on charges of second-degree unintentional murder and manslaughter after he was filmed pinning Mr Floyd, an unarmed black man, to the ground until he became motionless last May.\nHowever, Judge Peter Cahill ruled the proceedings would be delayed for at least 24 hours as prosecutors attempt to reinstate an additional third-degree murder charge in the hope of improving their odds of securing a conviction.\nThe delay was triggered by a dispute over whether the jury selection process can move forward before a ruling on whether to reinstate the third-degree murder charge.\nDerek Chauvin - AFP\nOn Friday the Minnesota Appeals Court ordered Judge Cahill to reconsider reinstating the third-degree murder charge which he dismissed in the autumn.\nMr Chauvin's defence lawyer, Eric Nelson, indicated he would file an appeal to that decision in the state's Supreme Court.\nJudge Cahill ruled that the proceedings would be halted until the issue is dealt with by a higher court.\nThe prosecution's case is being led by Minnesota's attorney general, Keith Ellison, amid huge public scrutiny and a national reckoning over systemic racism and brutality in policing.\nHundreds of demonstrators gathered outside the Minneapolis courthouse as proceedings began, bearing signs that read, "Justice for George Floyd" and "Convict Killer Cops."\nJury selection is likely to resume on Tuesday and expected to take at least three weeks, as the prosecution and defence try to weed out jurors who may be biased against them.\nMr Chauvin's lawyer had earlier argued that the intense public interest in the case and the wave of violent protests that followed Mr Floyd's death would make it impossible to find an impartial jury in the county.\nStory continues\nPotential jurors have been grilled on their knowledge of the case, including whether they have protested against police brutality and their views on the US justice system.\nThey have also been asked how many times they watched the footage of Mr Floyd's arrest, which was viewed by millions across the world and sparked widespread calls for policing reforms.\nInside the courtroom, Mr Chauvin, dressed in a blue suit and black mask, followed the proceedings attentively and carried a legal notepad.\nIn addition to Mr Chauvin, three other officers were fired over the arrest and subsequent death of Mr Floyd.\nThe three other former officers face an August trial on aiding and abetting charges.}}
{{Death Toll Rises in Beirut As Rescue Efforts Continue After Explosion\nRACHEL MARTIN, HOST:\nThere is this aerial footage coming out of Beirut now. The footage shows above the port where that massive explosion tore through the city. And all you can see is the remains of the port. The surrounding neighborhood's just a wasteland now littered with destroyed buildings and crushed vehicles. The death toll is now at least 137 lives lost. More than 5,000 people are wounded. NPR's Ruth Sherlock is covering this for us. Good morning, Ruth.\nRUTH SHERLOCK, BYLINE: Good morning.\nMARTIN: What's the latest you can tell us about search and rescue operations? What's happening on the ground?\nSHERLOCK: Well, Rachel, as you were describing there, you know, the damage from this explosion is catastrophic. There are miles of smashed buildings. And officials are estimating that hundreds of thousands of people have been made homeless. And, you know - so you know, people are still kind of reeling from this. They're trying to come to terms with it. Aid groups are on the ground. And the rescue effort is ongoing. And then there's also hundreds of regular Lebanese people who - some of whom have lost their own homes. And they're rallying to try to help get the worst affected out, to try to clear the debris from the city. There's a terrible economic crisis already in Lebanon.\nAnd there were these Facebook groups set up that were for Lebanese people to barter goods. Now those groups are being used to coordinate help to the worst affected areas. And just to give you a sense of what they're up against, the landlord of our bureau in Beirut, which was also damaged, is an architect that restores these beautiful traditional Lebanese homes. He watched much of his life's work go - be destroyed in the blink of an eye. And he said, you know, Lebanese are used to damage from the country's 15 years of civil war. But this destruction was like the destruction of all of the civil war in a single moment.\nMARTIN: Wow. Is there any more information about how this happened?\nSHERLOCK: Well, a lot of people when they think of Beirut, they think of the Lebanese militia Hezbollah or the sporadic conflict with Israel. And it will be hard to know for sure what has happened until there've been, you know, results of a full investigation. But initial responses from Lebanese officials suggest that this might actually have been a terrible, massive accident. They're briefing that the explosion was caused by the eruption of 2,750 metric tons of ammonium nitrate, which was used for fertilizers and bombs. And they say it was improperly stored for years in a warehouse at the port and that a separate, smaller fire might've ignited it.\nIt seems the ammonium nitrate may actually have come on a ship that made an unscheduled stop at the Beirut port in 2013 because of technical difficulties. And then it was abandoned by the Russian businessman who leased it. Apparently, customs officials appealed six times to Lebanese courts for guidance on what to do and warned of the dangers of keeping, you know, this valuable substance in a crowded city.\nMARTIN: Wow.\nSHERLOCK: Local media is saying that the prime minister's office might even have been made aware of this last year. So potentially, this is just criminal negligence.\nMARTIN: Which, I imagine, is just going to intensify protests, right? People have been demonstrating on the streets about the state of Lebanon and its dysfunction.\nSHERLOCK: Yes. And so you can imagine how angry people are. You know, Lebanese are still trying to put together the pieces of their shattered lives. But you're already seeing spontaneous protests with young people marching through the streets shouting revolution. Yesterday, there were stones thrown at the convoy of the former prime minister, Saad al-Hariri. And I think this is just the beginning.\nMARTIN: All right. NPR's Ruth Sherlock for us. Thank you so much.\nSHERLOCK: Thank you very much.\nCopyright © 2020 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information.\nNPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm, Inc., an NPR contractor, and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.}}
{{(AP) - California certified its presidential election Friday and appointed 55 electors pledged to vote for Democrat Joe Biden, officially handing him the Electoral College majority needed to win the White House.\nSecretary of State Alex Padilla’s formal approval of Biden’s win in the state brought his tally of pledged electors so far to 279, according to a tally by The Associated Press. That’s just over the 270 threshold for victory.\nThese steps in the election are often ignored formalities. But the hidden mechanics of electing a U.S. president have drawn new scrutiny this year as President Donald Trump continues to deny Biden’s victory and pursues increasingly specious legal strategies aimed at overturning the results before they are finalized.\nAlthough it’s been apparent for weeks that Biden won the presidential election, his accrual of more than 270 electors is the first step toward the White House, said Edward B. Foley, a law professor at Ohio State University.\n“It is a legal milestone and the first milestone that has that status,” Foley said. “Everything prior to that was premised on what we call projections.”\nThe electors named Friday will meet Dec. 14, along with counterparts in each state, to formally vote for the next president. Most states have laws binding their electors to the winner of the popular vote in their state, measures that were upheld by a Supreme Court decision this year. There have been no suggestions that any of Biden’s pledged electors would contemplate not voting for him.\nResults of the Electoral College vote are due to be received, and typically approved, by Congress on Jan. 6. Although lawmakers can object to accepting the electors’ votes, it would be almost impossible for Biden to be blocked at that point.\nThe Democratic-controlled House and Republican-controlled Senate would both vote separately to resolve any disputes. One already has arisen from Pennsylvania, where 75 Republican lawmakers signed a statement on Friday urging Congress to block the state’s electoral votes from being cast for Biden. But the state’s Republican U.S. senator, Pat Toomey, said soon afterward that he would not be objecting to Pennsylvania’s slate of electors, underscoring the difficulty in trying to change the election results through Congress.\n“As a practical matter, we know that Joe Biden is going to be inaugurated on Jan. 20,” Foley said.\nThat was clear in the days after the election, when the count of mail ballots gradually made clear that Biden had won victories in enough states to win the Electoral College. It became even more apparent in late November, when every swing state won by Biden certified him as the winner of its elections and appointed his electors to the Electoral College. Trump has fruitlessly tried to stop those states from certifying Biden as the winner and appointing electors for the former vice president.\nHe made no effort in deeply Democratic California, the most populous state in the nation and the trove of its largest number of electoral votes. Three more states won by Biden — Colorado, Hawaii and New Jersey — have not yet certified their results. When they do, Biden will have 306 Electoral College votes to Trump’s 232.\nTrump and his allies have brought at least 50 legal cases trying to overturn the results in the swing states Biden won — mainly Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. More than 30 have been rejected or dropped, according to an AP tally.\nTrump and his allies have also raised the far-fetched notion that Republican state legislatures in those states could appoint a rival set of electors pledged to Trump.\nBut state Republican leaders have rejected that approach, and it would likely be futile in any case. According to federal law, both chambers of Congress would need to vote to accept a competing slate of electors. If they don’t, the electors appointed by the states’ governors — all pledged to Biden in these cases — must be used.\nThe last remaining move to block the election would be the quixotic effort to vote down the electors in Congress.\nThis tactic has been tried — a handful of congressional Democrats in 2000, 2004 and 2016 objected to officially making both George W. Bush and Trump president. But the numbers were not enough to block the two men from taking office.\nCopyright 2020 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.}}
{{WAYNE COUNTY, Mich. – Wayne County leaders are publicly responding to the killing of Minneapolis man George Floyd as protests against police brutality are held in Detroit and around the nation.\nMORE: 1 killed, multiple arrests made during protests in Downtown Detroit\nFloyd was killed during an altercation with Minneapolis police on May 25. Now-former police officer Derek Chauvin, 44, knelt on Floyd’s neck while he was handcuffed and laying on the ground, even as he said he could not breathe. The officer continued to kneel on Floyd’s neck for at least seven minutes. Chauvin was recently charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.\nIn response to the killing of Floyd, protests against police brutality and in support of black Americans were held across the country. A “March Against Police Brutality” was held in Downtown Detroit on Friday afternoon in what began as a peaceful protest and later became more chaotic.\nMORE: 61 people arrested in Downtown Detroit George Floyd protest, police say\nWayne County representatives have made the following statements regarding Floyd’s death and the protests that followed:\nDetroit Police Chief James Craig\nDetroit Police Chief James Craig said the police officer involved in the killing of George Floyd should be arrested for murder.\n“It was clear evidence, that suggests it was probable cause to arrest this officer for murder,” said Chief James Craig with Detroit Police.\nWATCH: Detroit Police Chief James Craig calls the death of George Floyd ‘murder’\n“Even when once officer engages in excessive force, we all share the disappointment for the dishonors it brings to our badge,” Craig said. “When you talk about trust, it’s the glue. We mustn’t forget, as police officers, we work for the community."\nWayne County Executive Warren C. Evans\n“The death of George Floyd has poured additional salt into the already open and unhealed wounds of brutality and racism faced by so many of us in the African American community. We need a safe place for people to peacefully express their understandable anger and frustration over the systemic inequality people of color continue to face in the United States and the clear lack of impetus towards systemic solutions. We give “lip service” to the problems and issues but not much more.\nYesterday, tens of thousands of people of all races and ethnicities gathered in cities across America to peacefully protest. In many cases, both protesters and law enforcement worked to deescalate situations before they turned violent. I commend both for their restraint.\nSome of those protests were marred by violence, I am told, started by a small number of agitator’s intent on physical confrontation with law enforcement. In Detroit, we saw violence result in the shooting death of a young man on our streets. The problem is systemic inequality and shooting does nothing to cure that ill.\nWe can spend our time critiquing the litany of tragic events that now include Mr. Floyd or we can spend that time advocating strongly for the systemic changes we need, want and deserve as fully vested citizens of this country.”\nWayne County Prosecutor Kym Worthy\n“As my office starts to receive more information about some of the instances of violence from last night’s protests, it is important to note that an overwhelming number of people were engaged in peaceful protest. The death of George Floyd is something that has profoundly affected our nation. Peaceful demonstrations with respect for all is absolutely warranted in this situation. The point of protesting what happened to Mr. Floyd can be lost when violence becomes the narrative of the protest. I urge everyone to continue to honor Mr. Floyd by engaging in safe, peaceful and civil protest of his murder."\nRELATED HEADLINES}}
{{Watch live video of the verdict in the Derek Chauvin trial here. The verdict is expected to be announced between 3:30 and 4 p.m. today.}}
{{The families of Jacob Blake Jr., George Floyd and Eric Garner will take part in what is described as their first joint interview for a special edition of "Dateline NBC" Thursday night.\nThe hourlong special, airing at 9 p.m. Central Time Thursday on NBC, is titled "Journey for Justice."\nThe three families share a tragic bond: Blake was shot seven times by a Kenosha police officer last summer; Floyd died in May after a Minneapolis police officer pinned him on the ground with his knee for nearly nine minutes; and Garner died in 2014 after being put in a chokehold by a New York City police officer.\n"There's two systems of justice," Blake's father, Jacob Blake Sr., tells NBC News' Craig Melvin in a preview for the special released Tuesday.\n"History keeps on repeating itself over and over again," Blake's sister, Letetra Widman, says.\nThe special also explores the demand for police reform and the need to do something about police violence against Black Americans; interview subjects include civil rights attorney Ben Crump, who is representing Blake and George Floyd's family; and Jim Palmer, executive director of Wisconsin Professional Police Association.\nContact Chris Foran at chris.foran@jrn.com. Follow him on Twitter at @cforan12.}}
{{Sixteen employees at Beirut’s port have been detained over the explosion that killed more than 100 people and wounded thousands, according to reports.\nLebanon’s state-run National News Agency quoted Government Commissioner to the Military Court Judge Fadi Akiki as saying that 18 people have been questioned so far.\nAll of them are port and customs officials, as well as individuals in charge of maintenance at the hangar where 2,750 tons of explosive materials have been stored for years.\nMr Akiki said that the investigation began shortly after the blast occurred on Tuesday evening and will continue to cover all suspects in the explosion.}}
{{ATLANTA (AP) — As Democrat Joe Biden is sworn in Wednesday as the nation’s 46th president, Donald Trump’s most ardent supporters still believe Biden was not legitimately elected after Trump continues to argue the election was stolen.\nThere is no evidence of the widespread fraud that Trump and his allies have claimed. Republican and Democratic election officials have certified the election as valid. Courts have rejected lawsuit after lawsuit, and a clear majority of Congress has confirmed the final result despite a riotous mob earlier this month that sought to disrupt the process.\nSo who has claimed what, precisely? What’s the evidence that the 2020 election was valid and Biden is the duly elected president of the United States?\nThe ‘most secure’ election in U.S. history\nAfter a rocky primary season that played out during the coronavirus pandemic, election officials were determined to ensure voters could safely cast their ballots and ramped up operations to handle a massive influx of absentee ballots. Voting absentee has long been available in the U.S., with some states limiting it to certain voters, and the process has safeguards so any ineligible voter or voter casting multiple ballots is caught and prosecuted.\nIn many places, election officials added drop boxes for voters concerned about widespread mail delays. Others offered curbside voting and a few states opted to send ballots to all registered voters. Although Trump and his allies claimed these changes were designed to rig the election in favor of Democrats, Trump saw more people vote for him in 2020 than four years earlier and Republicans gained seats in Congress.\nOne of the changes that drew the most scrutiny was the expansion of absentee voting in Pennsylvania, but that was done prior to the pandemic and authorized in a law passed with bipartisan support through the state’s Republican-controlled Legislature.\nState and local election officials have called the November election one of the smoothest in recent memory, with voting spread out across days and even weeks rather than a crush of people at polling places on Election Day. Even Trump’s recently departed attorney general, William Barr, said he saw no evidence of widespread fraud.\nAnd the fact that so many people voted using a paper ballot, which guarantees a record in the event of a dispute, prompted a coalition of government and election security officials, including representatives of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s cybersecurity agency, to issue a statement calling 2020 the “most secure” election.\nWork reviewed, results certified\nAfter voting ended, election officials counted the results and used various measures to verify the totals, such as looking at how many people checked in at each precinct and how many ballots were issued to ensure they add up. For mail ballots, election workers reviewed the voter’s registration to ensure they were eligible to vote and many states matched voter signatures against ones on file.\nAny discrepancies were investigated, and results were presented to local election boards and eventually to the state to certify the results as accurate. This happened across the country largely without controversy, except for a few instances in which Republicans raised questions. In these cases, the concerns were dismissed as without merit and the elections certified.\nIn Georgia, Biden’s win was verified three times: with an initial count, a second conducted by hand and then a recount. The state also conducted an audit of voting machines to ensure the votes recorded electronically matched paper records submitted by voters. A limited review of voter signatures found no evidence of widespread illegal voting.\nAnd ultimately, Republican and Democratic governors signed off on the results, including Trump allies Gov. Brian Kemp of Georgia and Gov. Doug Ducey of Arizona who both certified that Biden won their states.\nFlood of litigation, claims of fraud\nTrump and his GOP backers have suffered loss after loss in the legal system, all the way up to the U.S. Supreme Court, as they sought to overturn the will of voters in a few states that Trump lost with unsubstantiated claims of widespread fraud. Their cases have drawn quick dismissals and scathing responses from judges, some of whom were appointed by Republicans or Trump himself:\n— U.S. District Judge Timothy Batten in Georgia, an appointee of President George W. Bush, rejected a lawsuit alleging votes were manipulated in favor of Biden, saying “they want this court to substitute its judgment for that of two-and-a-half million Georgia voters who voted for Joe Biden and this I am unwilling to do.”\n— U.S. Circuit Judge Stephanos Bibas, a former law professor appointed by Trump, wrote, “voters, not lawyers, choose the president. Ballots, not briefs, decide elections,” as his panel refused to grant a request to stop Pennsylvania from certifying its results.\nIn about 60 cases filed by Trump’s legal team and Republican allies, Trump notched just one small victory in a fight over the deadline to provide missing proof of identification for certain absentee ballots and mail-in ballots in Pennsylvania.\nAs his legal bids failed, Trump tried to enlist the help of elected officials in key states. He summoned Michigan lawmakers to the White House in an unsuccessful attempt to set aside the vote tally. He asked Georgia’s governor to convene the state legislature to overturn the results and told Georgia’s top elections official to “find” enough votes to sway the state in his favor.\nAmid all the claims, it was noteworthy that they began and ended with the presidential contest. There have not been widespread calls to redo the entire election, which also included congressional and state legislative seats.\nAfter mob, Congress confirms\nThe steady drumbeat of false claims about widespread fraud made it to the Capitol as Congress met to confirm Biden’s victory, with more than 100 GOP lawmakers supporting objections.\nThe meeting to complete the Electoral College tally is normally a routine step. But the process turned deadly as a mob of thousands of Trump supporters stormed the building. After the melee was cleared, lawmakers reconvened and confirmed the results before dawn the following day.\nIn a strong rebuke Tuesday, Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell said “the mob was fed lies” by Trump and others. “They were provoked by the president and other powerful people, and they tried to use fear and violence to stop a specific proceeding of a branch of the federal government,” McConnell said. He vowed a “safe and successful” inauguration of Biden.\n-- The Associated Press}}
{{Lebanon's prime minister stepped down from his job on Monday in the wake of the disastrous Beirut port explosion that triggered public fury, saying he has come to the conclusion that corruption in Lebanon is "bigger than the state."\nIn a brief televised speech after three of his ministers resigned, Prime Minister Hassan Diab said that he is taking "a step back" so he can stand with the people "and fight the battle for change alongside them."\n"I declare today the resignation of this government. May God protect Lebanon," he said, repeating the last phrase three times.\nLebanese Prime Minister Hassan Diab has announced that he and his government are resigning following last week's devastating explosion. Photo / AP\nThe move risks opening the way to dragged-out negotiations over a new Cabinet amid urgent calls for reform. It follows a weekend of anti-government protests in the wake of the August 4 explosion in Beirut's port that decimated the facility and caused widespread destruction, killing at least 160 people and injured about 6000 others.\nAdvertisement\nThe moment typified Lebanon's political dilemma. Since October, there have been mass demonstrations demanding the departure of the entire sectarian-based leadership over entrenched corruption, incompetence and mismanagement.\nBut the ruling oligarchy has held onto power for so long — since the end of the civil war in 1990 — that it is difficult to find a credible political figure not tainted by connections to them.\nDiab blamed corrupt politicians who preceded him for the "earthquake" that has hit Lebanon.\n"They (political class) should have been ashamed of themselves because their corruption is what has led to this disaster that had been hidden for seven years," he added.\n"I have discovered that corruption is bigger than the state and that the state is paralyzed by this (ruling) clique and cannot confront if or get rid of it," Diab, who was a university professor at the American University of Beirut before he took the job.\nEarth moving equipment and rescue workers search for victims yesterday in Beirut, Lebanon, near the site of last week's explosion that hit the city's seaport. Photo / AP\nAlthough Diab's resignation had appeared inevitable after the catastrophe, he seemed unwilling to leave and only two days ago made a televised speech in which he offered to stay on for two months to allow for various factions to agree on a roadmap for reforms. But the pressure from within his own Cabinet proved to be too much.\nDiab's government was formed after his predecessor, Saad Hariri, stepped down in October in response to the demonstrations. It took months of bickering among the leadership factions before they settled on Diab.\nHis government, which was supported by Hezbollah and its allies and seen as one-sided, was basically doomed from the start, tasked with meeting demands for reform but made up of all the factions that reformers want out. Now the process must start again, with Diab's government in a caretaker role as the same factions debate a new one.\nAdvertisement\nA protester throws stones against the Lebanese riot police, during anti-government protest following last week's massive explosion which devastated Beirut. Photo / AP\n"I hope that the caretaking period will not be long because the country cannot take that. Lets hope a new government will be formed quickly," Public Works Minister Michel Najjar told reporters. "An effective government is the least we need to get out of this crisis."\nThe weekend protests saw clashes with security forces firing tear gas at protesters.\nThe explosion is believed to have been caused by a fire that ignited a 2750-ton stockpile of highly volatile ammonium nitrate. The material had been stored at the port since 2013 with few safeguards despite numerous warnings of the danger.\nThe result was a disaster Lebanese blame squarely on their leadership's corruption and neglect. Losses from the catastrophic blast are estimated to be between $10 billion to $15 billion, with nearly 300,000 people left homeless.\nThe last decision taken by Diab's government before its resignation was to refer the case of the explosion to the Supreme Judicial Council, which handles crimes infringing on Lebanon's national security as well as political and state security crimes. The Supreme Judicial Council is Lebanon's top judicial body.\nRows of destroyed trucks are seen yesterday at the site of last week's explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon. Nearly $300m has been pledged to assist the country. Photo / AP\nA judge on Monday questioned the heads of the country's security agencies. Public Prosecutor Ghassan El Khoury questioned Maj. Gen. Tony Saliba, the head of State Security, according to state-run National News Agency. It gave no further details, but other generals are scheduled to be questioned.\nAdvertisement\nState Security had compiled a report about the dangers of storing the material at the port and sent a copy to the offices of the president and prime minister on July 20. The investigation is focused on how the ammonium nitrate came to be stored at the port and why nothing was done about it.\nNajjar, the public works minister, said he learned about the material's presence 24 hours before the blast, receiving a report about the material and holding a meeting with port officials before calling its chief, Hassan Korayetem.\nA family stands on their balcony of their damaged house near the site of last week's explosion that hit the seaport of Beirut, Lebanon. The Lebanese government has resigned today. Photo / AP\n"I wrote a report in the morning the explosion happened in the evening," Najjar said. Asked why he only learned of it the day before, Najjar said, "I don't know. Truly I don't know."\nAbout 20 people have been detained after the blast, including the head of Lebanon's customs department and his predecessor, as well as the head of the port. Dozens of people have been questioned, including two former Cabinet ministers, according to government officials.\nOn Sunday, world leaders and international organisations pledged nearly $300 million in emergency humanitarian aid to Beirut, but warned that no money for rebuilding the capital would be made available until Lebanese authorities commit themselves to the political and economic reforms demanded by the people.\nIran, meanwhile, expressed concern that Western countries and their allies might exploit anger over the explosion to pursue their political interests. Iran supports the Hezbollah militant group, which along with its allies dominates the government and parliament.\nAdvertisement\nProtesters celebrate after removing a concrete slab from a barrier to open a road leading to the parliament building during demonstrations following last week's massive explosion. Photo / AP\nIranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Abbas Mousavi said "it is natural for people to be frustrated." But he said it would be "unacceptable if some individuals, groups and foreign countries use the incident as a pretext for their purposes and intentions."\nIsraeli Defense Minister Benny Gantz drew a line Monday between the blast and claims that Hezbollah stores its rockets and weapons deep inside civilian areas.\nWhile he did not accuse Hezbollah and its arms of being linked to the blast, Gantz said villages and towns across Lebanon were packed with Hezbollah arms that, if set off — whether by Israeli operations or by accident — would destroy homes. He said Hezbollah was Lebanon's biggest problem.\n- AP}}
{{Secret Service says demonstrators "were violent, assaulting Secret Service Officer and Special Agents with bricks, rocks, bottles, fireworks and other items."\nWASHINGTON — Uniformed Secret Service officers made six arrests Friday night after "Justice for George Floyd" protests sparked in the District in the aftermath his killing by a Minneapolis police officer.\nProtests erupted nationwide days after his death calling for the arrests of all the officers involved after a Memorial Day viral video showed Floyd being pinned down by his neck by then-Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin. Floyd, who is repeatedly heard in the video saying he can't breath and asking for the Chauvin to get off his neck, died that day.\nThe Minneapolis mayor on Tuesday fired all four officers involved in the incident. On Friday, Chauvin was arrested and charged with murder and manslaughter in Floyd's death. But the other three officers who were involved in the incident have not yet been arrested or charged, with local prosecutors in Minnesota on Friday saying that charges are likely forthcoming.\nD.C. was among cities across the nation who held protests Friday night demanding the remaining three officers involved in Floyd's death to be arrested and charged.\nSecret Service confirmed that arrests were made on Pennsylvania Avenue, near the White House.\n"Demonstrators repeatedly attempted to knock over security barriers on Pennsylvania Avenue," a Secret Service statement said. "Some of the demonstrators were violent, assaulting Secret Service Officer and Special Agents with bricks, rocks, bottles, fireworks and other items. Multiple Secret Service Uniformed Division Officers and Special Agents suffered injuries from this violence."\nD.C. police and U.S. Park Police were also at the protest on Pennsylvania Avenue, according to the Secret Service. It is unclear what specific roles these departments played in the riots outside the White House.\nPresident Donald Trump took to Twitter Saturday morning to express his thanks to Secret Service for their handling of the crowds outside the White House.\n"Great job last night at the White House by the U.S. @SecretService," the Tweet said. "They were not only totally professional, but very cool. I was inside, watched every move, and couldn’t have felt more safe. They let the 'protesters' scream & rant as much as they wanted, but whenever someone got too frisky or out of line, they would quickly come down on them, hard -- didn’t know what hit them."\nThe president also criticized D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser who, according to the president, would not allow District of Columbia city police to get involved with protecting the White House.\n"On the bad side, the D.C. Mayor, @MurielBowser, who is always looking for money & help, wouldn’t let the D.C. Police get involved," Trump tweeted. "'Not their job.' Nice!"\nBowser responded to the president's tweets, calling for peace and restraint, and emphasizing that DC Police "will always protect DC and all who are in it."}}
{{(Newser) – A judge on Thursday rejected defense requests to move the trial of four former Minneapolis police officers charged in George Floyd's death, and he also ordered that all four will be tried together instead of separately, per the AP. Hennepin County Judge Peter Cahill ruled in another order that the trial can be televised and streamed live from the courtroom. Cahill ruled after defense attorneys argued that pretrial publicity made it impossible for the four men to get a fair trial in Minneapolis. But the judge said he was unpersuaded at the moment that moving the trial would remedy that, and he believes the jury can be protected from outside influences. "No corner of the State of Minnesota has been shielded from pretrial publicity regarding the death of George Floyd," he wrote.\nstory continues below\n"Because of that pervasive media coverage, a change of venue is unlikely to cure the taint of potential prejudicial pretrial publicity." Cahill said he was willing to revisit the issue later if circumstances warrant. Moving the trial away from Minneapolis to a less diverse area of the state also likely would affect the makeup of the jury, though the judge didn't address that issue. In a separate order, the judge said the names of the jurors will be kept confidential. Defense attorneys had also argued that the men should face separate trials, as each has tried to diminish his own role in Floyd’s arrest by pointing fingers at the others. But Cahill rejected that, too, saying the complications of separate trials were too great and that trying the officers together would "ensure that the jury understands ... all of the evidence and the complete picture of Floyd's death."\n(Read more George Floyd stories.)}}
{{Protesters try to break through a police barrier, Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, at the Capitol in Washington. As Congress prepared to affirm President-elect Joe Biden’s victory, thousands of people gathered to show their support for President Donald Trump and others challenging the validity of the Nov. 3 election.}}
{{CNN - business/consumer\nStocks have gained about 13% since Election Day as of Tuesday, a day before Joe Biden’s inauguration — marking the the best post-election market performance for a new president in modern history, according to CFRA Research.\nThe second-biggest surge was from late 1960 to early 1961, when John F. Kennedy defeated Richard Nixon, and the S&P 500 rose 8.8%. The market continued to rally during JFK’s first 100 days in office, rising another 8.9%.\nThe current Biden market surge represents the second time in a row that Wall Street has cheered a new president: Stocks gained more than 6% in the election to inauguration period after Donald Trump beat Hillary Clinton in 2016. The market gained 5% during Trump’s first 100 days as well.\nBut there’s one major difference: Trump was inheriting an economy that was growing at a stable rate during the long, post-Great Recession recovery. Biden is walking into the Covid-19 economy.\nInvestors seem hopeful that Biden, along with a Democrat-controlled House and Senate, will work with Republicans to quickly pass another stimulus bill.\nThe stimulus expectations, combined with the fact that Americans are starting to receive coronavirus vaccinations, has fueled hopes that the economy — and corporate earnings — will improve later this year.\nOil, banks and small cap stocks getting a bigger Biden boost\nTo that end, the energy and financial sectors have been the best performers since the election. Oil companies should benefit from an improving economy and rising crude prices, while banks often do better when there is increased demand for loans.\nSmall cap stocks have also outperformed the S&P 500, a move that makes sense considering that smaller companies have more exposure to the US economy compared to the large multinational firms that dominate the Dow and S&P 500.\nThe Biden boost is also in stark contrast to how stocks performed the previous two instances a new president was coming into power during tumultuous economic times.\nThe S&P 500 fell more than 6% in late 2000 and early 2001 after George W. Bush defeated Al Gore. That election was contested as well, adding to uncertainty that was already present in the market as a result of the dot-com bubble bursting earlier in 2000.\nAnd stocks plummeted nearly 20% from November 2008 through mid-January 2009 after Biden’s former boss Barack Obama defeated the late John McCain. Investors were still extremely nervous about the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the rash of high profile bank failures at the time.\nBut experts say investors need to realize that market performance between the election and the inauguration is not necessarily a harbinger of things to come for the rest of the year.\nCFRA Research chief investment strategist Sam Stovall noted in the report that “the S&P 500 is overdue for a digestion of gains that could push the index value below its 2020 closing level.”\nIn other words, the rest of the year might be bumpy. But any downturns could be brief: Stovall also predicted that any market pullbacks in 2021 will be “set early enough in the year to allow for time to recoup all losses and go on to set even higher highs.”}}
{{I have much less income than before\nI have slightly less income than before the pandemic\nMy income is the same as it was before\nI have slightly more income than before the pandemic\nI have a lot more income than before the pandemic\nVote\nView Results}}
{{By PTI\nWASHINGTON: A Joint Session of the US Congress on Thursday formally certified the electoral victory of Joe Biden as the next US President and Kamala Harris as the Vice President in the November 3 election.\nThe formal certification by the Joint Session came in the wee hours of Thursday. The Joint Session which resumed its meeting late Wednesday night after it was disrupted by hundreds of supporters of incumbent President Donald Trump who violently stormed the Capitol Hill.\nThe counting of Electoral College votes and its subsequent certification came after an ugly episode of violence inside the US Capitol, resulting in four deaths, wherein Capitol Hill was brought under a lockdown, with lawmakers being taken to safe places, shots were fired inside the Congress and tear gas was used. Former US President, Barack Obama, described it as a moment of great dishonor and shame for the United States.\nBiden, 78, and Harris, 56, are scheduled to be sworn in as the President and Vice President of the country on January 20. The inauguration is going to be a low-key affair given the COVID-19 pandemic.\nBiden, a Democrat, described the riots in the US Capitol as an "unprecedented assault" on American democracy, and has his task cut out to spend the next four years on his administration to heal and unite a deeply polarised country after the fiercely-fought election.\nPresidential elections were held on November 3. Biden and Harris won a record number of popular votes, more than 80 millions and earned as many as 306 Electoral College votes.\nTrump, a Republican who has been making unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud, has lost several dozen court cases. On the eve of the meeting of the Joint Session of the Congress, Trump pressurised his Vice President Mike Pence to overturn the results, which he refused.\nTrump fired back by accusing that Pence lacked courage. Addressing thousands of his supporters in the White House he urged his followers to march to the US Capitol. Hundreds of his supporters turned violent. As they reached the Capitol, they took law into their hands, breached the security and disrupted the constitutional process.\nThe Joint Session of the Congress resumed the meeting late Wednesday night which continued till in the wee hours of Thursday wherein the lawmakers across the political aisle united to ensure that the votes are counted and certified. Even then they let the objections of two States – Arizona and Pennsylvania – for the two hours debate each followed by votes.\nThe Senate voted 93-6 to reject the objection to Arizona''s election results, while the House of Representatives rejected it by 303-121 votes.\nThe Senate voted 92-7 to reject the objection to Pennsylvania''s election results, while the House also rejected the objection by 282-138.\nThe four Indian American lawmakers – Ro Khanna, Ami Bera, Raja Krishnamoorthi and Pramila Jayapala – voted against both the objections.\nPence, who had remained loyal to the President during the four years of his presidency but had the courage of defy his boss on Wednesday, said that the violence never wins. Freedom wins.}}
{{MINNEAPOLIS — The jury has reached a verdict in the trial of former Minneapolis Police Officer Derek Chauvin, who is charged with murder and manslaughter in the death of George Floyd.\nThe verdict will be read in open court between 3:30 p.m. and 4 p.m. local time.\nThe panel of seven women and five men began deliberating Monday after three weeks of witness testimony.\nChauvin is charged with second- and third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter. The third-degree murder charge had initially been dismissed, but it was reinstated after an appeals court ruling in an unrelated case established new grounds for it days before jury selection started.\nSecond-degree murder carries a maximum sentence of 40 years. Third-degree murder carries a maximum sentence of 25 years. Second-degree manslaughter is punishable by up to 10 years.\nChauvin, who is white, knelt on Floyd's neck for several minutes as Floyd, who was Black, was handcuffed and lying on the ground.\nProsecutors argued that Chauvin's actions caused Floyd to die from low oxygen, or asphyxia. The defense claimed that Floyd's illegal drug use and a pre-existing heart condition were to blame and urged jurors not to rule out other theories, as well, including exposure to carbon monoxide.\nDuring closing arguments, prosecutors sought to focus jurors' attention on the 9 minutes, 29 seconds they say Chauvin knelt on Floyd's neck, while Chauvin's defense attorney told them that "the 9 minutes and 29 seconds ignores the previous 16 minutes and 59 seconds" of the interaction.\nProsecutors called 38 witnesses, including the teenager who recorded the widely seen bystander video that brought global attention to Floyd's death. She and other bystanders who testified said they are haunted by Floyd's death and that they wish they had done more to try to save his life. The defense called seven witnesses, two of whom were experts.\nChauvin had agreed to plead guilty to third-degree murder days after Floyd's death, but William Barr, then the U.S. attorney general, rejected the deal because, officials said, he was worried that it was too early in the investigation and that it would be perceived as too lenient.\nFloyd's death touched off international protests against police brutality and racial injustice. The city of Minneapolis has spent months preparing for the trial and for the potential of unrest over the verdict.}}
{{HOUSTON, Texas (KETK) – Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner, Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee and others speak on the death of George Lloyd, a native of Houston.\nFloyd’s death while in the custody of Minneapolis police officers has set off nationwide protests and rioting.}}
{{HOUSTON (Reuters) - Dexter Faircloth stalked the streets of Houston’s Third Ward, the historic Black neighborhood where he was born and raised, shouting greetings and asking an urgent question.\nA woman decorates her car at an event encouraging community members to vote in the upcoming presidential election at an early voting site in Houston, Texas, U.S., October 25, 2020. Picture taken October 25, 2020. REUTERS/Callaghan O'Hare\n“Y’all vote?! Did you?” Faircloth, 35, hollered repeatedly at people, who smiled when they recognized him as he canvassed the area last weekend.\nFaircloth, a corporate trainer, says he has always been an advocate for his community. But that role became more urgent when his friend and Third Ward native, African-American George Floyd, died in May after a white Minneapolis police knelt on his neck for nearly nine minutes.\nThe summer’s simmering anger and demands for justice that Floyd’s death ignited have transformed into huge voter turnout for Black Americans in some parts of the country. That is especially true of the Third Ward, where hopes for change have energized many in the final days of the race between President Donald Trump, a Republican, and Democratic rival Joe Biden.\nEarly voting at the Third Ward’s three polling stations is up more than 650% compared to 2016 figures, according to data from the Harris County Clerk’s Office.\n“Look, man. Voting is not the end-all-be-all. It’s just the start,” Faircloth said. “But we’re telling people: ‘If you want change, this is how you begin to change things.’”\nThe Third Ward, a patchwork of old wooden homes, bodegas and barber shops with hand-painted storefronts less than a mile from downtown Houston’s skyscrapers, houses some of the city’s crown jewels for African-American culture, including Texas Southern University.\nFloyd, who played college football and basketball, was a mentor to neighborhood boys and encouraged them with his optimism, Faircloth recalls. Third Ward residents were enraged by the brutal manner in which Floyd died, which was captured on video by a bystander.\n“Seeing that video was almost as if we were watching slaves being beaten in real life,” Faircloth said. “Instead of whips, the weapons were a knee and a badge.”\nSlideshow ( 4 images )\nThird Ward residents who knew Floyd best marched daily, as Black Lives Matter protests spread across the globe. In Houston, they were joined by Police Chief Art Acevedo, who told Reuters he remembers Faircloth and other young Black leaders from the Third Ward helping maintain the peace during protests.\nFloyd’s death was a tragic reminder that policing is not where it should be, Acevedo said. He recalls telling Third Ward residents, and others in Houston, that there’s not just one way to fix that problem. “We told people that it’s really important that they not just take to the streets, but that they take to the polls during the election,” he said.\n“VOTING FOR GEORGE”\nVoters who Reuters spoke to in the Third Ward and nearby said they emerged from this summer’s protests not just more politically active, but also confident they can make their voices heard.\n“It feels like we’re in a new Civil Rights era,” said J.D. Fontenot, a pharmacy student at Texas Southern University.\nThe world he and other young minorities are beginning to help shape feels like a mirror image of the days of Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X, he said, and voting is a first step.\n“The fact that our vote is directly linked to Black people’s freedom in America is on the minds of people right now,” Fontenot said.\nSo is tension between Blacks and whites.\n“The racial injustice we are seeing right now, which had been subliminal but now spews forth in the open, is making it clear to the Black community that we have to come out and vote,” said daycare worker Veronica McClendon, 53, who was born and raised in the nearby Fifth Ward.\nFaircloth and two other members of the Alpha Phi Alpha Black fraternity - Carlos Pinkerton and Sheldon Hadnot - canvassed door-to-door in the Third Ward last weekend.\nWhen they spotted Arnetta Taylor outside her home, they wouldn’t take no for an answer. Dispelling her concerns about a missing voter registration card, they explained other forms of ID she could use and got her commitment to go to the polls.\n“Take my number and call me on Monday to make sure I voted! I’m 46-years-old and I’ve never voted in my life, but I will now,” Taylor said.\nShe was clear about her motivation.\n“We’re voting for George,” she said. “We’re voting for Breonna Taylor, too. We’re voting for a lot of Black people that have been killed in this way.”}}
{{MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Jury selection begins Monday for a former Minneapolis police officer charged with murder and manslaughter in George Floyd’s death. Derek Chauvin’s trial, which is expected to last weeks, will be overseen by an experienced judge and argued by skilled attorneys on both sides. It will be streamed online for the world to see because the COVID-19 pandemic has limited who can attend.\nFloyd, who was Black, died May 25 after Chauvin, who is white, pressed his knee on Floyd’s neck while Floyd was handcuffed and pleading that he couldn’t breathe. Among the key figures and elements at trial:\nCOVID-19, CAMERAS and COURT SECURITY\nChauvin’s trial, one of the highest-profile criminal cases in Minnesota history, is taking place during a global pandemic that has had a dramatic impact. Precautions to guard against the spread of COVID-19 have limited courtroom space, leading the judge to try Chauvin ahead of three other fired officers charged with aiding and abetting.\nAnd because the pandemic all but wiped out the possibility of public seating, the judge is allowing the trial to be broadcast and livestreamed — a rare occurrence in a state that doesn’t routinely allow cameras in court.\nCity, county and state officials are preparing for any sort of reaction that trial testimony or a verdict might elicit. Barbed and razor wire and concrete barriers surround the courthouse, and strict security is in place to protect trial proceedings. City and state leaders want to avoid a repeat of last year’s rioting that destroyed dozens of businesses and a police station.\nTHE JUDGE\nHennepin County Judge Peter Cahill is respected and has a reputation as a no-nonsense, fair judge. He started in the county public defender’s office in 1984 and worked for 10 years as a prosecutor, serving as top advisor to U.S. Sen. Amy Klobuchar when she was the county’s head prosecutor.\nCahill has been a judge since 2007 and has been chief judge. He’s known for being decisive and direct. He held firm on his decision to allow video cameras at the trial over the state’s objections, and to starting the trial in March despite prosecutors’ concerns about the pandemic. He also refused to reinstate a third-degree murder charge, sending prosecutors to the Court of Appeals — which ruled Friday that he must reconsider that decision — and denied defense requests to move the trial out of Hennepin County.\nPROSECUTION\nDays after Floyd’s death, Minnesota’s governor announced that Attorney General Keith Ellison would take the lead on prosecuting the case. The county prosecutor’s office is still part of the case, but the unusual move was a win for local civil rights advocates who said longtime Hennepin County Attorney Mike Freeman didn’t have the trust of the Black community.\nEllison, the state’s first African American elected attorney general, previously served in Congress and worked as a defense attorney.\nHis team of prosecutors includes Matthew Frank, an experienced attorney in Ellison’s office who recently won a guilty plea in the case of Lois Riess, a Minnesota woman who got life in prison without parole for killing her husband in 2018. Riess became notorious after she fled the state, killed a woman in Florida, and assumed her identity before she was captured.\nAlso on board are: Jerry Blackwell, who last year won a posthumous pardon for a Black man wrongly convicted of rape before the infamous Duluth lynchings of 1920; and Steven Schleicher, a former federal prosecutor who led prosecution of the man who kidnapped and killed Jacob Wetterling in 1989.\nDEFENSE\nChauvin, 44, started working for the Minneapolis Police Department in 2001, making him by far the most experienced of the four officers involved in Floyd’s arrest.\nHe was fired soon after bystander video of Floyd’s arrest emerged the following day. He was charged days later, and moved to a state prison for security reasons. He posted $1 million bond in October and was allowed to live out of state due to safety concerns.\nHis attorney, Eric Nelson, is among a handful of attorneys in Minnesota who often represent police officers. One of his bigger cases involved Amy Senser, the wife of former Minnesota Vikings tight end Joe Senser, who was convicted in the 2011 hit-and-run death of a Minneapolis chef. Nelson argued that Senser should be sentenced to probation, but a judge gave her 41 months in prison.\nNelson also has tried murder cases. He helped win an acquittal for a Minnesota man who was charged with fatally shooting his unarmed neighbor in 2017. He also won an acquittal for a Wisconsin man who testified that he feared for his safety when he fatally stabbed a man who confronted him in 2015.\nNelson has not said whether Chauvin will testify during his trial, but many legal observers predict Chauvin will take the stand.\nGEORGE FLOYD\nFloyd, 46, moved to Minneapolis from Houston several years before his death in hopes of finding work but had lost his job as a restaurant bouncer due to COVID-19. On May 25, an employee at a Minneapolis grocery store called the police saying Floyd tried to pass a counterfeit $20 bill.\nFloyd left behind a young daughter, who lives with her mother in Houston. His friend Christopher Harris told The Associated Press last year that Floyd “was looking to start over fresh, a new beginning.”\nTHE JURY\nChauvin’s fate will be decided by 12 Hennepin County residents, whose names will be kept confidential until further court order. Two alternate jurors will be selected to listen to testimony, but will not be part of deliberations unless needed.\nProspective jurors were sent questionnaires to determine how much they have heard about the case and whether they had formed any opinions. Prosecutors can block up to nine potential jurors without giving a reason, while the defense will be allowed up to 15 objections, with no reason given.\nLegal experts say since pretrial publicity has been so pervasive, both sides will seek jurors who are willing to have open minds.\n“You don’t want jurors who are completely blank slates, because that would mean they’re not in tune at all with the world,” Susan Gaertner, a former prosecutor, said in a recent interview. “But what you want is jurors who can set aside opinions that have formed prior to walking into the courtroom and give both sides a fair hearing.”}}
{{EMBED >More News Videos President Donald Trump is heard on tape pleading with Georgia's election chief to overturn Joe Biden's win in the state.\nATLANTA, Georgia -- Georgians cast high-stakes final votes Tuesday in elections to determine the balance of power in the new Congress, deciding Senate runoff elections sure to shape President-elect Joe Biden's ability to enact what could be the most progressive governing agenda in generations.Republicans are unified against Biden's plans for health care, environmental protection and civil rights, but some have feared that outgoing President Donald Trump's brazen attempts to undermine the integrity of the nation's voting systems might discourage voters in Georgia.State election officials reported light turnout Tuesday morning, including in the deeply conservative northwest region where Trump held a rally Monday night to encourage GOP voters to turn out in force. Wait times at polling sites were "almost nonexistent," averaging about one minute statewide, said Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger.More than 3 million Georgians had voted early, either by mail or during in-person voting in December. The robust early turnout was expected to benefit Democrats, as it helped Biden in November become the first Democratic presidential candidate to win Georgia since 1992."This is history unfolding in Georgia right now," Jon Ossoff, one of Georgia's two Democratic challengers, told reporters outside an Atlanta polling site.Republicans were counting on a big turnout Tuesday to boost their chances."You've got to swarm it tomorrow," Trump told thousands of cheering supporters Monday night, downplaying the threat of fraud even as he repeatedly declared that the state's November elections were plagued by cheating that Republican officials, including his former attorney general and Georgia's elections chief, say did not occur.Democrats must win both of the state's Senate elections to gain the Senate majority. In that scenario, the Senate would be equally divided 50-50 with Vice President-elect Kamala Harris serving as the tie-breaker for Democrats.The Democrats secured a narrow House majority and the White House during November's general election.Georgia's January elections, necessary because no Senate candidates received a majority of the general-election votes, have been unique for many reasons, not least because the contenders essentially ran as teams.One contest featured Democrat Raphael Warnock, who serves as the senior pastor of the Atlanta church where Martin Luther King Jr. preached. The 51-year-old Warnock was raised in public housing and spent most of his adult life preaching in Baptist churches.Warnock was facing Republican Sen. Kelly Loeffler, a 50-year-old former businesswoman who was appointed to the Senate a year ago by the state's Republican governor. She is only the second woman to represent Georgia in the Senate, although race has emerged as more of a campaign focus. Loeffler and her allies have seized on snippets of Warnock's sermons at the historic Black church to cast him as extreme. Dozens of religious and civil rights leaders have pushed back.The other election pitted 71-year-old former business executive David Perdue, who held the Senate seat until his term officially expired on Sunday, against Democrat Ossoff, a former congressional aide and journalist. At just 33 years old, Ossoff would be the Senate's youngest member if elected. He first rose to national prominence in 2017 during an unsuccessful House special election bid.Even a closely divided Democratic Senate wouldn't guarantee Biden everything he wants, given chamber rules that require 60 votes to move most major legislation. But if Democrats lose even one of Tuesday's contests, Biden would have little shot for swift up-or-down votes on his most ambitious plans to expand government-backed health care coverage, address racial inequality and combat climate change. A Republican-controlled Senate also would create a rougher path for Biden's Cabinet picks and judicial nominees."Georgia, the whole nation is looking to you," Biden declared at his own rally in Atlanta on Monday. "The power is literally in your hands."Despite fears among some Republicans that Trump's baseless claims of voter fraud could depress turnout, the two GOP candidates strongly support him. Perdue on Tuesday said that Trump would "of course" deserve credit if the Republicans won."What the president said last night is, even if you are upset about all of that, you've got to stand up with us and fight," Perdue told "Fox & Friends." "We'll look back on this day if we don't vote and really rue the day that we turned the keys to the kingdom over to the Democrats."Loeffler has pledged to join a small but growing number of GOP senators protesting Congress' expected certification of Biden's victory Wednesday."We have to get to the bottom of what happened in this election," Loeffler told reporters while campaigning in the Atlanta suburb of Sandy Springs. "There are too many unresolved, open investigations."Warnock accused Loeffler of "aiding and abetting" Trump's efforts to overturn his election loss."She wants to spend her time trying to take your voice," Warnock told supporters in suburban Marietta north of Atlanta. "We know Joe Biden won Georgia. How many times do we have to count the votes? So what we need now is to get him help."Democrats have hammered Perdue and Loeffler, each among the Senate's wealthiest members, for personal stock trades made after members of Congress received information about the emerging threats of COVID-19 as Trump and Republicans downplayed the pandemic. None of the trades has been found to violate the law or Senate ethics rules, but Warnock and Ossoff have cast the Republicans as self-interested and out of touch.Perdue and Loeffler have answered by lambasting the Democrats as certain to to usher in a leftward lunge in national policy. Neither Warnock nor Ossoff is a socialist, as Republicans allege. They do, however, support Biden's agenda.The Georgia runoffs mark the formal finale to the turbulent 2020 election season and have drawn nearly $500 million in campaign spending to a once solidly Republican state that's now a battleground. The outcome will help demonstrate whether the political coalition that fueled Biden's victory was an anti-Trump anomaly or part of a new landscape.Biden won Georgia's 16 electoral votes by about 12,000 votes out of 5 million cast in November.Democratic success will likely depend on a huge turnout among African Americans, young voters, college-educated voters and women, all groups that helped Biden win Georgia. Republicans have focused on energizing their own base of white men and voters beyond the core of metro Atlanta.In downtown Atlanta, Henry Dave Chambliss, 67, voted for the two Republicans. He said he wants Republicans to keep Senate control to ensure the incoming Biden administration doesn't slide "all the way to the left.""I'm moderately successful and I know they will come after more of my money which I've earned," Chambliss said. "I was born a Southern Democrat, and I just hope and pray that some moderate voices are heard and things stay more in the middle of the road."Beverly McDaniel cast her ballot Tuesday morning amid light turnout at a neighborhood center's gymnasium in Atlanta. She voted for both Democrats, saying she believes they would do better dealing with the hardships wrought by the coronavirus."Our kids are not fully, fully in school like they're supposed to be and people don't have jobs," said McDaniel, a medical field worker. She said the virus "is taking over where we should have the government taking over instead."}}
{{The video will start in 8 Cancel\nDive right in! Like the weather, the Daily Star's FREE newsletter is a scorcher Sign up today! Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email\nA priest was caught on camera fleeing for cover moment as his church was hit by the explosion in Beirut on Tuesday.\nThe cleric was conducting a mass through a live-stream inside the Maronite Catholic Archeparchy of Antelias in Bauchrieh, a Christian community three miles from where the devastating blast sent shockwaves across the capital city in Lebanon.\nFootage shared on to Facebook shows the priest pacing around the front of the hall while chanting and holding a charm with burning incense.\nFor a short moment, the hall plunges into darkness as the wall of the church shakes, killing all the lights.\nAs he carries on the mass, the roof suddenly collapses and the concrete falls onto the altar.\n(Image: Reuters)\nThe priest runs in terror and exits the hall to safety.\nThe camera is knocked off by the rubble and fell aside on the floor, failing to show the severity of the damage.\nIt released a statement on its website later, stating the priest and the parishioners present at the church were injured but already received treatment.\n(Image: Reuters)\nAt least 100 people dead and thousands injured as the blast started at a port warehouse shortly after 6pm (3pm UK time) yesterday.\nThe impact, with the force of a 3.5 magnitude earthquake, was heard and felt as far away as Cyprus, more than 180 miles across the Mediterranean.\nIt's believed the blast started at a port warehouse storing highly explosive material.\n(Image: AFP via Getty Images)\nPresident Michel Aoun said 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate, used in fertilisers and bombs, had been stored for six years at the port without safety measures, and he said that was "unacceptable".\nPrime Minister Hassan Diab promised there would be accountability for the deadly blast at the "dangerous warehouse", adding "those responsible will pay the price."\nRescuers continue to dig through the rubble looking for survivors.\nPrime Minister Boris Johnson last night confirmed British nationals are among those caught up in the aftermath of a huge blast.\n"The pictures and videos from Beirut are shocking," he said.\n"All of my thoughts and prayers are with those caught up in this terrible incident.\n"The UK is ready to provide support in any way we can, including to those British nationals affected."}}
{{The two adults and two juveniles arrested were not associated with the coordinators of the Black Lives Matter 757 group, police said in a news release.\nHAMPTON, Va. — Hampton Police Division said four people were arrested during the Black Lives Matter protest in the city Friday night.\nThe two adults and two juveniles arrested were not associated with the coordinators of the Black Lives Matter 757 group, police said in a news release.\nThe four individuals are charged with Assault on Law Enforcement and Disorderly Conduct.\nHampton police said the crowd split into two groups during the protest.\n"One group comprised of Black Lives Matter 757 coordinators made its way back to the Peninsula Town Center and dispersed peacefully. It was clear their plan was a peaceful protest," officials said in the news release. "The second group remained in the area of W. Mercury Boulevard. That crowd confronted officers in the Lidl parking lot who had repositioned to that area for security, and the demonstrators physically blocked traffic in both directions on W. Mercury Boulevard."\nPolice said the group was instructed to disperse but the crowd refused to comply. Some began to throw items at officers on the scene.\nVirginia State Police and Hampton police were on scene and the Newport News Police Department responded as part of pre-planned mutual aid assistance.\nPolice said the situation was resolved around 2:26 a.m. when the remainder of the group dispersed.\nHampton police said in its news release: "While the Hampton Police Division supports the right to peaceful protest, demonstrations that insight violence and mayhem cannot and will not be tolerated in our society and in particular our City. HPD remains committed to work with our citizens, community and faith-based leaders to strengthen relationships, resolve social injustices, and to build trust through valued partnerships."}}
{{Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Britain stood ready to provide any support it could to help Beirut after a massive explosion in the city's port area killed 25 people and injured more than 2,500.\n"The pictures and videos from Beirut tonight are shocking," Johnson wrote on Twitter. "All of my thoughts and prayers are with those caught up in this terrible incident.\n"The UK is ready to provide support in any way we can, including to those British nationals affected."}}
{{Michelle Obama has spoken out against the killing of George Floyd, saying she is 'exhausted' by the racist attacks on black people in America, while calling on everyone to do their part in 'rooting it out.'\nThe former first lady shared an Instagram post on Friday saying she was 'pained' by the recent string of tragedies in the black community and the 'heartbreak that never seems to stop.'\n'Right now it's George, Breonna, and Ahmaud. Before that it was Eric [Garner] Sandra [Bland] and Michael [Brown]. It just goes on, and on, and on,' she said.\n'Race and racism is a reality that so many of us grow up learning to just deal with. But if we ever hope to move past it, it can't just be on people of color to deal with it.\nMichelle Obama said it's up to 'all of us - black, white, everyone' do their part in rooting out racism in America\nThe former first lady spoke out against George Floyd's killing by cops in an Instagram post on Friday\nObama referenced the recent killings of Ahmaud Arbery (left) a 25-year-old black man who was shot dead by two white men in Georgia earlier this month, and Breonna Taylor, a 26-year-old woman fatally shot by cops in Louisville in March\n'It's up to all of us—Black, white, everyone—no matter how well-meaning we think we might be, to do the honest, uncomfortable work of rooting it out.'\nObama urged Americans to start with 'self-examination' and to listen to people who are from different walks of life.\n'It ends with justice, compassion, and empathy that manifests in our lives and on our streets. I pray we all have the strength for that journey, just as I pray for the souls and the families of those who were taken from us,' she added.\nIncluded in the post were illustrations of Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, and Breonna Taylor painted by artist Nikkolas Smith.\nFloyd's death has reignited tensions between law enforcement and the black community in the US after a white Minneapolis cop Derek Chauvin was filmed kneeling on the 46-year-old's neck until he passed out and later died.\nHis killing followed that of Ahmaud Arbery, a 25-year-old unarmed black man who was shot dead by two white men in Georgia earlier this month, and Breonna Taylor, a 26-year-old black woman who was fatally shot by Louisville cops in March.\nProtesters gathered in front of the Third Police Precinct which had to be evacuated by police after it was torched\nBarack Obama has spoken out against the killing of George Floyd in Minnesota, insisting that racially-targeted killings in the United States 'cannot be "normal" in 2020' and calling on Americans to work for a better future\nMy statement on the death of George Floyd: pic.twitter.com/Hg1k9JHT6R — Barack Obama (@BarackObama) May 29, 2020\nObama's post comes after her husband and former president Barack Obama called on Minnesota authorities to ensure Floyd's death is 'investigated thoroughly.'\nIn a statement released on Twitter on Friday he said: 'This shouldn't be "normal" in 2020 America. It can't be "normal".\n'If we want our children to grow up in a nation that lives up to its highest ideals, we can and must be better.'\nViolent protests and riots over Floyd's death broke out across the US on Friday night with the CNN headquarters under siege in Atlanta, New York police officers fending off rioters from a police precinct in Brooklyn, and the White House forced to go into lockdown as demonstrators tried to scale the walls.\nProtests escalated in Louisville, Kentucky as people demanded justice for Taylor, which left seven people shot on Thursday.\nCrowds took to the streets again on Friday night after former officer Derek Chauvin was arrested and charged with murder.}}
{{BEIRUT (AP) — The massive explosion and devastation triggered by thousands of tons of chemicals improperly stored in Beirut’s port is the culmination of decades of corruption that has driven one of the Middle East's most spirited countries to ruin.\nThe staggering destruction, with losses in the billions of dollars, will compound Lebanon’s multiple humanitarian catastrophes. Its people are seething with rage as they are pushed into even more poverty and despair by an accident that appears to have been completely avoidable.\nBut it remains to be seen whether it will serve as the long-awaited catalyst to dislodge an entrenched political class responsible for years of graft and mismanagement. Even if it does end up being the spark for change, it will likely take years of instability and unrest, spurred by dismal economic conditions, to get there.\nLebanon’s rulers, many of them warlords and militia holdovers from the days of the 1975-90 civil war, have proven to be extremely resilient. They hang on to their seats from one election to the next, largely because of the country’s sectarian power-sharing system and an antiquated electoral law that allows them to behave with virtual impunity while guaranteeing their political survival.\nThe Lebanese people rose up many times before, including 15 years ago when former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri was assassinated in a truck bombing; in 2015's “You Stink” protest movement during the garbage-collection crisis; and most recently in October, at the onset of the economic crisis. Each time, they eventually became disillusioned and beset by divisions as political parties hijacked and co-opted their protests.\nFawaz Gerges, professor of Middle Eastern politics at the London School of Economics, said the interests of Lebanon's politicians were far too deeply entrenched in the system.\n“Even though historically speaking, such national catastrophes or ruptures serve as a catalyst for transformative change, I am deeply skeptical about the governing and ruling elite in Lebanon instituting change on their own. This is delusional,” he said.\nSome say this time could -- and should — be different.\nThe gigantic explosion that ripped through Beirut on Tuesday was the apparent result of an accident that ignited 2,750 tons of an ammonium nitrate stockpile that had been stored for six years in a seaside warehouse, apparently with the knowledge of port officials as well as political and judicial authorities. More than 135 people were killed and more than 5,000 injured. Many are still missing and around quarter of a million people are now without homes.\nAs the nation mourned, a collective feeling has taken hold that this time, its leaders must be held accountable for committing a crime and rendering the capital unlivable. On Thursday, the shock gave way to fury as Beirut residents realized the full scale of the disaster and scattered protests erupted.\n“Hang them from the gallows in the streets,” someone etched in the layer of pulverized debris covering a wrecked car in a devastated street.\nThe pent-up emotions erupted when French President Emmanuel Macron came to Lebanon to show support, visiting the epicenter of the blast and then touring some of the worst hit neighborhoods. He was quickly accosted by anxious and emotional residents pleading with him to help free the nation from its rulers. France is the former colonial power in Lebanon and maintains historically good ties with the country.\nMacron made it a point to say he was not here to support Lebanese leaders and would make sure that any assistance from France would go to the people. He reiterated that no financial assistance would be given to the government to help ease a deepening financial crisis without substantial reforms.\n“There is a need to create a new political order in Lebanon,” Macron said after meeting with political leaders, calling for a complete overhaul of the system and urgent reforms in all sectors.\nHe did not address the steep challenges of doing this in a broken and divided country that's nearly bankrupt as a result of an unprecedented financial and economic crisis along with the coronavirus pandemic. At this point, the state is barely able to provide any electricity, collect garbage or provide basic security and food needs.\nThe scale of the national destruction is sure to further weaken Prime Minister Hassan Diab’s government. It has struggled to implement any significant reforms since coming to power in January because of a lack of will on the part of political parties in ending the corruption from which they profit.\nHe has assigned an investigative committee that he said should submit its findings within a few days. But it is highly unlikely that any senior leaders will be punished. Instead, officials were shifting blame about who was responsible for the catastrophe.\n“What was destroyed in 15 years of war, was re-destroyed in one second,” said Tony Sawaya, who heads an insurance brokerage firm. He had little to no hope that anything would change.\n“Nothing will change. It will be business as usual,” he said, adding that all corrupt politicians are supported by their followers and the international community.\nOthers have called for a resumption of the “thawra” — Arabic for revolution.\nGerges said the main question is whether the Lebanese people will collectively rise up and say “enough is enough,” which would mean implementing a new electoral process, a new government and a new system of governance.\nAll those raise massive challenges.\nSustained mass protests must continue, Gerges said, even if it takes years to force out the elites and change the system.\n“It’s a choice between death, or renewal through struggle,” he said.\n—-\nEDITOR’S NOTE: Zeina Karam, the news director for Lebanon, Syria and Iraq, has covered the Middle East since 1996. Follow her on Twitter at www.twitter.com/zkaram.}}
{{Minneapolis has agreed to ban the use of police chokeholds and will require nearby officers to act to stop them in the wake of George Floyd's death, AP reports.\nWhy it matters: The agreement between the city and the Minnesota Department of Human Rights, which has launched an investigation into Floyd's death while in police custody, will be enforceable in court.}}
{{DUBAI: An Italian jewelry house has pledged to donate all of its profits from the sale of a new ring to the victims of the Beirut blast.\nBosses at Repossi said 100 percent of takings from its Berbere Chromatic ring, which retails at around $3,438, would go toward helping those left homeless by the deadly explosion at the Lebanese port.\nWriting to its 224,000 Instagram followers, the brand said: “In response to the tragic event in Beirut, Lebanon, Repossi unveils the new Berbere Chromatic ring. All profits from the sale of this ring will be donated to the Lebanese Red Cross.”\nFounded in 1945, the humanitarian organization has been on the frontline providing emergency medical aid to victims of the massive blast.\nMeanwhile, celebrities such as Kylie Jenner, DJ Khaled, and singer Dua Lipa, have been taking to social media to show their support for victims and online influencers around the world have been urging their followers to make donations toward rescue and recovery work.}}
{{Bet_Noire/iStockBy LIBBY CATHEY and CATHERINE THORBECKE, ABC News\n(WASHINGTON) — President Donald Trump is slated to hand over control of the White House to President-elect Joe Biden in 14 days.\nHere is how the transition is unfolding. All times Eastern:\nJan 06, 1:20 pm\nJoint session of Congress to affirm Biden’s win underway\nThe joint session of Congress to confirm the Electoral College vote won by Biden is underway.\nWhat’s usually a short, ceremonial event is expected to turn into a marathon affair. However, the end result will be the same — Biden will still be the next president, set to be inaugurated in just two weeks.\nVice President Pence is the presiding officer and in an uncomfortable situation as most legal experts agree he does not have the constitutional authority to object to Electoral College vote counting yet President Trump — down Pennsylvania Avenue at a “Save America” rally — demanded Pence “have the courage” to intervene, Trump saying he will be “very disappointed” if he doesn’t.\nMoments before the session began, Pence released a statement through the White House making clear he does not believe he has the authority to intervene in the election\n“It is my considered judgment that my oath to support and defend the Constitution contains me from claiming unilateral authority to determine which electoral votes should be counted and which should not,” Pence said.\nThe Vice President’s job is to go through ceremonial mahogany boxes full of the votes from the states, ticking off each one alphabetically — but this year, it won’t be long until a senator objects.\nWhen Pence gets to Arizona, Republican Sen. Ted Cruz, a Trump loyalist, is expected to object, thus launching up to two hours of debate in each chamber. Thirteen senators and as many as 140 House Republicans have said they will make objections in the process, but it’s still unclear how many states will be challenged. Republican Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri has said he’ll object regarding Pennsylvania. Hawley has also said he does not believe Pence has the ability to not accept the electoral certification.\nJan 06, 12:45 pm\nTrump ramps up pressure on Pence minutes before Congress meets to count electoral votes\nTrump, speaking at the Ellipse, just outside the White House grounds, before thousands of supporters Wednesday, repeated he will “never concede” — and ramped up pressure on Vice President Mike Pence to try to overturn the outcome at a joint session of Congress just minutes away — which Pence cannot do.\n“We will never give up. We will never concede,” Trump said from behind plexiglass to chants of “Fight for Trump.”\n“All Vice President Pence has to do is send it back to the states to re-certify, and we become president, and you are the happiest people,” Trump said, teasing the 1 p.m. joint session of Congress to formally count the Electoral College votes.\n“And Mike Pence is going to have to come through for us, and if he doesn’t, that will be a sad day for our country,” Trump added.\nTrump said he would lead the crowd of supporters to the Capitol Building following his remarks.\n“And we’re going to cheer on our brave senators and congressmen and women. And we’re probably not going to be cheering so much for some of them. Because you’ll never take back our country with weakness,” he said.\n“We’re going to see whether or not we have great and courageous leaders, or whether or not we have leaders that should be ashamed of themselves throughout history — throughout eternity. They’ll be ashamed. And you know what? If they do the wrong thing, we should never, ever forget that they did. Never forget. We should never, ever forget,” Trump said.\n“We got to remember, in a year from now, you’re going to start working on Congress, and we’ve got to get rid of the weak congresspeople. The ones that aren’t any good. The Liz Cheneys of the world,” he went on.\n“Mike Pence, I hope you’re going to stand up for the good of our Constitution and for the good of our country. And if you’re not, I’m going to be very disappointed in you.”\nJan 06, 10:22 am\nShowdown looms in Congress as GOP members ready challenge to Biden’s win\nAs Congress convenes for a joint session Wednesday to ratify the Electoral College vote confirming Biden’s win, a historic showdown looms large as a handful of Republican lawmakers have said they will challenge Biden’s win.\nMore than 100 GOP lawmakers in the House and at least a dozen in the Senate are expected to join with President Trump in a last-ditch effort to challenge his election loss.\nDemocrats are calling this an unprecedented attack on American democracy, upending what is traditionally a solemn and relatively routine process of counting the certified electoral votes from each states.\nThe Republican lawmakers’ complaints, however, are not expected to shift the final outcome.\nThe joint session convenes at 1 p.m. ET.\nJan 06, 10:13 am\nHawley does not believe Pence has authority to oppose election certification\nSen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., one of the 13 Republicans who plan to launch objections to the electoral ratification Wednesday afternoon, said on Fox during an interview with Laura Ingram Tuesday night that he does not believe Vice President Pence has the ability to not accept the electoral vote count.\nPence does not have the ability to overturn the election, despite tweets to the contrary from the president.\n“I don’t think the Vice President counts under the law,” Hawley said. “I mean, he’s sort of just there.”\nHawley is a close ally of Trump but broke with the president on this issue.\n“This is really on Congress,” Hawley said. “This is why it’s important to object and why I intend to object.”\nJan 06, 9:46 am\nTrump continues to pressure Pence ahead of joint session on electoral votes\nIn his first tweet of the morning, President Donald Trump continued Wednesday to pressure Vice President Mike Pence to overturn the election — which Pence cannot do.\nTrump continued to peddle his false claims of election fraud, telling Pence, “Do it Mike, this is a time for extreme courage!”\nMeanwhile, the nation’s capital is bracing for protests as Trump supporters convene for a rally in Washington, D.C.\nTrump is expected to speak at 11 a.m. at what’s being called a “Save America Rally” from the Ellipse park just beside the White House.\nAlso Wednesday, a showdown looms in Congress as a handful of Republican lawmakers prepare to challenge Biden’s win.\nCopyright © 2021, ABC Audio. All rights reserved.}}
{{Watch: Beirut blast caught on camera The moment of the huge Beirut explosion was caught on camera by social media users. Arutz Sheva ,\nKARIM SOKHN / REUTERS Moment of explosion\ntop}}
{{Bassem Mroue, The Associated Press\nBEIRUT - A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the port, damaging buildings and blowing out windows and doors across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. There were hundreds of casualties, with bodies buried under the rubble, officials said.\nThe number of dead was not immediately known, but hours later, ambulances were still carrying away the wounded and officials said Beirut 's hospitals were full. Army helicopters helped battle fires raging at the port.\nThe cause of the blast was not immediately known.\nAbbas Ibrahim, chief of Lebanese General Security, said it might have been caused by highly explosive material that was confiscated from a ship some time ago and stored at the port. Local television channel LBC said the material was sodium nitrate.\nAn Israeli government official said Israel “had nothing to do” with the blast. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter with the media. Israeli officials usually do not comment on “foreign reports.”\nThe blast was stunning even for a city that has seen civil war, suicide bombings and bombardment by Israel. It could be heard and felt as far away as Cyprus, more than 200 kilometres (180 miles) across the Mediterranean.\n“It was a real horror show. I haven't seen anything like that since the days of the (civil) war,” said Marwan Ramadan, who was about 500 metres (yards) from the port and was knocked off his feet by the force of the explosion.\nEmergency teams streamed in from across Lebanon to help a health care system already strained by the coronavirus. Red Cross official Georges Kettaneh said the injured were being taken to hospitals outside the capital because facilities there were at capacity. He put the number of casualties in the hundreds but said he did not have exact figures on dead or injured.\nSome of those injured lay on the ground at the port, Associated Press staff at the scene said. A civil defence official said there were still bodies inside the port, many of them under debris.\nWitnesses reported seeing a strange orange-colored cloud over the site after the explosion. Orange clouds of toxic nitrogen dioxide gas often accompany an explosion involving nitrates.\nInitially, video taken by residents showed a fire raging at the port, sending up a giant column of smoke, illuminated by flashes of what appear to be fireworks. Local TV stations reported that a fireworks warehouse was involved.\nThe fire then appeared to catch at a nearby building, triggering a more massive explosion, sending up a mushroom cloud and a shock wave.\nCharbel Haj, who works at the port, said it started as small explosions like firecrackers. Then, he said, he was thrown off his feet by the huge blast. His clothes were torn.\nMiles from the port, building facades were shredded, balconies were knocked down and windows shattered. Streets were covered with glass and bricks and lined with wrecked cars. Motorcyclists picked their way through traffic, carrying the injured.\nOne woman covered in blood from the waist up walked down a trashed street while talking furiously on her phone. On another street, a woman with a bloodied face looked distraught, staggering through traffic with two friends at her side.\n“This country is cursed,” a young man passing by muttered.\nThe blast came at a time when Lebanon's economy is facing collapse, hit both by a financial crisis and coronavirus restrictions. Many have lost jobs, while the worth of their savings has evaporated as the currency has plunged in value against the dollar. The result has thrown many into poverty.\nIt also occurred amid rising tensions between Israel and the militant Hezbollah group along Lebanon's southern border.\nThe explosion was reminiscent of massive blasts during Lebanon's civil war and took place only three days before a U.N.-backed tribunal was set to give its verdict in the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in a truck bombing more than 15 years ago. That explosion, with a ton of explosives, was felt miles away, just like Tuesday's explosion.\nOutside the St. George University Hospital in Beirut 's Achrafieh neighbourhood, people with various injuries arrived in ambulances, in cars and on foot. The explosion had caused major damage inside the building and knocked out the electricity at the hospital. Dozens of injured were being treated on the spot on the street outside, on stretchers and wheelchairs.\n“This is a catastrophe we have on our hands,” said one doctor, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to make press statements.}}
{{Jury reaches a verdict at murder trial of ex-cop Derek Chauvin in George Floyd’s death -- will be read Tuesday afternoon\nCheck back for more details.\n------------------------------------------------------------\nStay in touch with us anytime, anywhere.\nTo reach the newsroom or report a typo/correction, click HERE.\nSign up for newsletters emailed to your inbox. Select from these options: Breaking News, Evening News Headlines, Latest COVID-19 Headlines, Morning News Headlines, Special Offers\nFollow us on Twitter\nLike us on Facebook\nFollow us on Instagram\nSubscribe to our Youtube channel}}
{{(Adds United Arab Emirates, Hungary, Britain)\nAug 5 (Reuters) - Countries and international organisations lined up on Wednesday to help Lebanon after a massive warehouse explosion sent a blast wave across Beirut, killing at least 100 people and injuring nearly 4,000.\nBelow are details of some of the international assistance offered.\nBRITAIN - A five million pound ($6.6 million) aid package including search and rescue help and expert medical support.\nCYPRUS - Two helicopters, 10 rescuers and eight rescue dogs.\nThe Cypriot foreign minister said Nicosia had chartered a plane to deliver medical supplies and repatriate any Cypriots who wanted to leave Beirut. About 50 have already accepted the offer.\nCZECH REPUBLIC - A team of 36 people.\nDENMARK - 600 chemical protective suits, meant for the protection of search and rescue workers.\nEGYPT - Two planes with medical supplies.\nFRANCE - 55 security personnel, 6 tonnes of health equipment and around 10 emergency doctors.\nPresident Emmanuel Macron will fly on Thursday to Beirut, where he will meet political figures.\nGERMANY - Germany will, if possible, send a 47-strong rescue team. Also 1 million euros in immediate aid via the German Red Cross to establish first aid stations in Beirut and provide medical equipment.\nGREECE - A team of 12 personnel, a rescue dog and two special purpose vehicles.\nHUNGARY - Budapest is providing one million euros of humanitarian aid to help with life-saving efforts and reconstruction following the explosion in Beirut.\nThe aid will be provided to the charitable arm of the Maronite Church in Lebanon.\nIRAN - Nine tonnes of food, as well as medicine, medical equipment, medical personnel and a field hospital to Lebanon, according to Iranian media.\nIRAQ - A plane with emergency medical aid.\nITALY - Two Air Force planes with eight tonnes of medical equipment and a team of experts, according to Italian news agency ANSA.\nKUWAIT - Kuwait has delivered medical aid and other essentials.\nNETHERLANDS - A 67-person search and rescue team.\nNORWAY - 40 tonnes of medical equipment and 25 million Norwegian crowns ($2.79 million) in financial help.\nPOLAND - Medical materials and trained Polish rescuers.\nPoland’s State Fire Service will send 39 rescuers and four dogs. The flight is ready to leave as soon as Wednesday, once it gets approval from Lebanese authorities, the Prime Minister’s office said.\nQATAR - The country has dispatched the first of four planned flights on Wednesday with medical aid, and will deliver two field hospitals of 500 beds each, equipped with respirators and other necessary medical supplies.\nRUSSIA - Five planes carrying medical equipment, a field hospital and medical personnel. All medical staff travelling to Beirut will be equipped with personal protective gear in light of the coronavirus pandemic.\nTUNISIA - Two planes carrying food and medical aid. The president said his country could treat up to 100 of the casualties in its hospitals.\nTURKEY - Turkey’s Humanitarian Relief Foundation (IHH) is helping in the search for survivors, digging through debris to look for people and recover bodies.\nThe group has also mobilised a kitchen at a Palestinian refugee camp to deliver food to those in need, said Mustafa Ozbek, an Istanbul-based IHH official.\nEUROPEAN UNION - Activating a programme that helps countries after natural disasters and more than 100 firefighters are being deployed with vehicles, dogs and equipment for search and rescue operations.\nThe EU also activated its Copernicus satellite mapping system to help assess the damage.\nWHO, IFRC and UNITED ARAB EMIRATES - The World Health Organization, the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies and the United Arab Emirates have sent medical supplies, including personal protective equipment, medicine and surgical equipment. (Reporting by Reuters bureaux, Compiled by Timothy Heritage, Editing by Andrew Cawthorne, David Evans and Mike Collett-White)}}
{{The video starts off showing a typical scene from a bride's wedding day, when suddenly the impact of Tuesday's explosion can be seen on camera.\nA video of a bride getting ready for her wedding in Beirut captured the moment a massive explosion ripped through the city.\nIn the 27-second eyewitness video shared by Reuters from Mahmoud Nakib, the camera focuses in on the bride's gown and her flowers when suddenly the explosion hits.\nThe video shows the bouquet sent flying as the videographer runs for cover, along with the couple and others nearby.\nThe bride and groom were reportedly unharmed and later took cover at a home.\nTuesday's blast killed at least 135 people and wounded about 5,000 more, according to officials. The government ordered port officials put under house arrest amid speculation that negligence was to blame.\nVideo of bride on wedding day in Beirut captures moment massive warehouse explosion ripped through the city pic.twitter.com/ZsH20S4TGt — Reuters (@Reuters) August 5, 2020\nThe investigation is focusing on how 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate, a highly explosive chemical used in fertilizers, came to be stored at the facility for six years, and why nothing was done about it.\nA senior U.S. Defense Department official and member of the U.S. intelligence community said there were no indications the massive explosion that erupted on Tuesday evening in Lebanon’s capital was the result of an attack by either a nation state or proxy forces.}}
{{A number of posts on social media claim that the August 4 explosion in Beirut affected the Central Bank of Lebanon and that this bank has links to the Rothschild family. This is inaccurate and part of an antisemetic conspiracy theory.\nReuters Fact Check. REUTERS/Axel Schmidt\nA Facebook post with over 220 shares as of August 6 (here) includes the line: “EXPLOSION TAKES OUT ROTHSCHILD BANK”. Other posts on Facebook (here , here) and Twitter (here here) mention a “Rothschild bank” in relation to the explosion. Many of the posts share the same screenshot of a Google Maps view of Beirut showing both the site of the explosion and the Central Bank of Lebanon circled with a green annotation.\nThe Central Bank of Lebanon is located over two kilometres (bdl.gov.lb/pages/display/1) from the location of the explosion. A forensic analysis of the explosion by investigative journalism website Bellingcat (here) suggests a shockwave from the blast damaged windows and doors of buildings up to several kilometres away from the port. But there are no reports that the Central Bank of Lebanon suffered serious damage.\nA Reuters journalist saw no major damage to the central bank in Beirut after the blast. A central bank source told Reuters there were no major injuries or deaths. A partition fell, windows were shattered and some tiles were ripped out, but anything needed operationally was fixed the same night of the explosion. Another central bank source said that there was “very minor damage.”\nThe Central Bank of Lebanon, or Banque du Liban, was established in 1963. It is the state-owned central bank of Lebanon and is not under the control of private investors (here).\nReferences to the Rothschild family frequently feature in conspiracy theories that rely on antisemetic tropes (here , here). Rothschild & Co is a multinational financial advisory group and the strongest modern link between the family and banking. Rothschild & Co is headed by Alexandre Rothschild, a scion of the banking dynasty founded by Mayer Amschel Rothschild in the 18th century.\nIt reported a net profit of 233 million euros in 2019 (here) and 303 million euros in 2018 (here). The company deals in financial advice, wealth and asset management and merchant banking. The 2019 annual report for Rothschild and Co does not reference ownership of central banks.\nVERDICT\nFalse. The Central Bank of Lebanon building in Beirut was not destroyed by the explosion in the city on August 4. The bank is not owned or controlled by the Rothschild family.\nThis article was produced by the Reuters Fact Check team. Read more about our work to fact-check social media posts (here) .}}
{{Kyrie Irving helped buy George Floyd's family a house.\nThe news was first mentioned by Stephen Jackson, a friend of the Floyds, on a podcast.\nIrving confirmed the purchase during a media call, saying it was a "team effort" and he was trying to do his part.\nVisit Insider's homepage for more stories.\nKyrie Irving spoke to reporters on Tuesday and confirmed he helped buy a house for George Floyd's family.\nIt was Irving's first time speaking to reporters since leaving the Brooklyn Nets for "personal" reasons. Irving missed seven games while away.\nFormer NBA player Stephen Jackson first revealed Irving's contribution on "The Mismatch" podcast, saying Irving was one of several celebrities to help out Floyd's family.\nIrving on Tuesday said it was a "team effort" and he was just trying to do his part.\n"It was a team effort," Irving told reporters on Zoom. "Just continuing to fulfill our purpose and serve the underserved communities that don't get as much attention from others. Just trying to do my part. Selfless service, that's all."\nThe Undefeated's Marc J. Spears reported that Irving had given the family the money for the house five or six months ago.\nFloyd was killed on May 25, 2020, when a white police officer kneeled on his neck for seven minutes. Floyd's death, which was captured on camera, sparked nationwide protests.\nJackson, who was friends with Floyd, also revealed that rapper Lil' Wayne's manager bought the Floyd family a Mercedes Benz, while actress Barbara Streisand bought the family Disney stock.\nIrving has become increasingly involved in social justice matters. While away from the Nets, Irving was seen on a Zoom call for a campaign of a Manhattan district attorney candidate.}}
{{President-elect Joe Biden arrives at at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, Monday, Jan. 4, 2021, in Atlanta, en route to campaign for Georgia Democratic candidates for U.S. Senate, Rev. Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)\nWASHINGTON (AP) — President-elect Joe Biden is mostly steering clear of the controversy engulfing President Donald Trump’s final days in office, aiming to project the different approach to governing Americans can expect when he moves into the White House on Jan. 20.\nBiden and his team have offered a muted response to Trump’s efforts to overturn the election, which reached a new level this past weekend when he pressured Georgia’s Republican secretary of state to “find” enough votes to flip the state in his favor.\nWhile some Democrats say Trump’s actions merit new impeachment proceedings, Biden has been more circumspect. He didn’t address the matter directly during his visit to Georgia Monday afternoon where he campaigned for two Democratic Senate candidates, only hinting at Trump’s efforts to reverse the result of the election by joking, “I don’t know why he still wants the job — he doesn’t want to do the work.”\nBiden later spoke broadly about Democrats’ “opposition friends” realizing that “power flows from the people.”\n“Politicians cannot assert, take or seize power. Power is granted by the American people alone,” he said.\nHis comments followed a brief written statement from senior adviser Bob Bauer this weekend decrying Trump’s “assault on American democracy.”\nThe low-key approach is in keeping with Biden’s overall strategy to focus on preparing to assume the presidency even as Trump goes to ever-greater lengths to sow doubt about the election results. The relatively muted response reflects an effort to reassure Americans that Biden will take a starkly different approach to leading during a time of historic turmoil over the coronavirus pandemic and the economy.\n“The country is ready to move forward, and President-elect Biden is going to remain focused on the work ahead of us in completing a successful transition and putting together an administration that will get this virus under control and build our economy back better,” said Biden adviser Kate Bedingfield.\nBiden’s aides believe Americans outside Washington want to hear more about how the Biden presidency will help them and less about the partisan squabbling that has characterized the past four years of Trump’s presidency.\nSo while Biden has chosen his moments to weigh in on Trump’s attacks on the election results — he delivered a speech denouncing Trump’s actions after the Electoral College certified his win in mid-December — he’s largely focused on his Cabinet nominees and fleshing out his response to the pandemic.\nAnd while some Democrats on Capitol Hill have raised the prospect of impeachment, Democratic leadership has emphasized that the party’s focus is on Biden’s agenda rather than on Trump’s malfeasance.\n“We’re not looking backward. We’re looking forward to the inauguration of Joe Biden on January 20th,” said House Democratic Caucus Chair Hakeem Jeffries during a press conference Monday.\nThe strategy is informed by the reality that Trump’s complaints have been repeatedly rebuffed by members of his own party and administration and are running out of oxygen as Biden’s inauguration draws near.\nThere was no widespread fraud in the election, which a range of election officials across the country, as well as Trump’s former attorney general, William Barr, has confirmed. Republican governors in Arizona and Georgia, key battleground states crucial to Biden’s victory, have vouched for the integrity of the elections in their states. Nearly all the legal challenges from Trump and his allies have been dismissed by judges, including two tossed by the Supreme Court, where three Trump-nominated justices preside.\nBiden’s team of lawyers have kept tabs on the legal challenges in the states and weighed in when they believed it was necessary. But his aides say taking on Trump every time he raises a new, baseless complaint gives the president exactly what he wants and doesn’t deserve: attention and credibility.\n“Donald Trump’s attack on our democracy has failed, and his baseless claims of voter fraud have been debunked across the board, including by dozens of courts and his own attorney general,” Bedingfield said.\nTrump’s next big stand comes Wednesday, when some Republicans in the House and Senate plan to protest Biden’s win as Congress formally ratifies his victory, and thousands of Trump supporters will descend on the Capitol for a march.\nBut that show of protest faces its own challenges as even some of Trump’s staunchest allies on Capitol Hill have dismissed the move. Arkansas Sen. Tom Cotton, a longtime Trump supporter who may seek the White House in 2024, said in a statement that he would reject the gambit because it would “establish unwise precedents.”\n“Congress would take away the power to choose the president from the people, which would essentially end presidential elections and place that power in the hands of whichever party controls Congress,” Cotton said.\nIndeed, by avoiding engaging with Trump, Biden is also hoping to maintain the opportunity for bipartisanship in the new Congress, which he’s repeatedly emphasized will be key to his hopes of getting anything done. Going after Trump too aggressively could further politicize his presidency before it even begins.\nBut some Democrats warn that there are risks to staying above the fray.\nJim Manley, a former longtime Senate Democratic leadership aide, said the party’s failure to take on Trump’s recent moves could set the tone for Biden’s presidency and beyond.\n“The risk is that it affirms for not only future presidents, but also Republicans in the House and the Senate, that there are no consequences for breaking the rules,” he said. “The fear is that doing nothing will embolden Republicans, some of whom were teetering on the edge of sedition to ramp up their efforts to undermine Biden’s presidency.”\nTrump has indicated he has no plans to go away quietly, floating a possible 2024 run, blanketing social media with incendiary posts and threatening Republicans who break with his complaints about the election results. He’s certain to continue to marshal his sizable base in support of his post-presidential plans — or in opposition to Biden’s.\nAnd while Democrats on Capitol Hill publicly emphasize the need to stay focused on Biden’s proposals, they privately express concerns about the tone they say Republicans are setting for the Biden presidency by protesting the certification of his win.\nAccording to Democratic strategist Andrew Feldman, the prospect of continued obstruction from Republicans and complaints about the legitimacy of Biden’s presidency make it all the more important that Biden stay laser-focused on enacting his agenda even in the middle of the political din.\n“The Republicans aren’t going to let up here. We’re going to be dealing with a narrative for the next four years about Biden being an illegitimate president,” he said. “We are going to have to combat that — not only with messaging, but with real results that help the American people.”}}
{{Nike released a simple but powerful ad Friday evening following the police-involved death of George Floyd in Minneapolis earlier this week.\nThe footwear company posted a minute-long ad with white text over a black screen on its Instagram urging people not to “turn your back on racism” and instead “be part of the change.”\nBENGALS ROOKIE JOE BURROW SAYS ‘BLACK COMMUNITY NEEDS OUR HELP’ IN WAKE OF GEORGE FLOYD DEATH, VIOLENT UNREST\n“For once, Don’t Do It,” the text read, playing on Nike’s popular slogan.\n“Don’t pretend there’s not a problem in America. Don’t turn your back on racism. Don’t accept innocent lives being taken from us. Don’t make any more excuses. Don’t think this doesn’t affect you. Don’t sit back and be silent. Don’t think you can’t be part of the change. Let’s all be part of the change.”\nEAGLES’ CARSON WENTZ, ZACH ERTZ SPEAK OUT ON GEORGE FLOYD CASE\nNike’s stance on the issue comes after several athletes joined a nationwide movement to publicly condemn the officers involved in Floyd’s death.\nFloyd was killed as Minneapolis police officers had him in custody Monday. A video appeared to show one officer with a knee on Floyd’s neck as he screamed for help and that he was having trouble breathing. Floyd later died.\nViolent protests have since erupted throughout the nation.\nCLICK HERE TO GET MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM\nThe officer seen pressing his knee against Floyd’s neck has since been arrested and faces third-degree murder and manslaughter charges.\nFox News’ Ryan Gaydos contributed to this report.}}
{{Topline\nWith less than 72 hours left to go before Election Day, President Trump and Joe Biden are focusing their final moments on solidifying key states that went for Trump in 2016 but are in play in 2020, as Trump jets across at least five swing states and Biden homes in on Pennsylvania.\nPresident Donald Trump (L) and Democratic Presidential candidate and former US Vice President Joe ... [+] Biden during the final presidential debate at Belmont University in Nashville, Tennessee, on October 22, 2020. AFP via Getty Images\nKey Facts\nWith limited time and Michigan and Wisconsin seeming to move in his favor, Biden will spend the majority of Sunday and Monday barnstorming Pennsylvania, which many see as his ticket to an electoral victory. The Biden campaign is also making a last-minute play to peel away some electoral votes from traditionally red states to either cushion a win or keep the Democrats competitive if they lose Pennsylvania, with Ohio added to the itinerary for Monday and Democratic vice presidential nominee Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) scheduled to spend time in Georgia and North Carolina. While Trump’s campaign has also put a strong 11th hour emphasis on Pennsylvania—hosting four back-to-back rallies in the state on Saturday and planning a transparent jab at Biden with a visit to his hometown Scranton on Monday—the president’s schedule is significantly more diverse as he scrambles to respond to Biden’s expanding electoral map. Hoping to defend as many states as possible that favored him in 2016, Trump is hosting five rallies on Sunday across Michigan, Iowa, North Carolina, Georgia and Florida. On Monday, the president will return to North Carolina and Michigan, where Biden has held a strong lead, and then move through Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, states the Trump campaign believes it can win despite trailing in the polls.\nKey Background\nWhile polling shows Biden has a commanding lead nationally and is edging Trump out in crucial swing states, Republicans have been quick to point to 2016 as an example of why the election could turn in their favor. Republican and Democratic strategists alike have acknowledged the strong possibility Trump could contradict the polls and secure four more years in the White House. Like last election cycle, Trump is on a last-minute mad dash to enthuse new voters and stoke massive turnout on Election Day.}}
{{US election 2020: Biden nears finish line with lead in polls, but Trump still close in swing states\nWith two days to go, Democrat Joe Biden holds a commanding national lead over President Donald Trump amid deep voter concerns about the coronavirus pandemic, but Trump is keeping his hopes alive by staying competitive in the swing states that could decide the White House race.\nBiden’s national lead over the Republican president has stayed relatively steady in recent months as the public health crisis has persisted. He is ahead 51% to 43% in the latest Reuters/Ipsos poll taken Oct. 27-29.\nBut Trump is still close to Biden in enough state battlegrounds to give him the 270 state Electoral College votes needed to win a second term. Reuters/Ipsos polls show that the race remains a toss up in Florida, North Carolina and Arizona.\nTrump also trails by five points in Pennsylvania and nine points in Michigan and Wisconsin, three other battleground states that helped give him an Electoral College win in 2016 over Democrat Hillary Clinton, who won the popular vote.\nBut even without Michigan and Wisconsin, Trump can win again if he holds all of the other states he won in 2016.\nTrump’s deficit in the polls has been driven in part by erosion in support from two big parts of his winning 2016 coalition, whites without a college degree and older Americans, and by public disapproval of his handling of the pandemic, which has become the dominant issue in the race.\nBiden and Trump have taken starkly different approaches to managing COVID-19, which has killed more than 227,000 people in the United States and cost millions more their jobs. Trump has repeatedly diminished the threat and promised it will end soon, while Biden has vowed to prioritize more stringent efforts to contain it.\nMore than three-quarters of American adults say they are personally concerned about the health crisis, and almost 60% disapprove of the way Trump has responded to it, Reuters/Ipsos polls show.\nBiden earns higher marks than Trump on his ability to handle the pandemic, and about 30% of Americans say their vote this year is primarily driven by their perception of who would be better at handling the crisis.\nECONOMIC CONCERNS\nWhile Trump still has a slight lead over Biden on who would best manage the economy, that has become a smaller concern for many voters during the pandemic. Only 21% of likely voters said they are mostly looking for a president who is strong on the economy and job creation.\nTrump has not been able to skirt blame for the economic slowdown and job losses caused by the pandemic. Nearly half of likely voters in three of the biggest state battlegrounds – Florida, Pennsylvania and North Carolina – blame continued school and business closures on “poor leadership and policy decisions from President Trump.”\nTrump’s response to the pandemic has hurt him with older Americans, who are most at risk from the virus. Polls show a 4-point Biden lead among voters who are at least 55 years old, a group Trump carried by 14 points in 2016.\nTrump’s advantage with non-college whites, another big component of his winning coalition in 2016, also has dwindled this year. The latest polls show Trump leading among non-college whites by 18 percentage points, compared to 30 points in 2016.\nBiden also has been successful at cutting into Trump’s support from college-educated white women, suburban men and independents. Reuters/Ipsos polling this month showed Biden winning white women college graduates by 27 points, while Clinton won them by 15 points in 2016. Biden also leads by 18 points among independent voters, who Trump won by 7 points in 2016.\nBiden leads with suburban men by 12 points now. In March, they supported Trump by 1 point.\nMore than a month ago, nearly nine of 10 Biden supporters and nine of 10 Trump supporters said they were “completely certain” they would not change their minds. The latest Reuters/Ipsos poll shows only 6% of likely voters are not currently backing a major party candidate. Four years ago, the number of similarly undecided voters was three times as high.\nComments\ncomments}}
{{Something went wrong - please try again later.\nThank you for signing up to The Courier daily newsletter\nSign up for our daily newsletter of the top stories in Courier country\nDerek Chauvin “had to know” he was squeezing the life out of George Floyd as the black man cried over and over that he could not breathe and finally fell silent, a prosecutor told the jury during closing arguments at the police officer’s murder trial.\n“Use your common sense. Believe your eyes. What you saw, you saw,” Steve Schleicher said, referring to the video of Mr Floyd pinned to the pavement with Chauvin’s knee on or close to his neck last May for up to nine minutes, 29 seconds, as bystanders yelled at the white officer to get off.\nChauvin lawyer Eric Nelson countered by arguing that Chauvin did what any “reasonable” police officer would have done after finding himself in a “dynamic” and “fluid” situation involving a large man struggling with three police officers.\nAs Mr Nelson began speaking, Chauvin removed his Covid-19 mask in front of the jury for one of very few times during the trial.\nVisitors at a memorial to George Floyd as a new addition commemorating Daunte Wright is displayed outside Cup Foods in Minneapolis, Minnesota (John Minchill/AP)\nThe duelling arguments got under way with Minneapolis on edge after Mr Floyd’s death last spring set off protests in the city and across the US that at times turned violent.\nThe defence contends not only that Chauvin acted reasonably but that 46-year-old Mr Floyd died of heart disease and illegal drug use, not Chauvin’s actions.\nProsecutor Jerry Blackwell had the final word, offering the state’s rebuttal argument. The prosecutor, who is black, said questions about the use of force and cause of death are “so simple that a child can understand it”.\n“In fact, a child did understand it, when the nine-year-old girl said, ‘Get off of him’,” Mr Blackwell said, referring to a young witness who objected to what she saw. “That’s how simple it was. ‘Get off of him’. Common sense.”\nUnder the law, police are given certain latitude to use force and their actions are supposed to be judged according to what a “reasonable officer” in the same situation would have done — a point the defence stressed repeatedly.\nMr Nelson noted that officers who first went to the shop where Mr Floyd allegedly tried to pass a counterfeit 20 dollar note were already struggling with Mr Floyd when Chauvin arrived as back-up. The lawyer also noted that the first two officers on the scene were rookies and that police had been told Mr Floyd might be on drugs.\n“A reasonable police officer understands the intensity of the struggle,” Mr Nelson said, saying Chauvin’s body-worn camera and his police badge were knocked off his chest.\nDuring prosecution arguments, Mr Schleicher replayed portions of the bystander video and other footage as he dismissed certain defence theories about Mr Floyd’s death as “nonsense”, saying Chauvin killed Mr Floyd by constricting his breathing.\nMr Schleicher rejected the drug overdose argument, as well as the contention that police were distracted by hostile onlookers, that Mr Floyd had “superhuman” strength from a state of agitation known as “excited delirium”, and that he suffered possible carbon monoxide poisoning from exhaust fumes.\nProsecutor Steve Schleicher during closing arguments (Court TV via AP/Pool)\nThe prosecutor sarcastically referred to the idea that it was heart disease that killed Mr Floyd as an “amazing coincidence”.\n“Is that common sense or is that nonsense?” Mr Schleicher asked the racially diverse jury.\nBut Mr Nelson said the prosecution brought in experts to give evidence that Mr Floyd died because of asphyxia, or lack of oxygen, while the person who performed the post-mortem, the county medical examiner, reached a different finding.\nHennepin County medical examiner Dr Andrew Baker, who ruled the death a homicide, said Mr Floyd’s heart gave out because of the way police held him down. He listed Mr Floyd’s drug use and underlying health problems as contributing factors.\nMr Nelson also showed the jury pictures of pills found in Mr Floyd’s car and remnants discovered in the patrol car. Fentanyl and methamphetamine were found in Mr Floyd’s system.\nEarlier, Mr Schleicher described how Chauvin ignored Mr Floyd’s cries and continued to kneel on him well after he stopped breathing and had no pulse.\nChauvin was “on top of him for nine minutes and 29 seconds and he had to know”, Mr Schleicher said.\nHe said Chauvin “heard him, but he just didn’t listen”.\nJudge Peter Cahill reads instructions to the jury before closing arguments (Court TV via AP/Pool)\nThe prosecutor further argued that Mr Floyd was “not a threat to anyone” and was not trying to escape when he struggled with officers. Instead, Mr Schleicher said, he was terrified of being put into the tiny back seat of the police car.\nHe said a reasonable officer with Chauvin’s training and experience — he was a 19-year Minneapolis police veteran — should have sized up the situation accurately.\nChauvin, wearing a light grey suit with a blue shirt and blue tie, showed little expression as he watched himself and the other officers pinning Mr Floyd to the ground on bodycam video played by his lawyer.\nMr Schleicher also noted that Chauvin was required to use his training to provide medical care to Mr Floyd but ignored bystanders, rebuffed help from an off-duty paramedic and rejected a suggestion from another officer to roll Mr Floyd on to his side.\n“He could have listened to the bystanders. He could have listened to fellow officers. He could have listened to his own training. He knew better. He just didn’t do better,” said Mr Schleicher, adding that even a nine-year-old bystander knew it was dangerous.\n“Conscious indifference. Indifference. Do you want to know what indifference is and sounds like?” Mr Schleicher asked before playing a video of Chauvin replying “Uh-huh” several times as Mr Floyd cried out.\nThe prosecution took about an hour and 45 minutes to make its case, with Mr Schleicher saying at the conclusion: “This wasn’t policing. This was murder.”\nMr Nelson, in his closing argument, played portions of bystander video that showed the increasingly agitated onlookers shouting at Chauvin to get off Mr Floyd’s neck. He said officers may have determined it was not safe to render medical aid to Mr Floyd in that environment.\nChauvin, 45, is charged with second-degree murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter. All three charges require the jury to conclude that Chauvin’s actions were a “substantial causal factor” in Mr Floyd’s death and that his use of force was unreasonable.\nSecond-degree intentional murder carries up to 40 years in prison, third-degree murder 25 years, and second-degree manslaughter 10 years.}}
{{The jury has reached a verdict at the murder trial of former Minneapolis police Officer Derek Chauvin in the death of George Floyd. The verdict is expected to be read at about 8.30am New Zealand time.\n1 NEWS will be livestreaming the verdict on its website.\nSource: 1 NEWS\nFloyd died last May after Chauvin, a white officer, pinned his knee on the 46-year-old Black man’s neck for about 9 1/2 minutes in a case that triggered worldwide protests, violence and a furious reexamination of racism and policing in the US.\nThe jury deliberated over parts of two days in a city on edge against another outbreak of unrest.\nThe jury at former Officer Derek Chauvin's murder trial in George Floyd's death deliberated for a second day today in a city skittish over the outcome as President Joe Biden weighed in by saying he believes the case is “overwhelming".\nThe racially diverse jury — anonymous and sequestered from the outside world — resumed deliberations as lawmakers and fellow citizens alike delivered their own opinions about the combustible case that triggered protests, scattered violence and a reckoning over racism in the US.\n“It shouldn’t be really even questioned whether there will be an acquittal or a verdict that doesn’t meet the scale of the crime that was committed,” Representative Ilhan Omar, a Democrat, said in Brooklyn Center, a suburb just outside Minneapolis. The congresswoman said the Chauvin case looks open-and-shut.\nGuilty verdicts could mark a turning point in the fight for racial equality, she said.\n“We are holding on to one another for support. Hopefully this verdict will come soon and the community will start the process of healing,” Omar said.\nIn Washington, the president said that he had spoken to Floyd’s family on Monday and “can only imagine the pressure and anxiety they’re feeling.”\n“They’re a good family and they’re calling for peace and tranquility no matter what that verdict is,” Biden said. “I’m praying the verdict is the right verdict. I think it’s overwhelming, in my view. I wouldn’t say that unless the jury was sequestered now.”\nThe president has repeatedly denounced Floyd’s death but previously stopped short of commenting on the trial itself.\nYour playlist will load after this ad\nProsecutors argued that Chauvin squeezed the life out of Floyd last May when the white officer knelt on or near the 46-year-old Black man's neck for 9 1/2 minutes.\nThe defence contended that the now-fired white officer acted reasonably and that a heart condition and illegal drug use led to Floyd's death.\nThe jury of six white people and six people who are Black or multiracial spent just a few hours on their task yesterday after the day was mostly consumed by closing arguments. They will remain sequestered until verdicts are reached.}}
{{“I think that silence is accepting the status quo as if it’s OK and it’s not OK,” Brown said\nST. LOUIS — People across the country are speaking up against racial injustice and many celebrities are using their platforms to get the word out.\nSt. Louis native Sterling K. Brown joined NBC’s Lester Holt Thursday night.\n“I think that silence is accepting the status quo as if it’s OK and it’s not OK,” Brown said.\nBrown said people are fed up after the deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and George Floyd.\n“We’re in the midst of a pandemic where our health is being threatened and in the midst of three instances in a row black people have seen three black people destroyed in the case of Ahmaud Arbery, in the case of Breonna Taylor and now Mr. George Floyd,” he said.\nBrown also addressed those who have caused damage and vandalism. He said it needs to stop to enact real lasting change.\nHe said when he has friends that talk to him and that are concerned about the vandalism, looting and rioting – he said he has no desire to minimize that but he also asks them to be equally, even more so appalled by the loss of life.\n“For those people that are looting, I ask them to stop – please be on message because we want change, real lasting change and I want outrage for the loss of life – that’s how I feel,” Brown said.\nHe said he’s encouraged by the coalition of people coming together who are vocalizing the need for change.\nBrown described a time an instance that happened with a referee as his son played in a soccer game.\nHe said the referee told his son he was making an “aggressive play” and told him he was being wild and should be careful before he hurt someone.\n“I found it interesting she singled him out because he wasn’t the most aggressive person or the most dangerous kid or wild. We’re describing a human being and this is one of those cases of implicit bias that we encounter time and time again where people says things at are hurtful and I don’t even think their cognizant of what they’re doing,” Brown explained on NBC Nightly. “\n“I pulled her over after the game and I said, ‘ma’am did you call my son wild?’ And I said you have to be careful with language you use with young black children. Because he’s a human being, he’s not wild. He plays hard and if you reframe it you would probably reframe it in another way with another child and he’s crying on the bench right now because he’s just a boy and I need you to apologize,” Brown said.}}
{{The devastating blast in central Beirut on Tuesday that killed 135 people and wounded 4,000 has once again turned the spotlight on a city that had in the past survived civil wars, sectarian violence, foreign interventions and terrorist attacks. While there is no dearth of conspiracy theories, the initial assessment of the government is that the blast was caused by the detonation of more than 2,700 tonnes of ammonium nitrate that had been stored in a warehouse at the Beirut port after it was confiscated from a cargo ship six years ago. Officials say the initial explosion ignited a fire, while the second one was more devastating with a mushroom cloud of smoke and fire enveloping the capital’s skyline and its shock waves battering buildings across the city and wounding thousands. Officials have said they would investigate any potential terror angle, while Prime Minister Hassan Diab has promised to bring “all those responsible for this catastrophe” to justice. U.S. President Donald Trump has called it an attack. The magnitude of the blast and the level of the destruction it caused in one of the busiest areas of the capital city suggest that the casualties could be higher. Beirut’s health-care system, struggling to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, is already stretched. Coping with the aftermath of the blast itself would be an uphill task for the country’s beleaguered government.\nThe blast could not have come at a worse time for Lebanon. In recent years, it has been battling with one crisis or another — be it political instability, a crumbling economy or the pandemic. Massive street protests that broke out in Beirut and elsewhere last year against corruption and the government’s inability to provide even basic services to citizens, paralysed governance further, leading to Prime Minister Saad Hariri’s resignation. The new government’s immediate priority was to fix the economy. But the economy is still in free fall. Prices of essential goods are high, foreign currency is scarce and the GDP is expected to contract 12% this year, according to the International Monetary Fund. Residents of Beirut are also struggling with long power outages, which are delaying even the rescue efforts after the blast. On the southern border, tensions between Israel and Hezbollah are on the rise, with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warning of military action. If Lebanon was already on its knees, amidst all these crises, the blast would most likely break its back. It has rendered hundreds of thousands homeless and would deepen the country’s economic woes as one of its main ports has been destroyed. The immediate focus should be on rescuing the wounded and getting the city back on its feet. All stakeholders, from the Sunni parties to Shia Hezbollah, should work together. Other countries in the region as well as international institutions should offer help to Beirut to withstand this moment of catastrophe.}}
{{Denham Springs, LA (70726)\nToday\nSunny to partly cloudy. High near 65F. Winds ESE at 5 to 10 mph..\nTonight\nPeriods of rain. Thunder possible. Low 47F. Winds SE at 10 to 15 mph. Chance of rain 100%.}}
{{President Donald Trump speaks with reporters after participating in a video teleconference call with members of the military on Thanksgiving, Thursday, Nov. 26, 2020, at the White House in Washington. (AP Photo/Patrick Semansky)\nWASHINGTON, D.C. (KXAN) — Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp received a phone call from Pres. Donald Trump Saturday morning — during which Trump reportedly urged Kemp to convince the Georgia legislature to overturn President-elect Joe Biden’s election win in the state.\nAccording to the Washington Post, Trump also asked the Republican Kemp to order absentee ballot signatures be audited.\nTrump is scheduled to host a rally in Georgia for the state’s Republican senators, Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue.\nA source close to the conversation between Trump and Kemp told WaPo that the president tried to get Kemp to call a special legislative session in order to appoint electors who would vote for him.\nKemp declined, the source told Washington Post.\nThe move comes on the heels of weeks of Trump campaign attempts to block state certification and/or fully overturn election results based on still unproven claims of voter fraud. This has taken the shape of several lawsuits, the overwhelming majority of which have been thrown out of court due to lack of credible evidence.\nOn Dec. 1, U.S. Attorney General William Barr broke rank with Trump, announcing that the U.S. Justice Department uncovered no evidence of widespread voter fraud that would change the election’s outcome.\nEarlier this week, Trump called Kemp “hapless” for his refusal to “overrule” Georgia Sec. of State Brad Raffensperger’s certification of Biden’s win. Trump also claimed the state was “scammed” because Kemp did not intervene and told Fox News he was “ashamed” he endorsed him in 2018.\nOn Saturday morning, Trump tweeted ahead of his Georgia appearance: “I will easily & quickly win Georgia if Governor @BrianKempGA or the Secretary of State permit a simple signature verification. Has not been done and will show large scale discrepancies. Why are these two “Republicans” saying no? If we win Georgia, everything else falls in place!”\nTrump’s advancement of conspiracy theories and refusal to concede come as Biden officially secured enough votes to become president on Friday. As of Saturday, Biden has 279 electoral votes to Trump’s 232.\nOnce all states have officially certified, Biden will have 306. Additionally, Biden currently leads Trump by nearly 8 million popular votes.\nThe Electoral College will meet Dec. 14 to formally vote and results will be received by Congress on Jan. 6.\nGet the latest headlines from FOX8.com below:}}
{{Valarie Fakhoury, a British grandmother with her Lebanese daughter and granddaughter, stand outside the emergency ward of a hospital in central Beirut. Janine Haidar/AFP/Getty Images\nHundreds of people have been hospitalized across the Lebanese capital and many are feared dead in the aftermath of a massive blast that rocked Beirut, shattering glass and damaging buildings miles from the site.\nHospital emergency rooms are being inundated by the injured, with the emergency section of one main hospital – the American University of Beirut Medical Center – unable to receive more patients, partly due to blast damage, according to state media.\nThe Lebanese Red Cross, health officials and politicians have called on people to donate blood to help the injured in hospital.\nImages from the city show cars, ambulances and military vehicles packed with the walking wounded and others who appeared not to be moving.\nWhile officials have yet to announce an official number of casualties, multiple members of the emergency services and politicians speaking to local media have expressed worries that there could be a high death toll.}}
{{Rescue employees in Lebanon have actually been digging through the debris searching for survivors of a destructive surge in Beirut on Tuesday that eliminated a minimum of 100 individuals and hurt more than 4,00 0 others.\nHere is what we understand up until now.\nWhat taken place?\nThere was apparently a preliminary surge in the port location around about 18: 00 (15: 00 GMT) on Tuesday, followed by a fire and little blasts that some witnesses stated seemed like fireworks going off.\nVideos published on social networks revealed white smoke rippling from a storage facility beside the port’s grain silos quickly prior to a gigantic surge sent out a fireball into the air and produced a supersonic, mushroom cloud-shaped shockwave that radiated throughout the city.\nMedia playback is unsupported on your gadget “Now I’m shaking, all the way from up to down” – Eyewitnesses explain the power of the surge\nThe 2nd blast levelled structures near the port and triggered comprehensive damage over much of the remainder of the capital, which is house to 2 million individuals. Hospitals were rapidly overwhelmed.\n“What we are witnessing is a huge catastrophe,” stated the head of the Lebanese Red Cross, …}}
{{Former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin pushed his knee down against George Floyd’s neck for about nine minutes. Floyd said he couldn’t breathe and pleaded to be released. He died beneath Chauvin’s knee. Chauvin stands accused of third-degree murder.\nOKLAHOMA CITY (KFOR) – Black Lives Matter will protest in Oklahoma City Saturday, May 30, to demand justice for George Floyd, who died beneath the knee of a Minneapolis police officer.\nProtesters will meet at 7:30 p.m. at the Walgreens on the corner of NW 23rd and Classen Avenue.\nProtest organizers urge all participants to wear face masks and allow six feet of distance between themselves and fellow protesters.\nFloyd died Monday, May 25. Derek Chauvin, a Minneapolis police officer who has since been fired from the Minneapolis Police Department, pinned his knee against the back of Floyd’s neck for about nine minutes as Floyd, who was handcuffed, said he couldn’t breathe and pleaded for his life. Three other officers surrounded Floyd and helped keep him pinned to the ground as nearby citizens expressed concern that Floyd couldn’t breathe.\nFloyd, 46, was unresponsive and did not have a pulse when EMS arrived to the scene, Minneapolis fire officials said in a report.\nHe was taken to a hospital, and emergency room staff worked for nearly an hour to revive him.\nFloyd was officially pronounced dead 90 minutes after his encounter with Minneapolis police.\nChauvin was arrested on suspicion of third-degree murder. His bond was set at $500,000.\nOutrage over Floyd’s death has swept across the nation, with protests going deep into the night in several major cities.\nThe protest in Minneapolis has resulted in the burning of businesses and a police precinct. Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz, who pledged swift justice for Floyd, has mobilized the National Guard in response to the protests.\nProtesters have called for the arrest of the other three officers – Tou Thao, J. Alexander Kueng and Thomas K. Lane – as well.\nA protest was held in Oklahoma City on Friday.\nBlack Lives Matter will hold another protest in Oklahoma City on Sunday, May 31 at 2:30 p.m. at 36th Street and Kelley.\nA protest will be held in Norman at 2 p.m. Monday, June 1, in Andrews Park.}}
{{Michelle Obama has released a statement on the unrest spreading across the country after the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis, saying she is “exhausted” by the heartbreak brought on by the killings of people of color and adding that “it’s up to all of us” to root out racism.\nThe former first lady put out a statement on Twitter on Friday after several days of sometimes violent unrest that started in Minneapolis and has spread to a number of cities across the country after Floyd died in police custody on Monday. Obama shared artwork depicting Floyd and posted a message acknowledging the cases of people of color killed by police in recent years.\n“Right now it’s George, Breonna, and Ahmaud. Before that it was Eric, Sandra, and Michael. It just goes on, and on, and on,” she wrote.\nObama added that everyone across the country must come together to confront and eliminate racism.\n“Race and racism is a reality that so many of us grow up learning to just deal with. But if we ever hope to move past it, it can’t just be on people of color to deal with it,” she said. “It’s up to all of us—Black, white, everyone—no matter how well-meaning we think we might be, to do the honest, uncomfortable work of rooting it out. It starts with self-examination and listening to those whose lives are different from our own.”\nMichelle Obama released a statement shortly after one from her husband, former President Barack Obama, lamenting that people are still treated so drastically different based on their race. Like the statement from his wife, Barack Obama said that people must work together to create a “new normal” where “the legacy of bigotry and unequal treatment no longer infects our institutions or hearts.”\nA number of other leaders across the country have called for calm in the wake of several nights of violent protests in major cities. In Atlanta, Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms told violent protesters to “go home” after protests there turned destructive as demonstrators destroyed police cars and vandalized and looting CNN Center. Bottoms invoked Martin Luther King Jr. in calling on them to protest with a purpose. Leaders across Minnesota have also called for peace as the protests continued there and have grown in intensity, with protesters on Thursday setting fire to a police precinct building where Floyd’s arresting officers had been stationed.}}
{{U.S. Sen. Rick Scott talks to a crowd at a Donald Trump rally in Opa-locka on Nov. 1, 2020. dvarela@miamiherald.com\nU.S. Sen. Rick Scott will “likely” vote against the certification of the results of the presidential election in Pennsylvania, Florida’s junior senator announced Wednesday morning.\n“The situation in Pennsylvania is of particular concern to me, and I will likely vote to sustain the objection to their slate of electors,” he said in a statement released by his office shortly before Congress convened to certify the results of each state’s presidential election.\nScott now appears likely to join — at least in part — more than a dozen Republican U.S. senators who have said they will challenge the results in several battleground states that were key to Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s win, Pennsylvania among them.\nThe effort is all but guaranteed to fail. But President Donald Trump continues to pressure the GOP to attempt to overturn the results of the election, claiming falsely that he won. Dozens of Republican House members also plan to object, setting off debates and eventually votes.\nThe results of other states, including Arizona and Georgia, are also expected to be contested.\nScott singled out Pennsylvania, he said, due to a decision by the state’s Democratic administration to accept mail ballots that were sent by Election Day but arrived after polls closed. The move was challenged and upheld by the Pennsylvania Supreme Court, and Republican Sen. Pat Toomey recently noted that the roughly 10,000 late-arriving ballots in question amount to a fraction of Biden’s winning total in the state.\nScott did not indicate how he would vote in relation to the results for those states, saying only that he “will listen to any and all objections that are raised” and “pay careful attention to the evidence and arguments presented by both sides.”\nFlorida’s senior U.S. senator, Republican Marco Rubio, has not indicated how he will vote Wednesday.}}
{{Demonstrators shout along a perimeter fence guarded by law enforcement officers during a protest over Sunday’s fatal shooting of Daunte Wright during a traffic stop, outside the Brooklyn Center Police Department, Wednesday, April 14, 2021, in Brooklyn Center, Minn. (AP Photo/John Minchillo)\nMINNEAPOLIS (AP) — A timeline of key events that began with George Floyd’s arrest on May 25, 2020, by four police officers in Minneapolis:\nMay 25 — Minneapolis police officers respond to a call shortly after 8 p.m. about a possible counterfeit $20 bill being used at a corner grocery and encounter a Black man, later identified as George Floyd, who struggles and ends up handcuffed and face down on the ground. Officer Derek Chauvin uses his knee to pin Floyd’s neck for about nine minutes while bystanders shout at him to stop. Bystander video shows Floyd crying “I can’t breathe” multiple times before going limp. He’s pronounced dead at a hospital.\nMay 26 — Police issue a statement saying Floyd died after a “medical incident,” and that he physically resisted and appeared to be in medical distress. Minutes later, bystander video is posted online. Police release another statement saying the FBI will help investigate. Chauvin and three other officers — Thomas Lane, J. Kueng and Tou Thao — are fired. Protests begin.\nMay 27 — Mayor Jacob Frey calls for criminal charges against Chauvin. Protests lead to unrest in Minneapolis, with some people looting and starting fires. Protests spread to other cities.\nMay 28 — Gov. Tim Walz activates the Minnesota National Guard. Police abandon the 3rd Precinct station as protesters overtake it and set it on fire.\nMay 29 — Chauvin is arrested and charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter. President Donald Trump tweets about “thugs” in Minneapolis protests and warns: “When the looting starts, the shooting starts.” Protests turn violent again in Minneapolis and elsewhere.\nMay 30 — Trump tries to walk back his tweet. Protests continue nationwide and some turn violent.\nMay 31 — Walz says Attorney General Keith Ellison will lead prosecutions in Floyd’s death. The nationwide protests continue.\nJune 1 — The county medical examiner finds that Floyd’s heart stopped as police restrained him and compressed his neck, noting Floyd had underlying health issues and listing fentanyl and methamphetamine use as “other significant conditions.”\nJune 2 — Minnesota’s Department of Human Rights launches a civil rights investigation into the Minneapolis Police Department.\nJune 3 — Ellison files a tougher second-degree murder charge against Chauvin and charges the other three officers who were involved in Floyd’s arrest.\nJune 4 — A funeral service for Floyd is held in Minneapolis.\nJune 5 — Minneapolis bans chokeholds by police, the first of many changes to be announced in coming months, including an overhaul of the police department’s use-of-force policy.\nJune 6 — Massive, peaceful protests happen nationwide to demand police reform. Services are held for Floyd in Raeford, North Carolina, near his birthplace.\nJune 7 — A majority of Minneapolis City Council members say they support dismantling the police department. The idea later stalls but sparks a national debate over police reform.\nJune 8 — Thousands pay their respects to Floyd in Houston, where he grew up. He’s buried the next day.\nJune 10 — Floyd’s brother testifies before the House Judiciary Committee for police accountability.\nJune 16 — Trump signs an executive order to encourage better police practices and establish a database to track officers with excessive use-of-force complaints.\nJuly 15 — Floyd’s family sues Minneapolis and the four former officers.\nJuly 21 — The Minnesota Legislature passes a broad slate of police accountability measures that includes bans on neck restraints, chokeholds and so-called warrior-style training.\nOct. 7 — Chauvin posts $1 million bond and is released from state prison, sparking more protests.\nNov. 5 — Judge Peter Cahill rejects defense requests to move the officers’ trials.\nJan. 12 — Cahill rules Chauvin will be tried alone due to courtroom capacity issues. The other officers will be tried in August.\nFeb. 12 — City leaders say George Floyd Square, the intersection blocked by barricades since Floyd’s death, will reopen to traffic after Chauvin’s trial.\nMarch 9 — The first potential jurors are questioned for Chauvin’s trial after a day’s delay for pretrial motions.\nMarch 12 — Minneapolis agrees to pay $27 million settlement to Floyd family.\nMarch 19 — Judge declines to delay or move the trial over concerns that the settlement could taint the jury pool.\nMarch 23 — Jury selection completed with 12 jurors and three alternates.\nMarch 29 — Opening statements are given.\nApril 11 — Daunte Wright, a 20-year-old Black man, is fatally shot by a white police officer during a traffic stop in suburban Brooklyn Center, sparking successive days of protest.\nApril 12 — Judge declines request to sequester Chauvin jury immediately due to Wright shooting.\nApril 15 — Testimony ends.\nApril 19 — Closing arguments begin. Jury begins deliberations.\nApril 20 – Jury reaches verdict.}}
{{By Allie Gold Jan 7, 2021\nVice President Pence officially affirmed the election results of President-elect Joe Biden’s win Thursday, after a long night after pro-Trump rioters attacked the Capitol in an attempted coup.\n3:32am, Pence officially cited the results for Biden’s victory in Vermont, which put the Democrat votes past 270 electoral votes leading Congress to confirm him as the next president approximately 15 hours after they went into session.\n“Are there any objections to counting the certificate of the state of Vermont?” Pence asked. There was only silence. “The announcement of the state of the vote by the president of the Senate shall be deemed a sufficient declaration as persons elected president and vice president of the United States,” Pence said at 3:41 a.m.\nBiden and Vice President-elect Kamala D. Harris will be inaugurated Jan. 20 at noon.}}
{{WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump continues to erroneously claim he won the election, and several Republican lawmakers say they plan to help fight the election results in the next step of the certification process.\nThough President-elect Joe Biden won the 2020 presidential election, Trump and several of his allies have claimed, with virtually no evidence, that the election was fraudulent and have pledged to fight when Congress meets today to formally count the votes of the Electoral College.\nMore:Congress is set to certify Biden's election win Jan. 6. Here's what to expect.\nCheck back throughout the day to see which Florida lawmakers have claimed or suggested that they will contest the results during the certification process on Wednesday. The special session begins at 1 p.m. ET.\nU. S. SENATE\nMarco Rubio\nParty: Republican\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nRubio has not commented on today's procedure, but he has acknowledged Biden's win. "Well, that'll be the president-elect's decision obviously," he told reporters when asked about potential Cabinet picks for the Biden administration.\nRubio has also cast doubt on Trump's allegations of fraud, tweeting "Taking days to count legally cast votes is NOT fraud And court challenges to votes cast after the legal voting deadline is NOT suppression."\nRubio, who starts every day by tweeting a Bible verse, offered up a cryptic one about having "courage" on Wednesday.\nRick Scott\nParty: Republican\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nScott said in a statement today that he was concerned about the "situation in Pennsylvania" and that he will likely vote "to sustain the objection to their slate of electors."\nMore:The members of Congress who are planning to object to Joe Biden's Electoral College win\nU.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES\nMatt Gaetz\nParty: Republican\nUS House District: 1st\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nGaetz, one of Trump's most vocal supporters on Capitol Hill, tweeted he will join fellow GOP lawmakers to "OBJECT to electors from states that didn't run clean elections."\nNeal Dunn\nParty: Republican\nUS House District: 2nd\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nU.S. Rep. Neal Dunn said he will stand with dozens of other House Republicans Wednesday afternoon and object to the electoral vote affirming Democrat Joe Biden as President of the United States.\nKatherine Cammack\nParty: Republican\nUS House District: 3rd\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nCammack appeared on Fox & Friends Monday and said she would challenge the vote total, saying without evidence that six states had too many election irregularities.\nJohn Rutherford\nParty: Republican\nUS House District: 4th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nRutherford tweeted that he will object to Electoral College results showing Biden won the presidential election.\n"On January 6th, I will join my colleagues in objecting to any electors from states where serious allegations of election fraud exist and in some cases civil litigation remains pending."\nAl Lawson\nParty: Democrat\nUS House District: 5th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nLawson referred to the challenge as the worst form of political grandstanding and sour grapes he has ever seen as an athlete, coach or politician.\n"A sad day for democracy. A sad day for the American people," Lawson said in an email exchange about the drama unfolding on Capitol Hill.\nMichael Waltz\nParty: Republican\nUS House District: 6th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nWaltz tweeted yesterday that he will object to some of the electors.\nStephanie Murphy\nParty: Democrat\nUS House District: 7th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nMurphy has spoken against the objections, saying "This is an act of political cowardice. History will not be kind to them."\nBill Posey\nParty: Republican\nUS House District: 8th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\n“There has not been a serious investigation by federal agencies into the growing body of evidence of election fraud," Posey told USA TODAY Network paper TCPalm in a statement Monday, "and among the court cases dismissed, most were dismissed on technical grounds rather than review of evidence of fraud, thus I will object as the evidence must be examined."\nMore:Reps. Posey, Mast ready to vote against certifying fair election, call for investigations\nDarren Soto\nParty: Republican\nUS House District: 9th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nSoto tweeted yesterday, "@HouseDemocrats Majority will defend the American people, our Constitution & our democracy. We’ll ensure Electoral College is fully counted despite @HouseGOP plot overturn it. When our republic is threatened, we will stand up to protect it!"\nVal Demings\nParty: Democrat\nUS House District: 10th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nDemings has made her position clear.\nDaniel Webster\nParty: Republican\nUS House District: 11th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nWhile Webster backed a Texas lawsuit asking the U.S. Supreme Court to throw out President-elect Joe Biden’s victory over Donald Trump, he has not yet said if he will object today.\nGus Bilirakis\nParty: Republican\nUS House District: 12th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nBilirakis, who also supported the Texas lawsuit, has not yet made public comments about today's count.\nCharlie Crist\nParty: Democrat\nUS House District: 13th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nCrist has long been a Biden supporter, he is not likely to object.\nKathy Castor\nParty: Democrat\nUS House District: 14th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nAfter the recording of President Trump speaking to Georgia State Attorney Brad Raffensberger came to light, Castor tweeted, "Dishonest and depraved until the very end. Hearing this, how can GOP members allow this anti-democratic, seditious charade to continue?"\nScott Franklin\nParty: Republican\nUS House District: 15th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nFranklin announced Monday that he will join fellow Republicans in challenging the results of the 2020 election on Wednesday.\n"Following the election, there has been a lack of transparency in counting votes in several states that merit closer scrutiny," Franklin said in a statement. "For that reason, I will join my Republican colleagues in challenging the results of the 2020 presidential election to ensure that there is a fair election process that counts every legally casted vote."\nMore:Lakeland Rep. Scott Franklin to join other Republicans in challenging 2020 election\nVern Buchanon\nParty: Republican\nUS House District: 16th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nBuchanon has acknowledged Joe Biden as president-elect and said he expects a peaceful transition of power. But while he has not said he would object today, he referred to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi's comments from 15 years ago when she debated election reform on the House floor:\n“For anyone who thinks Congress lacks the moral or constitutional authority to question the Election College certification, I refer you to Nancy Pelosi’s statement in 2005 when she called such an action ‘democracy at work,’” he said in a prepared statement Monday.\nGregory Steube\nParty: Republican\nUS House District: 17th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nSteube said in a news release Wednesday that he will object to certifying the Electoral College votes of Georgia, Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin, key swing states that were carried by Democrat Joe Biden.\nBrian Mast\nParty: Republican\nUS House District: 18th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes? YES\n"It’s clear that Congress only intends to act when it will hurt President Trump, and I will not go along with this farce, " Mast said in his statement. "Therefore, in the absence of a congressional investigation into fraud in the 2020 presidential election, I will oppose certifying the results."\nByron Donalds\nParty: Republican\nUS House District: 19th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nDonalds wrote in a statement he will object to the certification to "ask legitimate questions to restore faith in our election system."\n"Unlike my Democratic colleagues," he continued, "I refuse to turn a blind eye to the fact that several states, including the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, neglected the oath of their constitution and the United States Constitution to follow their election laws."\nAlcee Hastings\nParty: Democrat\nUS House District: 20th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nHastings is unlikely to object to the electoral count.\nLois Frankel\nParty: Democrat\nUS House District: 21st\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\n"President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris won the 2020 election decisively, with a historic margin of victory," Frankle tweeted today. "Today, I will proudly defend our democracy and the will of the voters to certify these election results.\nTheodore "Ted" Deutch\nParty: Democrat\nUS House District: 22nd\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\n"Today, the House and Senate will certify President-elect Biden’s historic victory.," Deutch tweeted today.\nDebbie Wasserman Schultz\nParty: Democrat\nUS House District: 23rd\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes:\nWasserman Schulz tweeted earlier this week, "The 11 GOP Senators who will undermine our democracy this Wednesday will get the same result as every Trump lawsuit: another embarrassing loss. A fitting end to the Trump presidency." She also called for a formal congressional censure Tuesday of U.S. Rep. Louie Gohmert, who suggested “violence in the streets” may be the only way to prevent President-elect Joe Biden from taking office.\nFrederica Wilson\nParty: Democrat\nUS House District: 24th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nWilson is highly unlikely to object. As she pointed out, "To call the presidential election fraudulent would declare my very own election fraudulent and disenfranchise my constituents!"\nMario Diaz-Balart\nParty: Republican\nUS House District: 25th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nDiaz-Balart has not made public comments about today's count.\nCarlos Giménez\nParty: Republican\nUS House District: 26th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nGiménez said on CNN Friday that he was undecided, but said that he believed some of the evidence had not been brought to court and that he would "vote my conscience."\nMaria Salazar\nParty: Republican\nUS House District: 27th\nObjecting to the Electoral College votes?\nSalazar, diagnosed with COVID-19 and heart arrhythmia Dec. 23, has not made any public comments about today's procedure.}}
{{“These THUGS are dishonoring the memory of George Floyd, and I won’t let that happen. Just spoke to Governor Tim Walz and told him that the Military is with him all the way. Any difficulty and we will assume control but, when the looting starts, the shooting starts. Thank you!” reads the post in question.}}
{{California certified its presidential election Friday and appointed 55 electors pledged to vote for Democrat Joe Biden, officially handing him the Electoral College majority needed to win the White House.\nSecretary of State Alex Padilla's formal approval of Biden's win in the state brought Biden’s tally of pledged electors so far to 279, according to a tally by The Associated Press. That's just over the 270 threshold for victory.\nThese steps in the election are often-ignored formalities. But the hidden mechanics of electing a U.S. president have drawn new scrutiny this year as President Donald Trump continues to deny Biden's victory and pursues increasingly specious legal strategies aimed at overturning the results before they are finalized.\nAlthough it's been apparent for weeks that Biden won the presidential election, his accrual of more than 270 electors is the first step toward the White House, said Edward B. Foley, a law professor at Ohio State University.\n"It is a legal milestone and the first milestone that has that status," Foley said. "Everything prior to that was premised on what we call projections."\nThe electors named Friday will meet Dec. 14, along with counterparts in each state, to formally vote for the next president. Most states have laws binding their electors to the winner of the popular vote in their state, measures that were upheld by a Supreme Court decision this year. There have been no suggestions that any of Biden's pledged electors would contemplate not voting for him.\nResults of the Electoral College vote are due to be received, and typically approved, by Congress on Jan. 6. Although lawmakers can object to accepting the electors' votes, it would be almost impossible for Biden to be blocked at that point.\nThe Democratic-controlled House and Republican-controlled Senate would both vote separately to resolve any disputes. One already has arisen from Pennsylvania, where 75 Republican lawmakers signed a statement on Friday urging Congress to block the state's electoral votes from being cast for Biden. But the state's Republican U.S. senator, Pat Toomey, said soon afterward that he would not be objecting to Pennsylvania's slate of electors, underscoring the difficulty in trying to change the election results through Congress.\n"As a practical matter, we know that Joe Biden is going to be inaugurated on January 20," Foley said.\nThat was clear in the days after the election, when the count of mail ballots gradually made clear that Biden had won victories in enough states to win the Electoral College. It became even more apparent in late November, when every swing state won by Biden certified him as the winner of its elections and appointed his electors to the Electoral College. Trump has fruitlessly tried to stop those states from certifying Biden as the winner and appointing electors for the former vice president.\nTrump made no effort in deeply Democratic California, the most populous state in the nation and the trove of its largest number of electoral votes. Three more states won by Biden — Colorado, Hawaii and New Jersey — have not yet certified their results. When they do, Biden will have 306 Electoral College votes to Trump's 232.\nTrump and his allies have brought at least 50 legal cases trying to overturn results in the swing states Biden won — mainly Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. More than 30 have been rejected or dropped, according to an AP tally.\nTrump and his allies have also raised the far-fetched notion that Republican state legislatures in those states could appoint a rival set of electors pledged to Trump.\nBut state Republican leaders have rejected that approach, and it would likely be futile in any case. According to federal law, both chambers of Congress would need to vote to accept a competing slate of electors. If they don't, the electors appointed by the states' governors — all pledged to Biden in these cases — must be used.\nThe last remaining move to block the election would be the quixotic effort to vote down the electors in Congress.\nThis tactic has been tried — a handful of congressional Democrats in 2000, 2004 and 2016 objected to officially making both George W. Bush and Trump president. But the numbers were not enough to block the two men from taking office.}}
{{President Donald Trump speaks about the election after presenting the Medal of Freedom to former college football coach Lou Holtz in the Oval Office of the White House on December 3, 2020 in Washington, DC.\nPresident Donald Trump told a crowd of supporters in October that if he really wanted to overcome Joe Biden's fundraising supremacy, he could call the heads of any major company and they would come to his aid.\n"All I have to do is call up the head of every Wall Street firm, head of every major company, the head of every major energy company, 'Do me a favor, send me $10 million for my campaign.' Yes, sir,'" Trump told a crowd of supporters in Arizona in October .\nHowever, new Federal Election Commission records, tracking fundraising from Oct. 15 until Nov. 23, shows that many wealthy GOP financiers largely did not help Trump in the final weeks of the bruising battle with Biden as he dropped in the polls, or parachute in millions toward his current legal fight.\nIt's the latest sign that many executives could be ready to work with President-elect Biden. In the case of the legal fight, some of the leading party donors had previously maxed out to the campaign and Republican National Committee, leaving Trump's political team unable to turn to them for financial assistance.\nThe Trump campaign, the Republican National Committee, his two joint fundraising committees and the president's leadership committee, Save America, raised over $200 million since Election Day. Save America will likely be used to fund any political initiatives Trump is planning after he leaves the White House, including possibly running for president again in 2024.\nTrump's fraud pitch, while apparently not moving many business leaders, appears to be resonating with small dollar donors, who may be convinced that their money is going expressly to the fraud fight, and likely provided much of the money raised in the period.\nSteve Schwarzman, the CEO of private equity behemoth Blackstone, and a longtime Trump confidant, did not contribute to any pro-Trump groups in recent weeks, according to election filings. Instead, he gave $15 million in November to the Senate Leadership Fund, a super PAC aligned with Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky.\nAs CNBC reported, Schwarzman was one of the many Wall Street executives who walked away from helping Trump in the final stretch of the election. Schwarzman said in late November that, after supporting the president for the past four years, he's now ready to move on to "help President-elect Biden and his team as they confront the significant challenges of rebuilding our post-Covid economy."\nSince Election Day on Nov. 3, the Trump campaign has initiated dozens of legal fights in states Biden has been deemed the winner, including in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Georgia. Trump and his allies have lost or withdrawn essentially every court case related to the election, failing to invalidate any votes for Biden.\nAttorney General William Barr this week said that the Justice Department has found no evidence of widespread ballot fraud, much less any fraud that would overturn Biden's projected victory. The campaign spent millions on legal fees linked to the "recount," filings say, including $600,000 that went toward the law firm Kasowitz Benson Torres. The firm was founded by longtime Trump attorney, Marc Kasowitz.\nThe Trump campaign requested a partial recount in Wisconsin, for which it paid $3 million.\nBut Reuters reported last month that large chunks of contributions are, in fact, not going towards efforts to overturn the election results and instead heading toward Save America or the Republican National Committee. The fine print on the Trump election defense fund donation page says that "75% of each contribution [goes] first to Save America, up to $5,000," suggesting that a majority of contributions to the legal matter actually go to Trump's committee for other purposes.\n"We enjoy unprecedented financial support from an ever-growing group of investors, large and small, because President Trump and Republicans continue to fight on the issues that a majority of Americans care about, most notably ensuring the integrity of our elections and defending the Republican majority in the Senate," Cassie Smedile, RNC Deputy Communications Director, said in a statement.\nRepresentatives for the Trump campaign did not return requests for comment.\nTrump donor Dan Eberhart told CNBC that many Republican business leaders were not interested in investing in a candidate that had fledgling public poll numbers in the final weeks of the election or his next moves in politics. By Election Day, a Real Clear Politics national polling average had Biden up by seven points.\n"Only the crazies still believe," Eberhart told CNBC when discussing who is still giving to Trump. "This is grassroots, true believers," he added.\nA former senior campaign official told CNBC on the condition of anonymity that big money donors that hadn't yet given to the cause, shied away by the end of the campaign because the president wasn't taking part in certain in-person events because of the coronavirus pandemic, and some executives wouldn't attend if he wasn't there. This person declined to be named in order to speak freely.\nSome GOP megadonors had given big earlier in the election cycle toward Trump's joint fundraising committees, which allow donors to write six figure checks, or pro-Trump super PACs, that accept an unlimited amount of money from contributors. Most recently, many decided to spend millions on the battles being waged in both the Senate and House campaigns.\nOf the top Republican big money donors that, combined, gave over $500 million throughout the 2020 election cycle to Trump and other GOP campaigns, only a handful gave to entities supporting the commander-in-chief over the six week time period from mid-October until late November.\nThose few Republican megadonors that did spend heavily for the president in the final weeks of the election include casino magnates Sheldon and Miriam Adelson, who contributed a combined $15 million to the pro-Trump PAC, Preserve America. Bernard Marcus, a co-founder of Home Depot, gave a $5 million contribution to the same PAC. That PAC is currently not involved with the presidents legal battle and records show that those big donations came in the final two weeks of October.\nThe new records show that Miriam Adelson recently gave $106,500 to the RNC, as did Marcus. The Adelsons finished the 2020 election cycle donating at least $200 million toward Republican efforts.\nRichard and Elizabeth Uihlein, the founders of shipping supply company Uline, and longtime Trump supporters, also virtually disappeared in financially assisting the president, recording minimal contributions since mid-October. The couple, who recently tested positive for the coronavirus, had previously spent over $65 million on GOP related causes this cycle.\nTimothy Mellon, the chairman of Pan Am Systems, gave $5 million to the Senate Leadership Fund in November. Pro-Trump groups saw very little from him over that same time period, after he gave millions to the president's cause earlier in the campaign.\nIn September, Ike Perlmutter, chairman of Marvel Entertainment and a reputed outside advisor to Trump on the Department of Veterans Affairs, combined with his wife to give $21 million to America First Action. Since mid-October, records show no sign of the Perlmutters spending in the latter stages of the campaign to help Trump.\nEven some of Trump's friends that supported him in the past seem to be distancing themselves from the president's future endeavors. Ronald Lauder, the heir of Estee Lauder Companies and a friend of Trump's, donated $3.5 million to the Senate Leadership Fund in October. The most recent records show that since the late stages of the election, he has not given anything to the president.\nCNBC reported in August that Lauder has gone quiet on supporting Trump.}}
{{Erin Schaff-Pool/Getty Images President Donald Trump speaks during a meeting with industry executives on the reopening of the US economy in the State Dining Room May 29, 2020 in Washington, DC before protests erupted across the country.\nPresident Donald Trump spoke out on the protest over George Floyd’s death that gathered demonstrators in Washington DC, specifically across from the White House.\nTrump posted a series of tweets commending agents from the Secret Service for protection before warning protestors they could have been targeted with “the most vicious dogs, and most ominous weapons.”\nThe president also claimed without evidence that members of the crowd were “professionally managed so-called ‘protesters'” who “had little to do with the memory of George Floyd.”\nVisit Business Insider’s homepage for more stories.\nPresident Donald Trump commented on the protests that raged outside the White House late Friday by commending Secret Service agents on their response before warning protestors.\nIn a series of tweets posted Saturday morning, Trump praised the agents as “totally professional” and “very cool” before warning protestors that if any had approached the White House fence, they “would have been greeted with the most vicious dogs, and most ominous weapons, I have ever seen.”\n….got too frisky or out of line, they would quickly come down on them, hard – didn’t know what hit them. The front line was replaced with fresh agents, like magic. Big crowd, professionally organized, but nobody came close to breaching the fence. If they had they would…. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2020\nPhotos and reports from the Friday evening demonstration outside the White House show demonstrators confronting Secret Service agents and US park police officers, who were armed in riot gear and extensive barricades in the city’s Lafayette Square.\nThe Associated Press reported that there were hundreds of people present, chanting “No justice, no peace” and “Say his name: George Floyd” for several hours before police forced them to disband by pushing demonstrators back and firing pepper spray.\nTrump said on Twitter that he watched the demonstration from the Executive Mansion and saw authorities did a “great job”.\nTrump then took aim at Washington DC Mayor Muriel Bowser, who he claimed is “who is always looking for money & help,” but “wouldn’t let the DC Police get involved.”\n….good practice.” As you saw last night, they were very cool & very professional. Never let it get out of hand. Thank you! On the bad side, the D.C. Mayor, @MurielBowser, who is always looking for money & help, wouldn’t let the D.C. Police get involved. “Not their job.” Nice! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2020\nBowser fired back in a tweet soon after, “my police department will always protect DC and all who are in it whether I agree with them (such as those exercising their First Amendment Right) or those I don’t (namely, @realdonaldtrump).”\nThe Secret Service said in a statement released Saturday that its officers worked with Metropolitan Police Department and the US Park Police at the demonstration, where six people were arrested.\n“Some of the demonstrators were violent, assaulting Secret Service Officers and Special Agents with bricks, rocks, bottles, fireworks, and other items,” the statement said. “Multiple Secret Service Uniformed Division Officers and Special Agents sustained injuries from this violence.”\n“The Secret Service respects the right to assemble, and we ask that individuals do so peacefully for the safety of all,” the statement concluded.\nThe demonstrators in Washington DC were just a few of the crowds that swallowed areas of cities across the US in violent protests to push back on the death of George Floyd after he was taken into police custody in Minneapolis.\nFloyd’s arrest was caught on video, which shows a white officer kneeling on his neck for nearly nine minutes. Officer Derek Chauvin has since been charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter.\nIn subsequent tweets, Trump took aim at the demonstrators, claiming without evidence that they were “professionally managed so-called ‘protesters'” who “had little to do with the memory of George Floyd.” He then appeared to reference a gathering of his supporters at the White House set for Saturday night, but did not elaborate.\n“They were just their [sic] to cause trouble,” Trump wrote. “The @SecretService handled them easily. Tonight, I understand, is MAGA NIGHT AT THE WHITE HOUSE???”\nBusiness Insider Emails & Alerts Site highlights each day to your inbox. Email Address Join\nFollow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram.}}
{{President-elect Biden has previously promised to reverse President Donald Trump’s ban on certain transgender individuals from from serving in the U.S. military, and recent analysis suggested that it could be accomplished in as little as 30 days.\nThe analysis was part of a memo released in July by the Palm Center, a think tank that studies gender and policy issues in the military. According to that memo, the ban would be easily reversed, because under the so-called “Mattis Plan” implemented by the Trump administration, the Pentagon granted exemptions for an estimate 1,600 transgender service members who had already transitioned while serving under the Obama-era “open service” policy.\n“The Department of Defense left all the necessary breadcrumbs to mark the way back to inclusive service,” the memo reads. “DoD’s plan to implement Trump’s ban was always inconsistent because it served contradictory goals. On the one hand, DoD announced from the start that ‘the department will carry out the president’s policy direction,’ which was to return to the prior era of disqualifying transgender Americans from military service. On the other hand, DoD also wanted the flexibility to retain the transgender personnel who were already in service or contracted to join.”\nThe memo was endorsed by nine major military, LGBTQ, and progressive groups who have vocally opposed the Trump restriction: the Center for American Progress, GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders, the Human Rights Campaign, Lambda Legal, the Modern Military Association of America, the National Center for Lesbian Rights, the National Center for Transgender Equality, Service Members, Partners, Allies for Respect and Tolerance for All (SPART*A), and Transgender American Veterans Association.\nAaron Belkin, director of the Palm Center, says that the reason Biden could act so quickly is because Trump’s ban represents a “very rare, if not unique situation” in which reversing it wouldn’t require development of “any new policies.”\n“[The military] doesn’t need to do anything differently,” Belkin says. “The only thing that need to be done in order to make sure that all transgender troops can serve equally is to cancel the Trump ban.\n“So, in other words, just rip the Trump ban out of regulations and leave the inclusive regulations in place,” he adds. “The Pentagon is already providing medical care to grandfathered troops, that the Pentagon already has standards for grooming. The Pentagon already has policies around gender transition. So just leave that stuff in place, because it’s all good policy.”\nBelkin notes that unlike in 2015, when the Pentagon had to study and examine how to write regulations to allow transgender troops to serve, or prior to 2011, when it had to do the same for gay, lesbian, and bisexual service members, the leg work has already been done.\n“In 99 percent of cases when you implement new military policy, you do need to study the situation carefully and go through a very deliberate policy formulation and implementation process,” Belkin says. “But that was already done with inclusive policy for transgender personnel under the Obama administration.\n“Some people may not realize that the trans ban did not replace inclusive policy. It just superseded inclusive policy by layering discrimination on top of inclusive policy. So all you need to do is literally just erase the discriminatory language out of the regulations and leave the underlying inclusive policy in place.”\nSee also: 116 members of Congress call for end to transgender military ban\nAdvocates of open service who were critical of the Trump administration’s ban have had their opinions bolstered by a new study finding that — contrary to the Pentagon’s ultimate goal of preserving military readiness — the restrictions on transgender service members ended up “compromising recruitment, reputation, retention, unit cohesion, morale, medical care, and good order and discipline.”\nThat study, co-authored by three former military Surgeons General — Vice Admiral Donald Arthur, of the U.S. Navy, Gale Pollock, of the U.S. Army, and Rear Admiral Alan Steinman, of the U.S. Coast Guard — as well as Palm Center scholars, who analyzed retention and recruitment patterns, based on data from the Pentagon, surveyed active-duty trans service members, and interviewed other military personnel to reach their conclusions.\nAmong their findings were that the trans ban artificially constricted the military recruiting pool by categorically disqualifying out transgender individuals from enlisting, placed unnecessary burdens on serving personnel, undermined unit cohesion and moral by enabling harassment and promoting stigma against trans personnel, and undermined leadership by creating separate and often conflicting standards and rules.\nLt. Col. Bree Fram, an active-duty astronautical engineer in the U.S. Air Force, for 18 years, is one of those few 1,600 trans service members currently exempt from the Trump administration’s ban. She currently serves as vice president and communications director for SPART*A, which has been urging President-elect Biden to reverse the Trump-era policy.\n“This is what we’ve been looking forward to, and hoping that the example of our service would lead to, getting back to a policy of open service where everyone has the chance to reach their full potential as a service member,” Fram tells Metro Weekly. “We’re confident that the the Biden administration will follow through on this and will quickly return us to the 2016 policy of open service. And then from there, we can work to improve that, to make sure it is fit for the times and does aid us in making sure that everyone can be the best soldier, sailor, airman, Marine, Coastguardsman, space professional that they can be and that we’re bringing in the best and brightest to defend this nation.”\nFram says reversing the open service policy could be as simple as “the stroke of a pen.” She believes that the change in policy would be welcome be most service members.\nWhile it’s disheartening to have her country’s commander-in-chief tweet that transgender people are a “burden” on the military, without any evidence to support his claims, Fram says Trump’s hostility towards trans people has pushed her to prove her capability.\n“If you look at the past few years, and what they’ve done for public opinion, both in American writ-large and in the military, by shining a spotlight on our service, it highlighted the way transgender people have contributed to the military in the past, and the way we contribute to accomplishing the mission today,” Fram says. “And that quality is the most valued thing in the military: can you help us get the mission done? And transgender people are showing that day in and day out.”\n“L,” a transgender Army service member who is currently serving but is not eligible for an exemption, meaning that if he chooses to openly pursue his transition while the current policy is in place, he would be deemed “medically unfit” to serve and could be discharged. He was officially diagnosed with gender dysphoria earlier this year, but had to speak to two separate psychiatrists and undergo six months of therapy before being diagnosed.\n“It’s been very lonely,” L says of his status in the military. “A lot of my friends in the transgender community are exempt, so they are able to transition or they have been transitioning for several years now. So I don’t really have anybody who’s in the same position that I am.\nSee also: Trump’s press secretary praises his “great record” with LGBTQ community while ignoring trans military ban\n“It can be difficult,” he adds, noting that he’s out to his chain of command. “Some days I’ve had some leadership that didn’t take very well to it, but most of my chain of command is actually very supportive. Most of them are making efforts to call me by male pronouns, as I’ve asked. Per the current policy, I can’t change my gender marker, and I can’t undergo any sort of medical treatment for gender dysphoria.\n“The only thing I can really do is ask people to call me by those pronouns. But because it’s not a regulation, they technically don’t have to actually adhere to that. So it’s been very frustrating, because I know it’s just something I kind of have to live with right now.”\nL says he’s hopeful that a change of policy under a Biden-Harris administration would ensure his ability to remain in the military without fear of reprisal.\n“If I can serve as myself, I feel like I would be able to be the best soldier I can possibly be. I would be it would be the best leader I could possibly be,” he says.\nHe is skeptical of the idea that President-elect Biden would change the policy within the first 30 days, even if he potentially could, saying he expects it to take 90-100 days into the new administration.\nL would ideally like to continue with his transition, and would even be willing to delay it if needed for deployment or special training. But his ability to pursue treatment would be at the discretion of his commander. He says the current policy creates problems for his doctors, who know how to help him but are prohibited from prescribing hormones at the current time, making them feel like they can’t perform their job to the best of their ability.\nHe adds that undergoing hormone therapy would not compromise his ability to do his job or require him to receive special accommodations, nor would his treatment create a financial burden for the military, as President Trump has previously alleged.\n“Once I’m stable on hormones, which can happen as soon as three months, I can just continue to get them from the pharmacy,” he says. “The Army actually spends more on erectile dysfunction than they could on treating gender dysphoria in the military. So it’s one of the only things that has come in under budget.”\nNic Talbott, a 20-year-old college student from Lisbon, Ohio who was forced to quit Army ROTC last April due to the ban on transgender service members, is hopeful that a Biden-Harris administration will follow through on its promise to reverse the policy.\n“For me, the lifting of the ban would mean that I could finally start my career. I could finally have the chance to enlist in the United States military and be treated just like everybody else and be evaluated based on my skills and my merits rather than my identity,” Talbott tells Metro Weekly.\nTalbott, who is currently a full-time graduate student at Kent State University, feels the ban has stalled his career and his hopes of graduating from ROTC and commissioning as an officer.\n“I’m currently living and working on my family’s farm,” he says. “And I try to keep myself busy with things like exercise in order to stay physically fit for when the ban is finally lifted.”\nHe agrees with the Palm Center that the policy change could happen fairly rapidly.\n“We have thousands of transgender people already serving in the military and we have 18 allied countries who already openly allow transgender military service,” he notes. “So this is something that we could deploy very quickly in our own military.\n“I think the Biden-Harris administration recognizes that and will make the decision to implement this as quickly as possible. I know they have a lot on their plate, and they have a lot of work to do, but I’m hoping this is something that they can roll out quickly early on in their administration.”\nRead more:\nDC Eagle trademark bought by Duplex Diner co-owner\nAnti-gay Hungarian politician caught fleeing from police raid on gay sex orgy\nAnti-LGBTQ school board member ends career on bum note}}
{{OJ Simpson on Tuesday said he believes former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin "deserves" to be convicted for the death of George Floyd, while also reacting to recent comments made by Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., who is facing criticism for encouraging protesters to "stay on the street" and to "get more confrontational."\nSimpson, 73, made the remarks in a video posted to his Twitter account with the caption: "Verdict Watch."\nJurors in the Chauvin trial began deliberations Monday after weeks of testimony from dozens of witnesses. He is charged with second-degree unintentional murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter in connection with the May 25, 2020 death of Floyd. The trial came after nearly a year of protests and riots over video footage showing Chauvin pinning his knee on Floyd's neck. A verdict was expected to be announced Tuesday.\nIn his video, Simpson said he hoped there is "some kind of verdict, a conviction. I think the man deserves it."\nHOUSE DEMOCRATS HAVE PROBLEM WITH WATERS AFTER JUDGE CALLS HER OUT\n"I thought it was a classic case of depraved indifference. I thought it was unnecessary force and no matter which side you're on, I think everybody would pretty much have to agree that if those deputies and Chauvin would have gotten off of George Floyd, there was no chance George Floyd was going to get up and try to run... try to attack them in handcuffs, " he said. "That didn't seem to be his personality."\n"It seemed that the only problem was that, he has a little problem with claustrophobia, I guess, and the smallness of the backseat of that (police) car, which had to be pretty tough on a guy his size," he continued.\nSimpson also commented on the ongoing criticism of Waters, who has come under fire from conservatives for what they see as charged rhetoric before demonstrators in Minnesota. She made the remarks over the weekend when she traveled to the state to support demonstrators protesting against the killing of Daunte Wright.\n"We’ve got to stay on the street," Waters said. "And we’ve got to get more active. We’ve got to get more confrontational. We’ve got to make sure that they know that we mean business."\nGOP LEADER MCCARTHY PLANS TO INTRODUCE RESOLUTION TO CENSURE WATERS OVER ‘DANGEROUS’ RHETORIC\nThe remarks came after days of unrest and clashes between demonstrators and authorities in Brooklyn Center.\nChauvin's defense attorney Eric Nelson requested a mistrial Monday, saying her comments and the extensive media coverage of the trial could have influenced the jury.\n"I just don't know how this jury can really be… that they are free from the taint of this," Nelson told Hennepin County Judge Peter Cahill. "Now that we U.S. representatives threatening acts of in relation to this specific case. It’s mind-boggling."\nIn response, Cahill acknowledged Waters' comments could work in Chauvin's favor if he's convicted.\n"I’ll give you that Congresswoman Waters may have given you something on appeal that may result in this whole trial being overturned," he said. "I wish elected officials would stop talking about this case. Especially in a manner that is disrespectful to the rule of law and to the judicial branch in our function."\nSimpson said he believes Water's comments were not meant to incite violence\n"I understood what she was saying. It was a call to arms," he said. "Not to necessarily physical arms but a call to come out and work and vote.\n"But she's got to understand that her words matter and she's got to be a lot clear about how she says them because you can't be critical of the other side during the (Jan. 6 Capitol) insurrection when they were saying 'Get out and fight,' 'You've got to fight,' and criticize what they were saying when they claimed later on that they meant pretty much what Maxine Waters meant," he added. "You would think these politicians could communicate a lot better than evidently than they've been doing."\nCLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP\nSimpson's murder trial in the 1990s lasted nearly nine months and received worldwide media coverage. The proceedings became a defining moment on race and policing in America, with Los Angeles still reeling from the 1992 riots after four white LAPD officers were acquitted of beating Rodney King.\nJurors acquitted him of the murders of his ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend Ronald Goldman after less than four hours of deliberation.\nYears later, Simpson was convicted of armed robbery and other charges and was released from a Nevada prison in 2017 after nine years.}}
{{While President-elect Joe Biden garnered more votes than any other presidential candidate in history, it may not have been the voters alone that put Biden over the edge to victory.}}
{{PEORIA, Ill. (WMBD) — A group against gun violence organized a peaceful protest, set to happen downtown Peoria on Saturday at 1 p.m. The New Generation Black Panthers met at Glen Oak Park Friday to make posters and organized the rally. They called on allies to support the cause.\nThe group says they will meet at the Gateway Building and plan to march from there to the Peoria County Courthouse. Adding, they will march for George Floyd, every victim of police brutality and every person of color killed unjustly.\n“We’ve seen time again police brutality, black on black crime, gun violence and it needs to stop and it needs to end in peoria, there’s gun violence everyday it needs to be addressed this is not only for George Floyd, but this is for every african american who has lost their life to gun violence,” Mariah Cooley member of New Generation Black Panthers said.\nThe group said they hope to gain solidarity in Peoria and send a message across the country.}}
{{George Floyd was my neighbor.\nNo, he didn't live next door to me, but Minneapolis is my home and it was his home too — until he died this week at the hands of police officers who seemed more intent on displaying their power than on following their code to protect and serve.\nDon't hear me wrong. I pray for and want to support any man or woman who puts on a uniform and places themselves in harm's way. But with great power, comes great responsibility. Mr. Floyd is now dead because of an egregious act of injustice.\nNow our city is hurting after this miscarriage of justice, and many are taking their anger to the streets in ways that are destructive and causing further harm. Yet for those of us who are witnessing what is taking place in the streets of Minneapolis and feel an urge to immediately condemn the people who are expressing their anger and hurt, we should remember what Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. said on March 14, 1968: "A riot is the language of the unheard."\nOur hearts should break for those who are afraid, for those who have been discriminated against and marginalized for far too long. If anything, this is a moment for all of us to empathize with the hurt of our fellow Americans of color.\nAs a white man, I will never understand what it is like to be followed in a store, abused, harassed, or afraid of my loved ones being mistreated because of the color of their skin. But that doesn't mean I can't speak up, pray, lend a hand, and do whatever I can to work toward justice, unity, equity, and peace.\nFor all my friends who live outside of Minneapolis, unsure of how to respond, here are three action steps I would encourage:\n1. Pray and Repent\nThe first prayer I encourage you to say is the hardest and requires raw honesty from your part: Pray for God to reveal racism in you and repent. Plainly and simply put, racism is sin. Every human being is created in God's image, and if we don't see our neighbors in that light, we need to check our hearts and repent.\nPray for the men, women, and children who are afraid for their lives because of the color of their skin. Mourn with those who mourn.\nAnd pray for our mayor, governor, police officers, first responders, and elected officials. Pray for the safety of those protesting. Pray that the church of the Twin Cities will rise up and lead in this time. I long to see our staff, stages, and budgets built-in ways that demonstrate our belief that all people have value.\n2. Learn About the Pain of Others\nWe shouldn't still have to talk about racism, discrimination, and the profiling of our brothers and sisters of color in 2020. But the facts do not lie and it's our responsibility to bring change. We need to educate ourselves, to humble ourselves to learn from and about another person's experience.\nI encourage you to pick up a book, listen to a podcast, or talk with someone who knows about the history of racism, privilege, and discrimination in America. Seek relationships with those who are different from you and learn how to love your neighbor.\n⠀\n3. Support Causes That Promote Reconciliation and Unity\nA great Minneapolis effort to help the urban church is called the One Fund. I also support a mentorship and training organization for black young men in Minneapolis called The Man Up Club, which is led by my friend Korey "XROSS" Dean. Nationally, I love the work of the AND Campaign, and my friend Justin E. Giboney. There are countless groups you can learn from and support. ⠀\n⠀\nTo all of my friends who are afraid and angry, I am sorry. I am praying for justice. More than that, I am praying for the family of George Floyd. May the Twin Cities and our nation be brought together during this time, rather than torn further apart. May we repent of our sin and learn to love one another.\nNick Hall is the visionary of the Together movement, the Year of the Bible campaign, and Pulse, a ministry at the center of the largest millennial-led prayer and outreach efforts in the world. He is the president and CEO of The Table Coalition and sits on the board of the National Association of Evangelicals.}}
{{NEW YORK CITY (WABC) -- Early voting in New York ends Sunday, and all around New York City, long lines persist as people show up in record numbers to cast their vote.More than a million people have voted in New York City, and 3 million statewide so far. Those numbers will be much higher when all the early votes are counted.New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy explains why so many people have cast their votes early and what might happen if either President Donald Trump or Former Vice President Joe Biden win the Presidential Election.Also, a heated Senate race is overshadowed by the Presidential election. Will Republicans continue to hold their small majority?Many Republicans worry that if President Trump doesn't do well on Tuesday, the other ballot races could suffer.Democrats need to gain four Senate seats if Mr. Biden loses, and three if he wins because the tie-breaking vote would be the Vice President.Kirsten Gillibrand, junior United States Senator from New York, explains the possibilities of what might happen if the Democrats win control of the White House.Plus, old friends, Republican Congressman Peter King and Democrat Representative Charles B. Rangel, discuss what President Trump will have to do to win over battleground states.Finally, with only two more days until the election, ABC Political Director Rick Klein and political consultant Hank Sheinkopf explain what both candidates need to win over last-minute voters.Up Close with Bill Ritter airs Sunday mornings at 11:00 on Channel 7.}}
{{Billie Eilish has joined the likes of Drake, Rihanna, Beyonce and others in condemning the killing of black Minnesota man George Floyd, the “Bad Guy” singer taking to social media Saturday in an effort to show solidarity with those protesting in his name while calling out “All Lives Matter” supporters.\n“I’ve been trying to take this week to figure out a way to address this delicately,” Eilish began the heartfelt Instagram post. “I have an enormous platform and I try really hard to be respectful and take time to think through what I say and how I say it…But holy f–king s–t I’m gonna just start talking.\n“IF I HEAR ONE MORE WHITE PERSON SAY ‘aLL liVeS maTtEr’ ONE MORE F–KING TIME IM GONNA LOSE MY F–KING MIND. WILL YOU SHUT THE F–K UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUP???? NO ONE ELSE IS SAYING YOUR LIFE DOESNT MATTER. NO ONE IS SAYING YOUR LIFE IS NOT HARD.\n“If all lives matter why are black people killed for just being black,” she asked. “Why are immigrants persecuted? Why are white people given opportunities that people of other races aren’t…white f–king privilege.”\nThe 18-year-old also explained the reasoning behind “Black Lives Matter,” and why “All Lives Matter” is an unnecessary distraction from the real issue.\n“If your friend gets a cut on their arm are you gonna wait to give all your friends a bandaid first because all arms matter? NO youre gonna help your friend because THEY are in PAIN because THEY are in need because THEY ARE BLEEDING,” she continued. “if someones house was on fire & someone is stuck in the house, are you gonna make the fire department go to every other house on the block first because all houses matter??? NO! BECAUSE THEY DON’T F–KING NEED IT.”}}
{{Users on social media are sharing a video that claims to show a missile provoking an explosion in Beirut on August 4. Some users allege the footage was captured by a “thermal camera”. This claim is false, the video has been digitally manipulated.\nThe doctored video has been viewed thousands of times and shared on Facebook ( archive.vn/FN2D4 ), Twitter ( archive.vn/rSOcP ) and YouTube ( archive.vn/u08ML ). Most of the iterations of the video include a watermark that reads “ronaldreynaldo0@gmail.com”.\nThe video in this claim features an extract of the footage captured by a news camera on August 4. The original, unedited, footage can be seen in the video player on the CNN Arabic website here. Its caption in Arabic reads: “CNN Camera detects the moment of a big explosion in the Lebanese capital Beirut”. The pattern of video zoom and the screeching and crackling sound on the audio exactly matches that of the doctored video.\nThe footage was manipulated to add a negative filter and to include in some frames what appears to be an image of a missile (second 00:08, here ).\nIn a frame-by-frame analysis of the original footage, the alleged projectile is not visible at all. Reuters also tested the application of a similar negative filter to the video, which again revealed no missile.\nSome iterations of the doctored video include a second clip, that allegedly shows the explosion from a much closer angle. Reuters was unable to independently confirm the original source of this second clip. However, the same footage without a negative filter was featured on the website of the Iranian judiciary’s official news agency Mizan Online ( bit.ly/3fCzzew ). A cropped version of the unaltered footage was posted on Instagram here by Lebanese singer Walid Toufic.\nIn the doctored video compilation, this second clip has also been manipulated to include a missile image in some frames. ( here , see second 00:27).\nThe doctored footage has been mostly removed from YouTube for violation of community guidelines. On Twitter, some iterations have also been labeled as “manipulated media”. — Reuters}}
{{WASHINGTON (AP) – The Senate has overwhelmingly turned aside a challenge to President-elect Joe Biden’s victory in Arizona, guaranteeing the result will stand.\nThe objection to the results in Arizona — spearheaded by Rep. Paul Gosar and Sen. Ted Cruz — was rejected 93-6 on Wednesday night. All votes in favor came from Republicans, but after violent protesters mobbed the Capitol earlier Wednesday a number of GOP senators who had planned to support the objection reversed course.\nThe Republicans raised the objection based on false claims pushed by President Donald Trump and others of issues with the vote in Arizona, which were repeatedly dismissed in Arizona’s courts and by the state’s election officials.}}
{{Democrat Joe Biden‘s lead in Arizona has narrowed to just 68,000 votes after a new batch of absentee ballots heavily favored Republican President Donald Trump, giving new life to the Trump camp’s theory that a victory is still possible.\nTrump won the batches of some 140,000 additional ballots from Maricopa County counted Wednesday and early Thursday by a roughly 57-40 margin, nearly exactly the margin he needs in all the state’s outstanding ballots to win.\nAfter the new votes were counted, the statewide totals stood at 1,469,341 votes, or 50.49 percent, for Biden and 1,400,951 votes, or 48.14 percent, for Trump. An estimated 400,000 votes had yet to be tallied in the state as of early Thursday.\nMedia outlets including the Associated Press have already projected Biden as the winner in Arizona, predicting that his current lead is insurmountable — but the latest numbers gave Trump’s boosters hope.\nMaricopa County elections officials and observers watch as ballots are tallied on Wednesday. Trump won news batches of some 140,000 additional ballots from Maricopa County counted Wednesday and early Thursday by a roughly 57-40 margin\nMedia outlets including the Associated Press have already projected Biden as the winner in Arizona, but the latest numbers gave Trump’s boosters hope\nPaul Bentz, a Republican pollster with the consulting firm HighGround, told the Arizona Republic that Trump would have to win 57.6 percent of the outstanding ballots in the state in order to overcome Biden’s lead.\nAlthough that is nearly the exact margin by which Trump won the latest batch of absentee ballots, the Republican would have to replicate that performance across the state, including areas that tilt more Democrat.\n‘He can’t afford really to trip up once, unless the next day suddenly he surges way back,’ Bentz said. ‘It’s a good first day [after the election]. The question is: Can he keep up this pace?’\nBentz said Wednesday was the best the Trump campaign could have hoped for after being down by so much on Tuesday night, and that the president’s campaign still ‘has a shot.’\nIf Trump were to convert Arizona to his column, he could still lose in one of the following states and emerge victorious: Nevada, Georgia or North Carolina.\nWith Arizona for Biden, all three states are must-wins for Trump. In either scenario, Trump must win Pennsylvania to retain the White House.\nEarlier on Wednesday, Trump supporters, some armed with rifles and handguns, gathered outside an election center in Arizona after unsubstantiated rumors that votes for the Republican president were deliberately not being counted.\nChanting ‘Stop the steal!,’ and ‘Count my vote,’ the protesters stood in front of the Maricopa County Elections Department in Phoenix.\nA victory for Biden in Arizona would give the Democrat 11 electoral votes, a major boost in his bid to win the White House, while severely narrowing Trump’s path to re-election, in a state the Republican won in 2016.\nOn Election night Fox News and the Associated Press called Arizona for Biden, even though only just over 70 percent of the vote had been counted, a move that infuriated Trump and his aides.\nSome of the roughly 200 protesters, who were faced by a line of armed county sheriffs, chanted ‘Shame on Fox!.’ Some said they came out after a tweet from Mike Cernovich, a right-wing activist.\nChris Michael, 40, from Gilbert, Arizona, said he came to make sure all votes are counted. He said he wants assurances that the counting was done ‘ethically and legally.’\nEarlier on Wednesday, Trump supporters, some armed with rifles and handguns, gathered outside an election center in Arizona after unsubstantiated rumors that votes for the Republican president were deliberately not being counted\nSupporters of President Donald Trump rally outside the Maricopa County Recorder’s Office Wednesday. They were demanding\nRumors spread on Facebook Tuesday night that some Maricopa votes were not being counted because voters used Sharpie pens to mark their ballots. Local election officials insisted that was not true.\nWith the count still under way in several key states, Trump has accused the Democrats of trying to steal the election and filed lawsuits in several states related to vote-counting.\nA similar scene played out on Wednesday afternoon in downtown Detroit, where city election officials blocked about\n30 people, mostly Republicans, from entering a vote-counting hall amid unfounded claims that the vote count was fraudulent.\nTrump has filed a lawsuit in Michigan to stop vote-counting that the secretary of state called ‘frivolous.’}}
{{Lebanese rescue workers dug through the mangled wreckage of buildings on Wednesday looking for survivors after a massive warehouse sent a devastating wave across Beirut, killing at least 100 people and injuring nearly 4,000.\nOfficials said the toll was expected to rise after Tuesday’s at port warehouses that stored highly explosive material. The was the most powerful ever to rip through Beirut, a city still scarred by civil war three decades ago and reeling from an economic meltdown and a surge in coronavirus infections.\nIt sent a mushroom cloud into the sky and rattled windows on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus, about 100 miles (160 km) away.\nPresident Michel Aoun said 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate, used in fertilisers and bombs, had been stored for six years at the port without safety measures.\nHe told the nation the government was “determined to investigate and expose what happened as soon as possible, to hold the responsible and the negligent accountable, and to sanction them with the most severe punishment.” An official source familiar with preliminary investigations blamed the incident on “inaction and negligence”, saying nothing was done” by committees and judges to order the removal of hazardous material.\nOrdinary Lebanese, who have lost jobs and watched savings evaporate in Lebanon’s financial crisis, blamed politicians who have overseen decades of state corruption and bad governance. “This is a catastrophe for Beirut and ” Beirut’s mayor, Jamal Itani, told Reuters while inspecting damage he estimated ran into billions of dollars. The head of Lebanon’s Red Cross, George Kettani, said at least 100 people were killed and search efforts continued.\nTracing the missing\nRelatives gathered at the cordon to Beirut port seeking information on missing relatives, Lebanon’s MTV footage showed.\nThe intensity of the blast threw victims into the sea where rescue teams tried to recover bodies. Many of those killed were port and custom employees and people working in the area or driving through during the Tuesday evening rush hour.\nFaçades of central Beirut buildings were ripped off, furniture was sucked into streets, and roads were strewn with glass and debris. Cars near the port were flipped over.\n“This is the killer blow for Beirut, we are a disaster zone. My building shuddered, I thought it was an earthquake,” said Bilal, a man in his 60s, in the downtown area.\nFood crisis looms\nThe country’s main grain silo at Beirut port was also destroyed in the blast, leaving the nation with less than a month’s reserves of the grain but enough flour to avoid a crisis, the economy minister said.\nRaoul Nehme told Reuters that needed reserves for at least three months to ensure food security and was looking at other storage areas. “There is no bread or flour crisis,” the minister said. “We have enough inventory and boats on their way to cover the needs of on the long term.” He said grain reserves in Lebanon's remaining silos stood at “a bit less than a month”, but said the destroyed silos had only held 15,000 tonnes of the grain at the time, much less than capacity which one official put at 120,000 tonnes.\nUN agencies are meeting on Wednesday to coordinate relief efforts for Beirut, Tamara al-Rifai, a spokeswoman for the Palestinian refugee agency UNRWA, told Reuters.\nLebanon is trying to transfer immediately four vessels carrying 25,000 tonnes of flour to the port in Tripoli, one official told LBCI news channel.}}
{{ATLANTA >> Protesters burned businesses in Minneapolis. They smashed police cars and windows in Atlanta, broke into police headquarters in Portland, Oregon, and chanted curses at President Donald Trump outside the White House. Thousands also demonstrated peacefully, demanding justice for George Floyd, a black man who died after a white officer pressed a knee into his neck.\nAs anger over Floyd’s killing spread to cities nationwide, local leaders increasingly said they could need help from National Guardsmen or even military police to contain the unrest.\nGeorgia’s governor declared a state of emergency early Saturday to activate the state National Guard as violence flared in Atlanta. Portland Mayor Ted Wheeler also declared an emergency and ordered a nighttime curfew for the city.\nAnother 500 Guard soldiers were mobilized in and around Minneapolis, where Floyd died and an officer faced charges Friday in his death. But after another night of watching fires burn and businesses ransacked, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz said early Saturday that he was moving to activate more than 1,000 more and was considering federal help.\nThe Guard was also on standby in the District of Columbia, where a crowd grew outside the White House and chanted curses at President Donald Trump. Some protesters tried to push through barriers set up by the U.S. Secret Service along Pennsylvania Avenue, and threw bottles and other objects at officers wearing riot gear, who responded with pepper spray.\n“I just feel like he’s just one of many names that we’ve had to create hashtags and T-shirts and campaigns for and I feel like nothing has changed,” district resident Abe Neri said of Floyd. “And so that’s why I’m out here. Yeah, when you say nothing you’re taking the side of the oppressor.”\nMany protesters echoed that frustration, that Floyd’s death was one more in a litany. The anger that seized the nation comes in the wake of the killing in Georgia of Ahmaud Arbery, who was shot after being pursued by a white father and son while running in their neighborhood, and in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic that has thrown millions out of work, killed more than 100,000 people in the U.S. and disproportionately affected black people.\nIn scenes both peaceful and violent across the nation, thousands of protesters chanted “No justice, no peace” and “Say his name. George Floyd.” They hoisted signs reading: “He said I can’t breathe. Justice for George.”\nGeorgia Gov. Brian Kemp tweeted that up to 500 members of the Guard would deploy immediately “to protect people & property in Atlanta.” He said he acted at the request of Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, who earlier appealed in vain for calm.\nSome demonstrators smashed police cars and spray-painted the iconic logo sign at CNN headquarters in downtown Atlanta. At least three officers were hurt and there were multiple arrests, Atlanta police spokesman Carlos Campos said, as protesters shot at officers with BB guns and threw bricks, bottles and knives.\nAtlanta officials said crews were temporarily unable to reach a fire at Del Frisco’s restaurant in the Buckhead neighborhood several miles north because of protesters there.\n“This is not in the spirit of Martin Luther King, Jr.,” Bottoms said. “You are disgracing the life of George Floyd and every other person who has been killed in this country.”\nBottoms was flanked by King’s daughter, Bernice King, and rappers T.I. and Killer Mike.\n“We have to be better than burning down our own homes. Because if we lose Atlanta what have we got?” said Killer Mike, crying as he spoke.\nA person was killed in downtown Detroit just before midnight after someone in an SUV fired shots into a crowd of protesters near the Greektown entertainment district, police said. In Portland, Oregon, protesters broke into police headquarters and authorities said they lit a fire inside. In Virginia’s capital, a police cruiser was set on fire outside Richmond police headquarters, and a city transit spokeswoman said a bus set ablaze was “a total loss,” news outlets reported.\nVideo posted to social media showed New York City officers using batons and shoving protesters down as they took people into custody and cleared streets. One video showed on officer slam a woman to the ground as he walked past her in the street.\nDemonstrators rocked a police van, set it ablaze, scrawled graffiti across its charred body and set it aflame again as officers retreated. Blocks away, protesters used a club to batter another police vehicle. The police department said numerous officers were injured.\nThe names of black people killed by police, including Floyd and Eric Garner, who died on Staten Island in 2014, were on signs and in chants.\n“Our country has a sickness. We have to be out here,” said Brianna Petrisko, among those at lower Manhattan’s Foley Square, where most were wearing masks amid the coronavirus pandemic. “This is the only way we’re going to be heard.”\nProtesters in Houston, where Floyd grew up, included 19-year-old Jimmy Ohaz from the nearby city of Richmond, Texas: “My question is how many more, how many more? I just want to live in a future where we all live in harmony and we’re not oppressed.”\nDemonstrators on the West Coast blocked highways in Los Angeles and Oakland, California.\nAbout 1,000 protesters in Oakland smashed windows, sprayed buildings with “Kill Cops” graffiti and were met with chemical spray from police, who said several officers were injured by projectiles.\nOne Los Angeles officer received medical treatment, police said. An LAPD vehicle had its windows smashed, and at least one city bus was vandalized. Police declared an unlawful assembly throughout downtown, where aerial footage from KTLA-TV showed scored of people corralled by police.\nSan Jose, California, police said that Santa Clara County sheriff’s deputies shot at a fleeing SUV that was shown on video striking protesters, the San Jose Mercury News reported.\nProtesters repeatedly clashed with police in San Jose, said Mayor Sam Liccardo, and police responded with flash-bang grenades and rubber bullets. One officer was hospitalized with a non-life-threatening injury, officials said.\nLiccardo said his city’s officers shared the community’s outrage over Floyd’s death.\n“It was a horrible injustice,” he told the AP.\nPortland, Oregon, police said at least one shooting was tied to the protest, although details weren’t immediately released. Two people were arrested during overnight riots in which protesters set fires throughout downtown and smashed storefront windows, police said, but arrest details were immediately available.\nPolice, who declared the protest a riot, said they deployed gas after people threw projectiles at them.\nMayor Wheeler tweeted a plea to protesters to remain peaceful and said that, while he had left the city to attend to his dying mother, he was heading back. He later declared a state of emergency.\n“Portland, this is not us,” he wrote. “How does this honor the legacy of George Floyd?”}}
{{Demonstrators carried a banner reading "Justice 4 George & all stolen lives; the world is watching".\nMINNEAPOLIS — Court proceedings for the trial of Derek Chauvin began Monday in the Hennepin County Government Center.\nOutside, demonstrators called for justice for George Floyd.\nIn a press release, Twin Cities Coalition 4 Justice 4 Jamar said the march was organized by more than 20 different groups, which will continue to demonstrate during key parts of the trial like opening arguments, closing arguments, and the day a verdict is announced.\n"We will not rest until we see all four of George Floyd’s killers taken off the streets, and our communities have the power to decide who polices our communities and how our communities are policed," organizers wrote in the description of a Facebook event for the march.\nDemonstrators carried signs and banners with statements including "Justice for George Floyd" and "Black Lives Matter." At the front of the march, a group carried a banner reading "Justice 4 George & all stolen lives; the world is watching".\nIn the release, organizers wrote that they don't "realistically" expect justice from the system -- but that they will keep fighting for it.\nJury selection for the trial of Derek Chauvin was set to begin Monday, but by late morning it had officially been delayed until at least Tuesday. Most of the debate centers around a potential third-degree murder charge that could be added to the case, an issue that is now making its way through the higher courts.\nLIVE TRIAL UPDATES: Prosecutors ask appeals court to delay Derek Chauvin jury selection, court in recess until afternoon\nIn the video above, demonstrators sing "Black lives, they matter here."\nAfter court proceedings end for the day, George Floyd's sister Bridgett Floyd is set to speak to media about the trial. She is the founder of the George Floyd Memorial Foundation and the Floyd family representative present in court Monday.\nAccording to a release from the foundation, Bridgett Floyd will announce several initiatives in Minneapolis for the next several weeks. The foundation provides scholarships and promotes community service -- something Floyd said her brother would have wanted.\nMonday's march follows several weekend events. On Saturday, families of people killed by police gathered outside the Minnesota governor's mansion, and a group of demonstrators marched from 38th and Chicago to the Hennepin County Government Center.\nOn Sunday, demonstrators held a silent march outside the Government Center. Marchers carried signs, flowers, and a replica coffin.\nWhile trial proceedings began Monday, the judge has said the trial itself won't begin until at least March 29.}}
{{(THE BLAZE) Kellie Chauvin, wife of now-former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin, announced through her attorneys on Friday that she is divorcing her husband.\nThe announcement came on the same day that authorities formally arrested the disgraced lawman, charging him with third-degree murder and manslaughter in the death of George Floyd.\nIn a statement, attorneys said that Ms. Chauvin is "devastated" by the death of Floyd and that her "upmost sympathy" is with Floyd's family and "everyone who is grieving this tragedy."\nRead the full story ›}}
{{Amid a worsening economy, food shortages, and the ongoing pandemic, Lebanon faces another crisis after the devastating explosion in Beirut on Tuesday. The blast came from 2,700 tons of ammonium nitrate being stored in a warehouse against advisement from customs officials since 2013. (According to Al Jazeera, ammonium nitrate is often used as a fertilizer and is responsible for "numerous industrial explosions over the decades.")\nAt minimum, the death toll is 135, and 5,000 have been injured. Around 300,000 homes are severely damaged, and the governor of Beirut estimated the financial impact is $3 billion. This catastrophe also wiped out silos of grains that stored nearly 85 percent of the country's supply and decimated the Beirut port, where much of the country's food is imported. According to Farhan Haq, a United Nations spokesperson, the explosion "will significantly exacerbate the economic and food security situation in Lebanon."\nAustralia, Britain, Norway, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Cyprus, Indonesia, Hungary, Tunisia, the Czech Republic, Brazil, Russia, France, Germany, Greece, Poland, the Netherlands, Palestinians in the Gaza Strip, and international organizations like the United Nations have pledged to assist in Lebanon's relief efforts.\nHere's how you can help the massive effort underway in Lebanon as the country enters a two-week state of emergency.:\nHelp Find the Victims\nThis Instagram account posts names and photos of victims who are missing and the contact info of people looking to find them. Sharing these posts and offering any leads can help survivors reunite with those who care about them.\nThis content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.\nShare Resources\nShare maps of shelters and emergency housing available for those whose homes have been damaged and those who need refuge from the destruction. This map has locations of shelters in Beirut. And Twitter user @innterstaellar threaded the information of people offering housing right now.\nThis content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.\na thread of people offering places to stay in for those who have been rendered homeless because of the tragic blast in lebanon and are in dire need of a place to stay at : — ∞ (@innterstaellar) August 4, 2020\nDonate Blood\nIf you're in Lebanon or know people who are, organizations like the Lebanese Red Cross are collecting blood donations. This site has a list of locations that need more donations.\nDonate Money\nIn addition to collecting blood donations, the Lebanese Red Cross provides ambulance services to assist search-and-rescue operations.\nThe Lebanese Food Bank collects food donations from hotels and restaurants and distributes dry food packages to those in need.\nThe World Food Program, which is operated by the United Nations, will help residents obtain food amid the nation's ongoing shortage.\nHumanity and Inclusion's physical therapists, psychologists, and social workers are assisting with post-surgical therapy in Beirut following the explosion.\nInternational Medical Corps has mobilized medical units to offer mental health care to the most vulnerable Lebanese people and Syrian refugees in the country.\nDonations to Islamic Relief help enact a supply chain of food and emergency resources.\nThis content is imported from YouTube. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.\nSave the Children launched a children relief fund to provide basic supplies for kids in Lebanon.\nUNICEF donations will go toward providing vaccines, medical supplies, and drinking water in Beirut. The organization is also offering counseling to children who have been traumatized by the incident.\nThis content is imported from Instagram. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.\nProject HOPE provides protective gear and medical supplies in addition to assisting authorities in Beirut.\nAmel Association offers health and psychological services for refugees and Lebanese citizens. The nonprofit has centers in Beirut and is working to collect food and monetary donations.\nBeit el Baraka operates a free grocery store, provides housing, and assists those in need with covering medical expenses. In response to the port explosion, Beit el Baraka is repairing homes that were damaged.\nIf you have $3,250 earmarked for donations, all proceeds from this Repossi ring engraved with the Lebanon cedar (pictured here) go to the Lebanese Red Cross. This donation is quite sizable, but if you have the resources, it's definitely a worthy cause. Just email sales@repossi.com to get yours.\nShannon Barbour News Writer Shannon is a news writer at Cosmopolitan.com, and when she's not obsessing about Cardi B, she's thinking about Justin Bieber and still trying to memorize Beyoncé's Beychella choreography.\nThis content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io\nThis commenting section is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page. You may be able to find more information on their web site.}}
{{Sign up for our special edition newsletter to get updates on the 2020 presidential election and more\nThe Hunter Biden email scandal first exposed by The Post could prove a key turning point in deciding the presidential election, Sen. Lindsey Graham predicted Sunday.\nThe South Carolina Republican told Fox News that the Democratic candidate’s son and his overseas business deals was one of a handful of key issues creating a new “momentum” for President Trump.\n“I hear Hunter Biden a lot,” Graham told “Sunday Morning Futures,” saying it was making people “reassess the whole Biden campaign.”\n“The Hunter Biden corruption is penetrating with independents,” he said.\nGraham said he was “going to have a hearing with the FBI about ‘Why did you sit on the laptop so long?'” he said, with two computers reportedly seized by investigators.\n“What you see from the business partner of Hunter Biden is corruption at an industrial scale,” he insisted, calling it “influence peddling.”\nSen. Ron Johnson — who chairs one of two Senate panels that examined Hunter Biden’s role in overseas business dealings while his father was vice president — called the scandal a “huge mess.”\n“I take no joy in uncovering the truth about the Bidens,” Johnson told “Sunday Morning Futures.”\n“This is a mess. It’s a huge mess. And it’s a mess that’s not going away, particularly if Vice President Biden becomes president,” he said.\n“It’s one of the reasons why I’ve been saying for quite some time that I never felt that Vice President Biden should never run for president.”\nJohnson questioned why Hunter Biden was not investigated by the FBI years ago.\n“Did they not look into Hunter Biden because of his last name,” he asked, insisting it was a “serious question.” He suggested it proved that “we probably have two systems of justice — one for Democrats and the well-connected, and one for Republicans like President Trump and other Americans.”\nGraham, meanwhile, said he believes energy and fracking will also prove a key issue in deciding Tuesday’s election.\n“The war declared by Biden on oil and gas was maybe the biggest political mistake in a debate in modern history,” he told the Fox show, suggesting that the Democrat’s plans would be a “boom to Russia.”\n“You wanna help Russia? Get America out of the oil and gas business,” he said, suggesting it was “the biggest mistake Biden has made.”\n“I think that alone flips Pennsylvania,” Graham said.\nHe also believes that the recent confirmation of Justice Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court was a huge boost to Republicans.\n“When I mention Amy Barrett’s name, it gets a louder applause than Trump or Graham,” he said, saying she “excites the base.”\nThe 65-year-old also dismissed any concerns of President Trump refusing to give up power were he to lose the election.\n“I’m more worried about the liberals not accepting Trump winning than Trump not transferring power,” he said.\n“If Biden wins he’s gonna increase taxes, he’s gonna kill the economy and they’re gonna lock our country down like Europe,” he said of coronavirus quarantines.}}
{{At least 50 people have been killed and 2,700 more injured in a huge explosion in the Lebanese capital Beirut, according to the country's health minister.\nThe prime minister has called it a "big catastrophe" and vowed for those responsible to pay the price for what has happened.\nGeorge Kettan, head of Lebanon's Red Cross, added there are victims "everywhere - in all the streets and areas near and far" from the blast.\nImage: 'A lot' of people were said to be 'very bloodied'\nFootage posted on social media showed the moment a building several storeys high exploded, sending a vast shockwave across the city that was heard and felt as far away as Cyprus - more than 200km (180 miles) away.\nPictures also showed a scene of devastation with cars upturned and emergency crews gathered around the gutted building.\nAdvertisement\nHuge fireball after secondary Beirut explosion\nThe explosion appeared to be centred around the city's port area containing warehouses, and rippled through several areas of the capital.\nLebanon's internal security chief Abbas Ibrahim said it happened in a building containing highly-explosive materials, according to news agency NNA. Earlier reports had suggested the building was a fireworks storage warehouse.\nWitnesses said a number of people were injured during the widespread destruction across the city, with residents reporting collapsed ceilings and shattered windows.\nA huge column of smoke was seen rising over the city following the explosion.\nWounded people were seen on the ground near Beirut's port, according to a photographer at the scene.\nLocal media also reported one hospital has declared it cannot take any more patients and is appealing for blood donations.\nCars upturned in huge Beirut explosion\nThe cause of the blast, which happened just after 6pm local time (3pm GMT), was not immediately clear.\nPrime Minister Hassan Diab has called for a day of mourning on Wednesday.\nHelicopter drops water on burning docks\nSky News' Middle East editor Zein Ja'far, who was in downtown Beirut at the time of the explosion on Tuesday afternoon, said the "huge explosion" caused windows to "cave in".\n"It tore apart the facade of the building we're in, and once the dust settled we managed to get ourselves and others in this block outside," he said.\nImage: One hospital has stopped taking new patients\n"It was really quite a worrying sight.\n"The sounds of sirens of the fire brigade, ambulances, the police and also the military has been pretty incessant for the last 45 minutes and a huge number of emergency services and security forces are rushing to that area now.\n"A lot of very dazed, very bloodied people are walking around trying to gather their bearings."\nImage: Smoke billowed from the city centre\nOne local, named Fady Roumieh, was stood in a car park of a shopping centre around 2km (1.2 miles) east of the blast.\nHe said: "[It was] like a nuclear bomb. The damage is so widespread and severe all over the city.\n"Some buildings as far as 2km are partially collapsed. It's like a war zone. The damage is extreme. Not one glass window intact."\nAs night fell, a fire still blazed in the port district and ambulance sirens sounded across the city.\nImage: The blast was felt as far away as Cyprus\nForeign Secretary Dominic Raab said the UK is "ready to offer help and support" to those affected.\nIsrael's foreign minister said the country had "nothing to do with the incident" and its defence force added humanitarian and medical assistance is being offered as "this is the time to transcend conflict".\nThe explosion comes as Lebanon experiences its worst economic and financial crisis in decades.\nIt also comes amid rising tensions between Israel and the militant Hezbollah group along Lebanon's southern border.}}
{{Jimmy Kimmel led off his show Friday night not with a typical yuk-filled monologue, but by speaking his mind about the death of George Floyd, the anger directed at police brutality, and a president who seems to do nothing but add fuel to the fire.\nIt was “a scene you’d typically only see in a country that is at war,” he said of Thursday night’s protests in Minneapolis, then he rolled back to explain the roots of the unrest, describing how George Floyd “became the latest in a series of unarmed black men to be killed by a police officer.” He reminded that his alleged crime was using a fake $20 bill, adding that “he may not have even known was a fake $20 bill.”\nFor anyone who might have been on a mountain retreat away from news broadcasts for the past few days, Kimmel summarized the agonizing "loop" of social upheaval. "It goes from 'it isn’t right to kill an unarmed man' to 'it also isn’t right to loot and set fires and attack the police' to 'but the police are attacking us," he said, echoing the internal monologue no doubt shared by many viewers.\nHe then turned his attention to Donald Trump, or, in his words, “our disgusting excuse for a president, Mr. Tough Guy, Donnie Bone Spurs.”\nKimmel commented on Trump’s now-notorious tweet that used the provocative term “thugs” and the phrase “when the looting starts, the shooting starts.” (The tweet was the first to receive an official citation from Twitter for “glorifying violence,” but was allowed to remain accessible “in the public’s interest.”)\nKimmel asked his audience, specifically addressing older members “who have lived this nightmare of race riots already” if "this who you want leading us?” He concluded by showing a monologue from actor Tyler Merritt called Before You Call the Cops.\nMore Great Stories From Vanity Fair\n— The Week the Cameras Stopped: TV in the COVID-19 Era\n— Why Natalie Wood’s Daughter Is Confronting Robert Wagner About Wood’s Death\n— Inside Rock Hudson’s Real-Life Relationship With Agent Henry Wilson\n— How The Mandalorian Fought to Keep Baby Yoda From Being Too Cute\n— A First Look at Charlize Theron’s Immortal Warrior in The Old Guard\n— Back to the Future, Uncut Gems, and More New Titles on Netflix This Month\n— From the Archive: How Rock Hudson and Doris Day Helped Define the Romantic Comedy\nLooking for more? Sign up for our daily Hollywood newsletter and never miss a story.}}
{{CBC\nIt's safe to say much has changed since the Larry O'Brien Trophy travelled north of the border. Three of Toronto's five starters from that team, Kawhi Leonard, Danny Green and Marc Gasol, plus one key bench piece, Serge Ibaka, all left for Los Angeles. The title defence season ended in a seven-game, second-round loss to the Boston Celtics. The Raptors haven't played a game in Toronto since March, and now their home is Tampa Bay.All of which is to say: the Raptors are no longer the pre-pandemic, championship Raptors. Perhaps expectations should change.Monday night's blowout loss to the Celtics laid it bare: another blown double-digit lead, the Raptors' fifth of the season after losing just four times like that last season. Some flashes from Pascal Siakam, but nowhere near his all-NBA form. No signs of Aron Baynes and Alex Len coming close to replacing Gasol and Ibaka's production. A general lack of shot-making. "We gotta do this ourselves and probably do a little soul-searching and look ourselves in the mirror and ask what each individual could do better to help contribute to the team and go out there and figure out ways to win," Fred VanVleet said after the game. "That's one thing we gotta do, we just gotta find ways to get the job done, there's no secret recipe, there's a boatload of problems and we gotta find ways to solve them."WATCH | Raptors drop playoff rematch against Celtics:The Raptors are now 1-5 on the season. They head out for four games in six days on the west coast next, which never makes for an easy trip.More stumbles in the pacific time zone could put Toronto in a serious hole 10 games into the shortened 72-game season.Perhaps, given everything, this just isn't the Raptors' season. If that is indeed the case, what should they do?Option 1: Trade Kyle LowryThis section was originally titled "blow it up," but the truth is the Raptors don't have much to sell off besides the greatest player in franchise history. In the last year of his contract, Lowry's value may be somewhat limited, though the Raptors would likely enter a seller's market due to a lack of tanking teams and the ease of the point guard's fit on any contender.A potential return would likely include a first-round pick and a prospect of decent value, helping augment the Raptors' emerging nucleus of VanVleet, Siakam and OG Anunoby, all of whom are locked into the team through 2022-23.Lowry being off the roster would also free up playing time for first-round guard Malachi Flynn. In related news, the team would get worse, though the remaining players could still be enough to make the playoffs, meaning a lottery pick is not necessarily guaranteed. Conversely, dealing Lowry would be a blow to the team's culture and fanbase, and the end of an era. There is something to be said for having your franchise player retire in your colours. Then again, maybe Lowry leaves for nothing in the off-season anyway. The trade deadline is March 25. Option 2: Acquire James HardenIt's only been six games. The Raptors are probably still good. But are they title contenders? In the playoffs, they wouldn't have the best player in series against Brooklyn, Milwaukee, Boston or Philadelphia, and potentially Miami and Indiana too. That's an issue.Last time Masai Ujiri was in this position, he traded DeMar DeRozan for Kawhi Leonard. And that worked out.A similar move is staring the Raptors president in the face: James Harden, who reportedly requested a trade out of Houston.Harden lacks Leonard's playoff bonafides and comes with similar questions about his desire to be in Toronto (maybe he'd enjoy Tampa Bay?). But the Rockets superstar is under contract through next season, and unquestionably would lift the Raptors' ceiling.The 32-year-old may not fit the Raptors culture; reported late to training camp after attending a rapper's birthday party and is used to having an offence unto himself — not exactly in line with the Raptors' teamwork ethos.But it's not like Leonard was a natural fit either. And like Leonard, Harden is a franchise-changing player. Any deal would likely centre around Siakam plus an abundance of first-round draft picks.It wouldn't be cheap, but it could be a shot worth taking.Option 3: Trust the processThere is a pandemic, and the Toronto Raptors play their home games in Florida. That crowd was notably pro-Celtics on Tuesday.The loss of Serge Ibaka and Marc Gasol hurts more than some anticipated, though Baynes isn't as bad as he's shown.Siakam might not be the all-NBA player he was last year, but he'll improve from where he was in the bubble and early in the season.Lowry and VanVleet remain one of the toughest guard duos in the league. There is progress still to come for Anunoby. You still employ one of the best coaches in the league.Get through the season, make the playoffs and then take advantage of the salary cap space that was prioritized over everything else this past off-season. Make every attempt bring Lowry back. Move back to Toronto for next season.Maybe being a true contender this season was never in the cards for the Raptors. But that doesn't mean this team should be blown up.And hey, maybe this was just a six-game blip worth laughing about come playoff time.}}
{{ASPEN, COLORADO (BLOOMBERG) - US Defence Secretary Mark Esper, asked about Tuesday's deadly explosion in Beirut, said that "most believe it was an accident as reported."\nHe did not elaborate, but Esper's comment on Wednesday (Aug 5) to the annual Aspen National Security conference was at odds with President Donald Trump's observation the day before that US military officials "seem to think it was an attack. It was a bomb of some kind."\nThe explosion killed at least 100 people and wounded thousands more.\nAuthorities blamed a quantity of ammonium nitrate equivalent to 1,800 tonnes of TNT that had been stored at the port, without saying what triggered the blast.\nThe ammonium nitrate was unloaded from the cargo ship Rhosus in 2014, according to two letters issued by the director-general of Lebanese Customs.\nFor reasons that are unclear, dockworkers unloaded the chemical, which can be used to make fertilisers and explosives, and put it into storage.\nLebanon is "struggling right now in a number of ways, and it's a shame to see it happen," Esper said.\n"When you see the video, it's just devastating."}}
{{Richmond, Aug 6 (AP) The family of George Floyd witnessed the unveiling of a hologram in Virginia on Tuesday night, where flickering lights came together to create an image of Floyd's head and shoulders transposed over the Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee statue.\nThe event in Richmond on historic Monument Avenue was the first public unveiling of the George Floyd Hologram Memorial Project.\nAlso Read | Sri Lanka General Elections Results 2020: Mahinda Rajapaksa Thanks PM Narendra Modi For Congratulatory Phone Call Over SLPP's Likely Win.\nA press release says the project aims to “transform spaces that were formerly occupied by racist symbols of America's dark Confederate past into a message of hope, solidarity and forward-thinking change."\nFloyd was a Black man who died after being pinned to the ground by a white police officer in Minneapolis in May, sparking protests across the country calling for criminal justice reform across the nation.\nAlso Read | US Senate Votes to Ban TikTok From All Federal Government Devices; Bill to Be Presented in House of Representatives.\nThe Richmond-Times Dispatch reported that the project's weeklong tour will take it to a number of cities in North Carolina and Georgia, mirroring the route of the 1961 Freedom Rides.\nThe hologram features a myriad of lights that swarm like fireflies to form into a 3-D image of Floyd, with his name depicted around his image. The tour is organized by Change.org and The George Floyd Foundation. (AP)\n(This is an unedited and auto-generated story from Syndicated News feed, LatestLY Staff may not have modified or edited the content body)}}
{{The body camera video from two of the now-fired Minneapolis police officers involved in the death of George Floyd was released to the public Monday.\nOn Friday, Hennepin County District Court Judge Peter Cahill ordered copies of the footage from officers Thomas Lane and J. Alexander Kueng to be released.\nThe decision was made after a challenge from a media coalition, including FOX 9.\nCahill had previously allowed journalists and the public to view the footage from the courthouse, but did not allow for the body camera video to be recorded or be copied by reporters. Instead, reporters were allowed to sign up for a one-hour appointment to view the video and describe what they saw.\nBoth officers body camera videos and transcripts of the videos were among the exhibits submitted by Lane’s attorney, Earl Gray, in July supporting a motion to dismiss the charges against Lane.\nAdvertisement\nFloyd died on May 25 after being detained by Minneapolis police. Lane and Kueng were the first officers to respond to the initial 911 call at Cup Foods.\nLane, Kueng and Tou Thao are all charged with aiding and abetting second-degree murder and aiding and abetting second-degree manslaughter. Derek Chauvin, the officer seen kneeling on Floyd's neck in a bystander video, is charged with second-degree murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.}}
{{January 7, 2021 — The joint session of Congress began on Wednesday afternoon, was delayed by a mob incursion incited by President Donald Trump, continued on Wednesday evening and concluded early Thursday morning.\nAfter it all, Joe Biden’s victory in the 2020 presidential election was confirmed.\nThe joint session of Congress was interrupted by the violent mob insurrection that stormed the Capitol Building and caused legislators to flee their respective chambers. It was the first time the Capitol had been attacked in such a manner since the War of 1812.\nFollowing the procedure outlined in the 12th Amendment to the Constitution and the 1877 Electoral Count Act, which specifies the procedures for counting and hearing objections to certified electoral vote totals, the legislators had retreated to their separate chambers to debate an objection lodged to the Arizona electors.\nAt the conclusion of the entire affair soon after after 3 a.m. on Thursday morning, Vice President Mike Pence presided over the declaration of the vote total that had already been certified by the states: Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris won 306 Electoral College votes, 36 more than needed to become president.\nBiden and Harris will be sworn in on January 20.\nAfter the counting of the electoral votes, Trump issued a statement acknowledging that “there will be an orderly transition” of power on January 20, and said that the action of Congress “represents the end of the greatest first term in presidential history.”\nTrump’s statement came via spokesperson Dan Scavino, as the president’s Twitter account was locked for 12 hours on Wednesday. No new activity has been registered on his Twitter account as of Thursday morning.\n…fight to ensure that only legal votes were counted. While this represents the end of the greatest first term in presidential history, it’s only the beginning of our fight to Make America Great Again!” — Dan Scavino🇺🇸🦅 (@DanScavino) January 7, 2021\nSee “Twitter Locks Account of President Donald Trump and Deletes Three Inciting Tweets,” Broadband Breakfast, January 6, 2021\nIn one of the aforementioned Tweets deleted by Twitter, Trump condemned Pence for not intervening in the count of the electors. Pence promptly unfollowed Trump’s account on Twitter and led the counting in the joint session, confirming the Biden victory.\nOn Wednesday and on Thursday, an increasing number of members of Congress, Republicans and Democrats, including Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., have called for Pence and a majority of the members of the administration’s Cabinet, to invoke the 25th Amendment to remove Trump from office amid the violence at the Capitol on Wednesday.}}
{{It comes as overnight results from Georgia’s runoff elections put Democrats within reach of Senate majority\nFILE - In this Dec. 17, 2019 file photo, Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., speaks with reporters at the Capitol in Washington. A deepening divide among Republicans over President Donald Trump’s efforts to overturn the election runs prominently through Wyoming, the state that delivered Trump’s widest prevailing margin by far. Eleven Republican senators saying they will not be voting Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, to confirm President-elect Joe Biden’s victory include Wyoming’s newly sworn in Sen. Cynthia Lummis, a Cheyenne-area rancher and former congresswoman. Vocal opponents of any such move include Wyoming Rep. Liz Cheney, leader of GOP messaging in the House as its third-ranking Republican (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite, File)\nPresident Donald Trump’s extraordinary effort to overturn the presidential election is going before Congress as lawmakers convene for a joint session to confirm the Electoral College vote won by Joe Biden.\nThe typically routine proceeding Wednesday will be anything but, a political confrontation unseen to such intensity since the aftermath of the Civil War, as Trump mounts a desperate effort to stay in office. The president’s Republican allies in the House and Senate plan to object to the election results, heeding supporters’ plea to “fight for Trump” as he stages a rally outside the White House. It’s tearing the party apart.\nThe last-gasp effort is all but certain to fail, defeated by bipartisan majorities in Congress prepared to accept the November results. Biden, who won the Electoral College 306-232, is to be inaugurated Jan. 20.\n“The most important part is that, in the end, democracy will prevail here,” Democratic Sen. Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, among those managing the proceedings, said in an interview.\nThe joint session of Congress, required by law, will convene at 1 p.m. EST before a watchful, restless nation — months after the election, two weeks before the inauguration’s traditional peaceful transfer of power and against the backdrop of a surging COVID-19 pandemic.\nIt also comes as overnight results from Georgia’s runoff elections put Democrats within reach of a Senate majority.\nThe current majority leader, Mitch McConnell, who tried to warn his Republican Party off this challenge, is expected to deliver early remarks. Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi called it a day of “enormous historic significance,” about “guaranteeing trust in our democratic system.”\nBut it is Vice-President Mike Pence who will be most closely watched as he presides over the session.\nDespite Trump’s repeated claims of voter fraud, election officials and his own former attorney general have said there were no problems on a scale that would change the outcome. All the states have certified their results as fair and accurate, by Republican and Democratic officials alike.\nPence has a largely ceremonial role, opening the sealed envelopes from the states after they are carried in mahogany boxes used for the occasion, and reading the results aloud. But he is under growing pressure from Trump to overturn the will of the voters and tip the results in the president’s favour, despite having no legal power to affect the outcome.\n“Do it Mike, this is a time for extreme courage!” Trump tweeted Wednesday.\nWith the Senate results from Georgia streaming in, Trump amplified his pleas to stay in office as a veto check on Democrats. The country “NEEDS THE PRESIDENCY MORE THAN EVER,” he tweeted.\nWhile other vice-presidents, including Al Gore and Richard Nixon, also presided over their own defeats, Pence supports those Republican lawmakers mounting challenges to the 2020 outcome.\nIt’s not the first time lawmakers have challenged results. Democrats did in 2017 and 2005. But the intensity of Trump’s challenge is like nothing in modern times, and an outpouring of current and elected GOP officials warn the showdown is sowing distrust in government and eroding Americans’ faith in democracy.\n“There is no constitutionally viable means for the Congress to overturn an election,” said Sen. Tim Scott, R-S.C., announcing his refusal to join the effort on the eve of the session.\nStill, more than a dozen Republican senators led by Josh Hawley of Missouri and Ted Cruz of Texas, along with as many as 100 House Republicans, are pressing ahead to raise objections to individual states’ reports of Biden’s wins.\nUnder the rules of the joint session, any objection to a state’s electoral tally needs to be submitted in writing by at least one member of the House and one of the Senate to be considered. Each objection will force two hours of deliberations in the House and Senate, ensuring a long day.\nHouse Republican lawmakers are signing on to objections to the electoral votes in six states — Arizona, Georgia, Nevada, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.\nArizona will likely be the first to be disputed as the state tallies are announced in alphabetical order. Cruz has said he will join House Republicans in objecting to that state, even as he acknowledged the effort will not have the votes to succeed.\n“Extraordinarily uphill,” he said late Tuesday on Fox News.\nHawley has said he will object to the election results from Pennsylvania, almost ensuring a second two-hour debate despite resistance from the state’s Republican senator, Pat Toomey, who said the tally of Biden’s win is accurate.\nSen. Kelly Loeffler may challenge the results in her state of Georgia. She was defeated in Georgia’s runoff to Democrat Raphael Warnock, but can remain a senator until he is sworn into office.\nThe other Senate runoff race between Republican David Perdue and Democrat Jon Ossoff remained too early to call Wednesday, though Ossoff declared he won. Perdue, who was seeking reelection, is ineligible to vote in the Senate because his term expired with the start of the new Congress Sunday.\nIt’s unclear if any of the other senators will object to any other state, as lawmakers were still devising a strategy.\nDemocrats have the majority in the House, while the Republican-led Senate is divided over the issue. Bipartisan majorities in both chambers are expected to soundly reject the objections.\nThe group led by Cruz is vowing to object unless Congress agrees to form a commission to investigate the election, but that seems unlikely.\nThose with Cruz are Sens. Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, James Lankford of Oklahoma, Steve Daines of Montana, John Kennedy of Louisiana, Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee, Mike Braun of Indiana, Cynthia Lummis of Wyoming, Roger Marshall of Kansas, Bill Hagerty of Tennessee and Tommy Tuberville of Alabama.\nMany of the Republicans challenging the results said they are trying to give voice to voters back home who don’t trust the outcome of the election and want to see the lawmakers fighting for Trump.\nHawley defended his role saying his constituents have been “loud and clear” about their distrust of the election. “It is my responsibility as a senator to raise their concerns,” he wrote to colleagues.\nAs criticism mounted, Cruz insisted his aim was “not to set aside the election” but to investigate the claims of voting problems. He has produced no new evidence.\nBoth Hawley and Cruz are potential 2024 presidential contenders, vying for Trump’s base of supporters.\nLawmakers were told by Capitol officials to arrive early, due to safety precautions with protesters in Washington. Visitors, who typically fill the galleries to watch landmark proceedings, will not be allowed under COVID-19 restrictions.\n___\nAssociated Press writers Kevin Freking in Dalton, Ga., and Bill Barrow in Atlanta contributed to this report.\nLisa Mascaro And Mary Clare Jalonick, The Associated Press\nLike us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter.\nWant to support local journalism during the pandemic? Make a donation here.\nJoe BidenUSA}}
{{© Reuters. FILE PHOTO: U.S. President Biden delivers remarks at the White House in Washington\nBy David Shepardson\nWASHINGTON (Reuters) – President Joe Biden will virtually tour a South Carolina electric bus and battery manufacturing plant on Tuesday as the White House touts his proposal to boost the production of zero-emission buses and cars.\nBiden will tour a U.S. electric bus manufacturer Proterra facility. He has proposed spending $20 billion to electrify at least 20% of school buses and $25 billion to electrify some transit vehicles as part of his $2.3 trillion infrastructure and jobs plan. In total, Biden has proposed $174 billion boost EVs, including $100 billion in consumer rebates.\nThe White House’s push to electrify vehicles comes as China has dominated the world electric bus market. But Proterra estimates 50% of all new North American-built buses in 2025 will be electric.The U.S. has over 475,000 school buses and 65,000 transit buses and most run on diesel fuel, the White House said. Biden “made a commitment that all American-made buses would be zero-emission by 2030,” but it is not clear if he would seek to ban the sale of non-zero emission buses.\nVice President Kamala Harris on Monday toured a Thomas Built Buses facility in North Carolina to tout the company’s electric bus manufacturing.\nBurlingame, California-based Proterra was founded by mechanical engineer Dale Hill in Golden, Colorado, in 2004 and has provided hundreds of public transport buses to U.S. cities since inception.\nThe White House has declined to endorsed setting a firm date like California to phaseout gasoline-powered passenger vehicles.\nProterra in January agreed to go public through a merger with ArcLight Clean Transition Corp in a deal valued at $1.6 billion, including debt.\nThe company is going public through a merger with a blank-check company or special purpose acquisition company (SPAC). SPACs are shell companies which raise money through an IPO of its shares to take another company public within two years.\nThe transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2021.}}
{{A massive explosion shook Lebanon's capital Beirut with a number of people reportedly wounded and widespread damage being caused.}}
{{A verdict has been reached in the murder trial of Derek Chauvin, the former Minneapolis police officer who is accused of killing the unarmed Black man George Floyd last year.\nThe verdict is expected to be read in open court on Tuesday afternoon between 4:30 and 5 p.m. ET, according to a notice from the court. Jurors began deliberating in the case on Monday.\nChauvin's high-profile trial on three charges stemming from Floyd's death began in March and concluded on Monday in a Minneapolis courthouse fortified with barbed wire.\nVideo of Chauvin holding his knee on or near Floyd's neck for more than nine minutes last May, while Floyd was prone and handcuffed, spurred months of protests across the country and reanimated the movement against police brutality against Black men.\nChauvin is charged with second-degree murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.\nSecond-degree murder carries a maximum sentence of 40 years in prison. Third-degree murder has a maximum penalty of 25 years. Second-degree manslaughter has a maximum of 10 years. Sentencing guidelines call for sentences short of the maximum.\nA trial for three of the other officers involved in Floyd's arrest, Thomas Lane, J. Alexander Kueng, and Tou Thao, is set to begin in August.\nChauvin's attorney, Eric Nelson, earlier indicated that his client would appeal a guilty verdict on the basis that jurors may have been impermissibly swayed by outside forces. Nelson cited comments by Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., who urged protesters to become confrontational if the jury acquitted Chauvin.\nPresident Joe Biden, who has pledged to overhaul the nation's criminal justice system, refrained from providing his views on the case while it was ongoing. On Tuesday, while jurors were sequestered, he said that he prayed that the jury would come to the "right verdict."\nThe tense atmosphere surrounding the trial was amplified in recent weeks by a spate of police killings that have led to protests.\nOn April 11, Daunte Wright, a 20-year-old Black man, was killed by a police officer in nearby Brooklen Center, Minn. The officer, Kimberly Potter, later claimed that she thought she was using a Taser. Potter has resigned and been charged with second-degree manslaughter.\nAdam Toledo, a Latino 13-year-old, was shot and killed by a Chicago police officer on March 29. Footage of the seventh grader's killing, which fueled anguish in Chicago and around the country, was released amid Chauvin's trial.\nSubscribe to CNBC Pro for the TV livestream, deep insights and analysis on how to invest.\nThis is breaking news. Check back for updates.}}
{{MINNEAPOLIS — Negotiators for the city of Minneapolis have agreed with the state to ban the use of chokeholds by police and to require police to report and intervene any time they see an unauthorized use of force by another officer.\nThe moves are part of a stipulation between the city and the Minnesota Department of Human Rights, which launched a civil rights investigation this week in response to the death of George Floyd in police custody. The city council is expected to approve the agreement Friday.\nThe agreement, which will be enforceable in court, would require any officer, regardless of tenure or rank, to immediately report the use of any neck restraint or chokehold from the scene to their commander or their commander’s superiors.\nSimilarly, any officer who sees another officer commit any unauthorized use of force, including any chokehold or neck restraint, must try to intervene verbally and even physically. If they don’t, they would be subject to discipline as severe as if they themselves had used the prohibited force.\nThe agreement also requires authorization from the police chief or a designated deputy chief to use crowd control weapons, including chemical agents, rubber bullets, flash-bangs, batons and marking rounds. And it requires more timely decisions on disciplining officers.}}
{{THE BLAST that flattened Beirut’s port on Tuesday has killed more than 135 people and injured thousands more. Lebanon’s Higher Defence Council, chaired by the president and prime minister, has declared the city a “disaster zone”. The country, which was already facing a financial crisis, is now confronted by a humanitarian one. What sparked the explosion is not yet clear, but its potency seemingly came from more than 2,700 tonnes of ammonium nitrate that authorities were storing in a warehouse. History shows that disasters involving the chemical are tragically common, and should be preventable.\nAmmonium nitrate has been used widely in crop fertilisers since the 1940s. It usually comes in pellets, which are cheap to make and stable under normal conditions. But at high enough temperatures the chemical can detonate. This makes it useful as part of industrial explosives in mining, and as a popular bomb-making material for terrorists.\nOne of the deadliest explosions caused by ammonium nitrate took place in Texas City in 1947. A fire on board a ship carrying 2,300 tonnes of fertiliser caused it to detonate, killing at least 500 people and creating a 15-foot (4.5-metre) tidal wave. The blast hurled the ship’s anchor, weighing 1.5 tonnes, 1.6 miles (2.6km) away. The accident prompted new regulations for the manufacturing and transport of chemicals, in particular requiring safer containers for ammonium nitrate.\nThis has not prevented further disasters (see chart). In 2004 a freight train carrying the chemical exploded in Iran, killing 300 people and destroying a village. And 173 people, many of them firefighters, died in Tianjin on China’s north-east coast in 2015, when chemicals including ammonium nitrate exploded in the port city. In the aftermath, protesters accused the authorities of being secretive about the cause of the blast and who was to blame.\nThe explosion in Beirut appears to have been caused by a store of ammonium nitrate that had been unloaded from a ship in 2014 and left in a warehouse. Video footage shows a fire in the port followed by the explosion. The city’s governor is reported to have compared the disaster to Hiroshima. Although tragic, the devastation in Lebanon is not on the scale of a nuclear weapon. The Hiroshima bomb had a force equivalent to 15,000 tonnes of TNT, whereas the explosion in Beirut was probably closer to a few hundred tonnes, Jeffrey Lewis, an arms-control expert, told the Washington Post. The deadliest man-made non-nuclear blast occurred during the first world war, when a ship carrying explosives detonated by accident in the Canadian port of Halifax, killing almost 2,000 people.\nOutside wartime, however, few explosions compare to the blast in Beirut. It was so powerful that it was heard in Cyprus, 150 miles away. For many Cypriots that brought back memories of the explosion of an ammunition dump in 2011, which killed 13 people and severely damaged a nearby power station, causing widespread blackouts. Several government ministers resigned, and an investigation blamed the authorities for the disaster. Lebanese will no doubt ask similar questions of responsibility and incompetence. For now, they are still counting the damage.}}
{{MINNEAPOLIS, March 8 (Reuters) - A Minneapolis judge delayed the start of the trial of former police officer Derek Chauvin for the death of George Floyd until Tuesday morning.\nThe trial had been due to begin on Monday with selecting jurors to weigh charges of second-degree murder and manslaughter. The delay comes after the Minnesota Court of Appeals ruled on Friday that Judge Peter Cahill of the Hennepin County district court must now weigh again the reinstating of the third-degree murder charge for Floyd's death during an arrest in May 2020. (Reporting by Jonathan Allen in Minneapolis Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)}}
{{The governor of Minnesota has pledged to “fully mobilize” the National Guard saying that the protests that have gripped the state are no longer about the death of George Floyd but rather an “attack” on civil society.\n“The situation in Minnesota is no longer in any way about the murder of George Floyd. It is about attacking civil society, instilling fear and disrupting our great cities,” Governor Tim Walz said during a press conference on Saturday.\nWalz said he arrived at the decision to fully mobilize the National Guard for the first time in Minnesota’s history after speaking with the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, as well as with mayors from across the country.\nThe development is expected to see all of the Minnesota Army National Guard’s 11,000 Guardsmen deployed to violence hotspots around the state.\nFloyd’s death at the hands of police in Minneapolis on Monday has unleashed a wave of protests in cities across the United States. In many places the demonstrations have descended into riots, complete with widespread destruction of property and looting.\nMinneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey echoed Walz’s comments saying that the demonstrations in the city on Tuesday were largely peaceful and organized by local residents. However, he added that the “dynamic changed” over the course of the week and claimed that those responsible for the violence that has gripped Minneapolis in recent nights are not from the city.\nGovernor Walz earlier suggested, without providing evidence, that white supremacists were responsible for the outbreak of criminal activity on the streets of Minneapolis.}}
{{Local election officials in Nevada’s most populous county expect to be counting tens of thousands of ballots into the weekend, with the state’s six Electoral College votes up for grabs in a presidential race led by Joe Biden that remains too close to call.\nJoe Gloria, Clark County’s registrar of voters, told reporters in a news conference Thursday afternoon that at least 63,000 ballots still must be counted. Gloria, whose county is home to the state’s largest city, Las Vegas, said the bulk of those ballots should be counted by Saturday or Sunday. The total does not include mail-in ballots incoming between Thursday and next Tuesday, all of which must be postmarked by Nov. 3.\n“Our goal here in Clark County is not to count fast,” Gloria said, citing the importance of the state in the tightly contested presidential race. “We want to make sure we’re accurate.”\nHe noted that the state’s processes have “run a bit slower” to give voters and election officials more time amid the COVID-19 pandemic, which has driven an unprecedented amount of mail-in votes nationwide. Mail-in ballots have largely favored Biden, according to election officials in several states.\nBiden currently leads President Donald Trump in Nevada by 11,438 votes, according to the Associated Press. More than 1.2 million have been cast for Biden and Trump combined in the state. The presidential race remains too close to call as Biden and Trump each have razor-thin advantages in multiple states left to call, with Biden gaining ground on Trump’s leads in key states like Pennsylvania and Georgia.\nAs it stands, AP has called enough states to allot Biden 264 Electoral College votes, compared to Trump’s 214; 270 are required to win the White House. If AP’s totals are accurate, Trump cannot afford to lose Nevada, Georgia or Pennsylvania, let alone more than one of them.\nGloria also expected a small number of voters who must come to polling locations to show identification, and others who were notified of ballot errors such as signatures not matching those on file, who must come in to fix their ballots by a Nov. 12 deadline.\nThe Trump campaign has sued to temporarily halt counting in Pennsylvania, Georgia and Michigan, and also demanded a recount in Wisconsin, where Biden won by fewer than 30,000 votes. Officials with Trump’s campaign and the Nevada GOP said they planned a similar suit in Nevada.\nJudges in Michigan and Georgia have already dismissed the suits, which focused on access to viewing the counting process and whether ballots were received by deadline.\nAsked about allegations of irregularities in Nevada, Gloria said, “We are not aware of any improper ballots that are being processed.”\nRelated Content:}}
{{"She is devastated by Mr. Floyd’s death and her utmost sympathy lies with his family, with his loved ones and with everyone who is grieving this tragedy," her attorney wrote in a statement\nWife of Former Police Officer Charged with Murder of George Floyd Is Filing for Divorce\nThe wife of former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin, who has been charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter for the death of George Floyd, has filed for divorce.\n“This evening, I spoke with Kellie Chauvin and her family. She is devastated by Mr. Floyd’s death and her utmost sympathy lies with his family, with his loved ones and with everyone who is grieving this tragedy,” her attorney wrote in a statement shared on social media. “She has filed for dissolution of her marriage to Derek Chauvin.”\nGet push notifications with news, features and more.\n“While Ms. Chauvin has no children from her current marriage, she respectfully requests that her children, her elder parents, and her extended family be given safety and privacy during this difficult time,” the statement continued.\nKellie, who competed in the Mrs. Minnesota America pageant in 2018, was born in Laos, although her family fled to Thailand for safety in 1977, according to the Associated Press. Three years later, the family moved to Wisconsin.\nShe was first married at the age of 18, and had two children with her former husband, who has since died, she told the outlet. The pair split after 10 years of marriage, after which she moved to Minnesota. While working at the Hennepin County Medical Center, she met officer Chauvin.\nImage zoom George Floyd Facebook\nChauvin was fired on Tuesday along with the three other officers present during the encounter with Floyd, 46, which was caught on camera.\nIn the video, Chauvin is seen placing his knee firmly on the back of Floyd's neck as he lies face down on his stomach, repeatedly asking for help and telling the officers that he could not breathe. Floyd was later pronounced dead at a nearby hospital.\nFootage of the incident sparked widespread outrage and has led to protests across the country over police brutality against people of color, which have sometimes turned violent.\nWant to keep up with the latest crime coverage? Sign up for PEOPLE's free True Crime newsletter for breaking crime news, ongoing trial coverage and details of intriguing unsolved cases.\nHennepin County Attorney Mike Freeman announced at a press conference on Friday that Chauvin’s case represented the fastest time-span "by far" in which a murder charge has been brought against a Minneapolis police officer.\nThe third-degree murder charge carries a maximum of 25 years in prison, according to Minnesota's criminal code.}}
{{President Trump on Saturday taunted demonstrators who gathered around the White House on Friday night to protest his response to the killing of an unarmed black man by a police officer in Minneapolis, and appeared to encourage his own supporters to gather tonight at the executive mansion.\nIn a series of tweets criticized for escalating tensions and potentially sparking violence, Trump dismissed the protesters as “professionally managed” and praised the U.S. Secret Service’s response, saying agents and officers handled the situation with restraint.\nWhen protesters “got too frisky or out of line, [agents] would quickly come down on them, hard - didn’t know what hit them. The front line was replaced with fresh agents, like magic. Big crowd, professionally organized, but nobody came close to breaching the fence.”\nGreat job last night at the White House by the U.S. @SecretService. They were not only totally professional, but very cool. I was inside, watched every move, and couldn’t have felt more safe. They let the “protesters” scream & rant as much as they wanted, but whenever someone.... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2020\nAdvertisement\n....have been greeted with the most vicious dogs, and most ominous weapons, I have ever seen. That’s when people would have been really badly hurt, at least. Many Secret Service agents just waiting for action. “We put the young ones on the front line, sir, they love it, and.... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2020\nIf demonstrators had gotten onto the White House grounds, the president said, they would have been met by “vicious dogs” and “ominous weapons.” He said U.S. Secret Service agents and officers, particularly the less experienced ones, relished the chance to engage with protesters. “Many Secret Service agents just waiting for action,” he tweeted, saying he’d been told by Secret Service supervisors that "'[w]e put the young ones on the front line, sir, they love it, and ... good practice.”\nIn a separate tweet, he seemed to invite his supporters to show up Saturday night, setting the stage for a possible confrontation with protesters. “Tonight, I understand, is MAGA NIGHT AT THE WHITE HOUSE???” he wrote, referring to his campaign slogan “Make America Great Again.”\nAdvertisement\nDemocrats accused Trump of escalating tensions even as protests erupted nationwide in response to the killing Monday of George Floyd by a Minneapolis police officer. Demonstrators marched and clashed with police and damaged property in Los Angeles, Oakland, Louisville, Ky., and Atlanta.\nFloyd was killed while handcuffed and lying on the ground as one of the officers, Derek Chauvin, kneeled on his neck. Chauvin was arrested Friday and charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter; charges are expected against the three other officers involved, the county attorney in Minneapolis has said.\nWashington, D.C., Mayor Muriel Bowser, a Democrat whom Trump attacked Saturday for not doing enough to respond to the protests, said on Twitter her “police department will always protect DC and all who are in it whether I agree with them.”\nhttps://twitter.com/MurielBowser/status/1266727099030810624?s=20\nAdvertisement\nWhile Trump “hides behind his fence afraid/alone,” the mayor added, “I stand w/ people peacefully exercising their First Amendment Right after the murder of #GeorgeFloyd & hundreds of years of institutional racism. There are no vicious dogs & ominous weapons. There is just a scared man. Afraid/alone...”\nSen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) tweeted: “The occupant of the White House is once again inciting violence. Don’t listen to him.”}}
{{By BASSEM MROUE\nBEIRUT (AP) — A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. At least 25 people were killed and 2,500 injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.\nHours later, ambulances still carried away the wounded as army helicopters helped battle fires raging at the port.\nThe sudden devastation overwhelmed a country already struggling with both the coronavirus pandemic and an economic crisis: Beirut hospitals quickly filled beyond capacity, pleading for blood supplies and generators to keep their lights on.\nThe cause of the blast, which sparked fires, overturned cars and blew out windows and doors, was not immediately known.\nAbbas Ibrahim, chief of Lebanese General Security, said it might have been caused by highly explosive material that was confiscated from a ship some time ago and stored at the port. Local television channel LBC said the material was sodium nitrate.\nWitnesses reported seeing a strange orange-colored cloud over the site after the explosion. Orange clouds of toxic nitrogen dioxide gas often accompany an explosion involving nitrates.\nAn Israeli government official said Israel “had nothing to do” with the blast. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter with the media. Israeli officials usually do not comment on “foreign reports.”\nThe blast was stunning even for a city that has seen civil war, suicide bombings and bombardment by Israel. It could be heard and felt as far away as Cyprus, more than 200 kilometers (180 miles) across the Mediterranean.\n“It was a real horror show. I haven’t seen anything like that since the days of the (civil) war,” said Marwan Ramadan, who was about 500 meters (yards) from the port and was knocked off his feet by the force of the explosion.\nHealth Minister Hassan Hamad said the preliminary toll was 25 dead and more than 2,500 wounded. Emergency teams streamed in from across Lebanon to help, and injured had to be taken to hospitals outside the capital.\nSome of those injured lay on the ground at the port, Associated Press staff at the scene said. A civil defense official said there were still bodies inside the port, many under debris.\nBeirut’s governor, Marwan Abboud, broke into tears as he toured the site, saying, “Beirut is a devastated city.”\nInitially, video taken by residents showed a fire raging at the port, sending up a giant column of smoke, illuminated by flashes of what appear to be fireworks. Local TV stations reported that a fireworks warehouse was involved.\nThe fire then appeared to catch at a nearby building, triggering a more massive explosion, sending up a mushroom cloud and a shock wave.\nCharbel Haj, who works at the port, said it started as small explosions like firecrackers. Then, he said, he was thrown off his feet by the huge blast. His clothes were torn.\nMiles from the port, building facades were shredded, balconies were knocked down and windows shattered. Streets were covered with glass and bricks and lined with wrecked cars. Motorcyclists picked their way through traffic, carrying the injured.\nOne woman covered in blood from the waist up walked down a trashed street while talking furiously on her phone. On another street, a woman with a bloodied face looked distraught, staggering through traffic with two friends at her side.\n“This country is cursed,” a young man passing by muttered.\nThe blast came at a time when Lebanon’s economy is facing collapse from the financial crisis and the coronavirus restrictions. Many have lost jobs, while the worth of their savings has evaporated as the currency has plunged in value against the dollar. The result has thrown many into poverty.\nIt also occurred amid rising tensions between Israel and the militant Hezbollah group along Lebanon’s southern border.\nThe explosion was reminiscent of massive blasts during Lebanon’s civil war and took place only three days before a U.N.-backed tribunal was set to give its verdict in the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in a truck bombing more than 15 years ago. That explosion, with a ton of explosives, was felt miles away, just like Tuesday’s explosion.\nSeveral of Beirut’s hospitals were damaged in the blast. Roum Hospital put out a call for people to bring it spare generators to keep its electricity going as it evacuated patients because of heavy damage.\nOutside the St. George University Hospital in Beirut’s Achrafieh neighborhood, people with various injuries arrived in ambulances, in cars and on foot. The explosion had caused major damage inside the building and knocked out the electricity at the hospital. Dozens of injured were being treated on the spot on the street outside, on stretchers and wheelchairs.\n“This is a catastrophe we have on our hands,” said one doctor, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to make press statements.\n___\nAssociated Press writer Sarah El Deeb in Beirut and Josef Federman in Jerusalem contributed.}}
{{In this screen grab from video, Hennepin County Judge Peter Cahill presides over jury selection, Tuesday, March 23, 2021, in the trial of former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin at the Hennepin County Courthouse in Minneapolis, Minn. Chauvin is charged in the May 25, 2020, death of George Floyd. (Court TV via AP, Pool) (Court TV via AP, Pool)\nMINNEAPOLIS (WETM) — A verdict has been reached in the trial of Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin, who is charged in the death of George Floyd\nThe trial spanned 15 days of presentation from both sides before being handed over to the jury for deliberation on April 19th. The jury has indicated that it has a verdict, which is going to be read between 4:30 and 5:00 PM today. We will be streaming the verdict live as it happens.\nDerek Chauvin is charged with unintentional second-degree murder, third-degree murder, and second-degree manslaughter in the May 25 death, following an arrest that happened on suspicion that Floyd used a fake $20 bill to buy cigarettes at a convenience store. The most serious charge, the second-degree murder count, carries up to 40 years in prison. Chauvin has pleaded not guilty.\nThroughout the trial Nexstar provided live coverage of the trial online in the player above and in our Apps; WETM 18 News Mobile App, WIVT Newschannel 34 App.}}
{{The aftermath of a massive explosion in Beirut, Lebanon on Tuesday, Aug. 4. File photo\nBEIRUT – A huge explosion in Beirut has killed at least 25 people had been killed and more than 2,500 were injured. The explosion sent a shockwave across the Lebanese capital, creating massive destruction; shattering windows and collapsing apartment balconies.\nSocial media became flooded with videos and photos from eye-witnesses on the ground soon after the explosion. Lebanon’s health minister said more than 25 people had been killed and more than 2,500 were injured, according to Reuters. These numbers will likely rise.\n“It is a disaster in every sense of the word,” Lebanese Health Minister Hamad Hassan said in an interview with several television channels while visiting a hospital in the Lebanese capital.\nDifferent angles from footage of the blast shared by residents on social media show a column of smoke rising from the port district followed by an enormous blast.\nLocal reports showed dozens of people being turned away from the Hotel-Dieu hospital, which itself sustained damage from the explosion. Corridors of the hospital are lined with injured people awaiting care.\nVarying reports on causes\n“I promise you that this catastrophe will not pass without accountability… Those responsible will pay the price,” Lebanon’s Prime Minister Hassan Diab said in a televised speech. “Facts about this dangerous warehouse that has been there since 2014 will be announced and I will not preempt the investigations”.\nAccording to Al Jazeera new agency, the Lebanese Interior Minister said that ammonium nitrate was stored in the port, which is what caused the explosion. He said Lebanese customs should be asked about why it was there.\nAl Jazeera has also said the head of General Security, General Abbas Ibrahim, visited the site of the explosion and said it appears the explosion was caused by highly explosive material that was stored in a warehouse. According to Ibrahim, the explosive material was confiscated years ago.\n“We are at the entrance of Beirut’s port, you can see behind me the chaos. Ambulances continue to arrive, continue to evacuate the casualties,” Khodr told an Al Jazeera reporter. “So far according to security sources, at least 10 people have been killed, but we are expecting that number to rise because we understand from the health minister as well as the Lebanese Red Cross that there has been hundreds of injuries.”\nEarlier local media reports indicated the site of the explosion may have been a warehouse for fireworks, though official security sources are not citing that as a potential cause at the moment.\nIsrael denies involvement\nBecause of political tensions, social media has become ripe with speculations surrounding Israel’s involvement. However, Israeli an official has said the country has nothing to do with the explosion.\nIsrael’s Foreign Minister Gabi Ashkenazi told Israeli N12 television news that the explosion was most likely an accident caused by a fire. The country has offered humanitarian aid to Lebanon through foreign channels, as the two countries have no diplomatic relations.\nDiab has called for a day of mourning on Wednesday, while President Michel Aoun has called for an emergency meeting of the country’s Supreme Defense Council.\nThis is a developing story. Stay with us for more up-to-date coverage of events as more information becomes available.}}
{{CLOSE\nBuy Photo More than 100 people gathered at a Thousand Oaks intersection Friday to protest the death of George Floyd. Demonstrations spread around the country following the death of Floyd in Minneapolis on Monday. A police officer has been arrested and charged in his death. (Photo: GRETCHEN WENNER/THE STAR)\nSamantha Wright almost stopped in the middle of the road when she saw protesters gathered at a Thousand Oaks intersection Friday evening.\nThere, in the heart of suburbia, were white, brown and black people hoisting signs with Black Lives Matter and other messages.\n"I literally froze," said Wright, a Los Angeles resident who commutes to Thousand Oaks for work. "My body was shaking."\nShe pulled over and joined the gathering of more than 100 people at the intersection of Thousand Oaks and Westlake boulevards. At times, she wept.\nWright, who is black, said she had been feeling hopeless and lost after the death of George Floyd on Monday in Minneapolis, where a police officer has been arrested and charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter. Large protests, some violent, have erupted around the country in the days after Floyd's death.\nRelated: White House under lockdown as protests over Floyd's death reach nation's capital\n"When I see all these beautiful people of all different shades representing people that look like me...it was overwhelming," Wright said.\nShe felt joy, gratitude, even hope. Hope that her 7-year old son — "a beautiful, brown-skinned black boy," she said, who is kind, ambitious and loves to read — can go to the store and come back home.\nThe protest was organized by a local group, Women United for Change, that formed in September. Linda Beck-Kuban, Janet Egiziano and Lisa Powell cofounded the group, which has almost 100 members. The group's mission includes political activism with the 2020 election in mind, with focus on deep dives into race and other issues.\n"We need to learn more," said Egiziano, adding the group wants to stand with the black community and be a source of support.\nMore: George Floyd protests: How did we get here?\nThe gathering had been planned in less than 24 hours, with Women United for Change reaching out to Indivisible Conejo to help spread the word on social media.\nJon Cummings, cofounder of Indivisible Conejo, said organizers expected "25 people, tops" to show up.\nInstead, he noted, the multiracial and multigenerational crowd that turned out was surprising and wonderful, he said.\nStay up-to-date with the latest Ventura County news:\nAmong those who heard about the protest on social media were sisters Eva and Elena Escoto with friend Gwen Peters. The three, like many others gathered, visited all four corners of the intersection with their signs as many drivers honked in support.\n"Living out here in Ventura County, sometimes it's easy for us to forget what it's like," said Peters, whose handmade sign read "Silence = Complicity."\n"We're connected," she said. "This affects everybody....So I'm out here protesting with everyone else about the injustices we see going on."\nGretchen Wenner covers breaking news for the Ventura County Star. Reach her at gretchen.wenner@vcstar.com or 805-437-0270.\nLocal coverage is only possible with support from our readers. Sign up today for a digital subscription.\nRead or Share this story: https://www.vcstar.com/story/news/local/2020/05/30/george-floyd-protest-thousand-oaks-black-lives-matter-march-police/5288998002/}}
{{Beirut Faces Crisis As Explosion Comes Amid Food Shortages, Economic Struggle\nDAVID GREENE, HOST:\nAll right. Let's actually zoom in now on Beirut and talk to someone who has been watching a lot of what the city has been going through. And he's part of the humanitarian situation there. It's Rafael Velasquez, who is the Lebanon country director for Mercy Corps, joining us on Skype. Thank you so much for taking a few minutes for us.\nRAFAEL VELASQUEZ: Thank you, David.\nGREENE: I think a lot of us are still just digesting what it must be like in that city right now for people who are going through this. I mean, can you just tell us - is there a moment or a scene that is standing out to you in terms of what you've seen in these hours since the explosion?\nVELASQUEZ: There's a couple of things. The incident itself, first we thought it was an earthquake that lasted unusually long. And as I headed to the door, it's when the blast of the explosion reached us. And we realized that this was something bigger than that. A bit later in the day, we are walking around the streets of Beirut and looking at hospitals at full capacity and the streets covered in glass, people from all communities jumping into cleanup action and moving strangers to hospitals for immediate assistance.\nGREENE: Can you just give me an example of the reality that is facing people who live in Beirut at this moment as they emerge from this?\nVELASQUEZ: Yeah. It's difficult to explain in some ways. The number of shocks and stresses that Beirut and Lebanon in general has been withstanding to begin with. As you know, no other country has hosted more refugees per capita than Lebanon, with about 30% of its population now being refugees, many from the war in Syria. On top of that, like many other countries, Lebanon gets hit with COVID. We're now experiencing the highest numbers that Lebanon has ever seen.\nOn top of that, you have the economic crisis where people saw in the last four weeks their savings completely wiped out when the lira lost about 80% of its value compared to last year. And then now this happens. It's just one after the other. It's amazing to go out and see people stand up and go back to rebuild, go back to restart, after all of this.\nGREENE: Is that what you're seeing, I mean, as you've been spending time on the streets? I mean, is there a resilience even facing something as unimaginable as this?\nVELASQUEZ: It's hard to imagine that that would be the case and yet it is. I went out the very same afternoon as that happened. We had to make sure that we relocated a couple of our staff members whose houses had been damaged beyond - you know, they couldn't spend the night there. And, yes, I saw people in mopeds taking strangers to hospitals. I saw people creating ad hoc lists of missing people and people that were looking for their families. Lebanon is often referred to and compared to a phoenix because it constantly rises from the ashes. We just now have to make sure that organizations like ours, like Mercy Corps, are part of that restoration.\nGREENE: What would you say is the biggest need right now for people in the coming days?\nVELASQUEZ: Now, you have 300,000 people that have been displaced. Their needs will be felt in the next couple of days, even in the next weeks, in terms of water, sanitation, access to health. A vast number of small businesses and enterprises have been wiped out. These businesses did not have insurance. These businesses have lost their savings. These are owned by families. So we need to find a way to help restart those small enterprises.\nGREENE: Rafael Velasquez is with the aid organization Mercy Corps in Beirut. Thank you very much for your time.\nVELASQUEZ: Thank you.\nCopyright © 2020 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information.\nNPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm, Inc., an NPR contractor, and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.}}
{{Valarie Fakhoury, a British grandmother with her Lebanese daughter and granddaughter, stand outside the emergency ward of a hospital in central Beirut. Janine Haidar/AFP/Getty Images\nHundreds of people have been hospitalized across the Lebanese capital and many are feared dead in the aftermath of a massive blast that rocked Beirut, shattering glass and damaging buildings miles from the site.\nHospital emergency rooms are being inundated by the injured, with the emergency section of one main hospital – the American University of Beirut Medical Center – unable to receive more patients, partly due to blast damage, according to state media.\nThe Lebanese Red Cross, health officials and politicians have called on people to donate blood to help the injured in hospital.\nImages from the city show cars, ambulances and military vehicles packed with the walking wounded and others who appeared not to be moving.\nWhile officials have yet to announce an official number of casualties, multiple members of the emergency services and politicians speaking to local media have expressed worries that there could be a high death toll.}}
{{The death of George Floyd, a black man killed by a white Minneapolis police officer on Memorial Day, sparked widespread violent protests in more than a dozen American cities.\nFloyd, 46, was pronounced dead Monday night after he was pinned to the ground under the knee of Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin. In a video recorded by a bystander, Floyd is heard saying he cannot breathe.\nFour police officers – Chauvin, Tomas Lane, Tou Thao, and J. Alexander Kueng – were fired from the force Tuesday. Chauvin was arrested Friday and charged with murder in the third degree.\nHere is a list of some of the cities where protests have erupted:\nMinneapolis, Minn.\nMayor Jacob Frey (D)\nPeaceful protests broke out a day after Floyd’s death. The demonstrations quickly escalated to outright violence and looting. For several days after, city residents woke up to fires still burning from the violent protests.\nThe building of the Minneapolis Police’s 3rd Precinct was overtaken by protesters and burned down. Demonstrators then converged about four miles near the 5th Precinct building.\nEarly Saturday morning, protesters were seen defying curfew orders issued by Frey as firefighters sought to put out several business and brush fires after the fourth night of unrest. The curfew lasts from 8 p.m. until 6 a.m. and any violation of it could lead to a misdemeanor charge, which entails 90 days in jail and a $1,000 fine.\nMINNESOTA GOVERNOR, MAYOR SLAMMED BY LOCAL PRESS, POLITICIANS FOR RESPONSE TO DEATH, RIOTING\nGov. Tim Walz, who authorized the “full mobilization” of the state’s National Guard, said it’s the largest civilian deployment in the state’s history. He said it was three times the size of what was in place during the race riots of the 1960s.\nThe Pentagon has been ordered to prepare troops to be sent to the Twin Cities, a move said to be rare in nature.\n“This is no longer about protesting,” Frey said Saturday. “This is about violence and we need to make sure that it stops.”\nNIKE RELEASES AD IN WAKE OF GEORGE FLOYD DEATH: 'FOR ONCE, DON'T DO IT'\nDetroit, Mich.\nMayor Mike Duggan (D)\nSome 1,500 people demonstrated peacefully Friday in Detroit as part of the nationwide protests.\nPolice Chief James Craig said one person was killed and more than 40 people were arrested. He said at least three-fourths of the demonstrators were from outside of the city.\nA DPD spokesperson said a grey Dodge Durango pulled up and fired into the crowd, striking a 19-year-old man. The shooting did not involve the police.\nPortland, Oregon\nMayor Ted Wheeler (D)\nPolice in Portland, Ore., declared a riot after demonstrators smashed store windows and broke into the Multnomah County Justice Center, where office cubicles were set ablaze. “ENOUGH!” Mayor Ted Wheeler wrote on Twitter before declaring a state of emergency and instituting an overnight curfew.\nPortland's mayor declared a state of emergency for Portland after riots damaged numerous businesses and public buildings Friday night.\nA curfew begins at 8 p.m. and continues until 6 a.m.\nCIVIL RIGHTS ATTY: DEMS NOT STANDING UP AGAINST CRIME IN FLOYD PROTESTS BECAUSE THEY'RE AFRAID TO ALIENATE BLACK VOTE\nLos Angeles, Calif.\nMayor Eric Garcetti (D)\nProtests in Los Angeles began two days after Floyd’s death, with dozens temporarily blocking Highway 101. The demonstrations turned violent in the days after.\nOn Saturday morning, police worked to disperse crowds in downtown Los Angeles as multiple businesses were looted.\nHundreds were reportedly arrested, and at least five police officers were injured, multiple media outlets reported.\nThe Target store at Seventh and Figueroa streets, a Rite Aid store at 7th and Hope streets, along with the 6th Street Market and the Starbucks on Sixth Street between Broadway and Main Street and jewelry stores near Sixth Street and Broadway were among the businesses looted just before midnight Friday.\nPolice set up skirmish lines throughout the downtown area and, in at least one instance, fired non-lethal ammunition as they pushed a crowd out of the area, some in the crowd stopping to hide behind vehicles to throw objects at officers.\nA person answering the phone at the Metropolitan Detention Center could not give an exact number of arrests, but stated it was a "busload."\nLOS ANGELES PROTEST ERUPTS OVER GEORGE FLOYD DEATH; AMERICAN FLAG BURNED, HWY 101 BLOCKED\nMemphis, Tenn.\nMayor Jim Strickland (D)\nFor the third straight day, protesters took to the streets of Memphis to speak out against police brutality and the recent deaths of three African Americans at the hands of police.\nThe first demonstrators arrived just before 6:30 p.m. Within an hour, the crowd had grown to about 300, the largest of the protests so far.\nThat was despite a series of road closures set up by the Memphis Police Department at every entrance into the area. While Wednesday, the overarching emotion seems to be anger, Friday night's protest seemed to be about unity and healing.\nChicago, Illinois\nMayor Lori E. Lightfoot (D)\nDozens of protesters wearing face masks — many with the communist group Revolution Club Chicago and the organization Refuse Fascism Now, which is calling for President Donald Trump’s removal — gathered in downtown Chicago and marched through the streets for hours Friday evening.\nThe group chanted "say his name, George Floyd" and "black lives matter." Some held signs that said "Justice 4 George" and "I can’t breathe."\nAt one point, the group blocked a major highway, stopping traffic as police created a barricade with their bicycles. Later on, the group stopped outside the Metropolitan Correctional Center and chanted "we love you," according to videos posted to social media.\nThe peaceful protest took a turn early Saturday morning, with demonstrators breaking the windows of several downtown storefronts. Multiple people were arrested, police said.\nIllinois State Police assisted Chicago police "with several crowds of protesters" from Friday evening to 4 a.m. Saturday, according to the agency. State police did not make any arrests, the agency said.\nMore than 10,000 people had expressed interest in a Facebook event page for a Saturday afternoon protest in Chicago, organized by Black Lives Matter.\nCHICAGO MAYOR TELLS TRUMP 'F-U' AFTER TWEET ABOUT MINNEAPOLIS LOOTING\nAtlanta, Georgia\nMayor Keisha Lance Bottoms (D)\nA state of emergency was declared in Atlanta hours after hundreds of protests converged outside CNN’s downtown headquarters late Friday. Activists spray-painted a large CNN logo outside the building, broke a window, and tagged doors.\nProtesters pelted officers who came over with bottles, striking some of them. Other bottles thrown at authorities exploded behind the police line, but no officers appeared to get hit. Protesters chanted, “Quit your jobs.”\nThe officers backed their line away from the group of protesters who were throwing objects at them. Police ordered demonstrators to leave the street and threatened to arrest them if they did not leave quickly.\nProtesters used an accelerant to burn an American flag. People were watching the scene from rooftops, some laughing at skirmishes that broke out and vandalism by the protesters.\nMayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said: “This is not a protest … this is chaos.”\nEarlier, as the protest appeared calmer, Kaity Brackett, 27, said she came out to the protest because she thinks the entire criminal justice system needs to be overhauled, starting with policing. She said the Ahmaud Arbery killing was a catalyst for her and referred to his death as a lynching. Arbery was killed on Feb. 23 by a former district attorney investigator and his son, who were not arrested until after video emerged months later.\nWashington, D.C.\nMayor Muriel Bowser (D)\nAngry protesters arrived at Pennsylvania Avenue, sparking a lockdown at the White House Friday night.\nVideos showed a large group of protesters gathering, with some burning flags and knocking over barricades. The protesters have moved from the White House to another part of the city.\nMultiple reporters posted that they were inside the White House and that the Secret Service was not letting them leave the grounds during the lockdown.\nIn Lafayette Park, the angry group of protests appeared to turn its rage on a Fox News crew early Saturday, chasing and pummeling reporter Leland Vittert and his crew. They were punched and hit by projectiles as they fled.\nPresident Trump on Saturday praised the Secret Service for its protection of the White House on Friday night, calling them “very cool & very professional” -- and warned that any protesters who breached the fence would have met by "vicious dogs" and "ominous weapons."\nDenver, Colo.\nMayor Michael Hancock (D)\nDenver Mayor Michael Hancock called for calm and unity Friday after the first of several planned city protests over Floyd’s death turned violent, declaring, “Let not the story be about the riots and protests. Let’s keep the focus on the life that was lost.”\n“I can tell you not to go out and demonstrate but the reality is it’s going to happen,” Hancock said at a news briefing, stressing he shared outrage over what he’s called the “senseless and tragic murder” of Floyd in Minneapolis.\nHancock and Police Chief Paul Pazen blamed what they called a minority of agitators among peaceful protesters for inciting violence throughout downtown on Thursday.\nThat violence included throwing rocks at police officers, setting small fires, and breaking windows and damaging cars at the state Capitol and at businesses. More protests were planned for Friday and Saturday. Pazen said three officers were injured and that 13 people were arrested for burglary, criminal mischief, and assault.\nDE BLASIO PROMISES ‘INDEPENDENT REVIEW’ AFTER ANTI-COP RIOTS IN NEW YORK CITY\nNew York, N.Y.\nMayor Bill de Blasio (D)\nDemonstrators took to New York City streets for a second day in protest of Floyd’s death and invoked the names of other black people who died at police hands.\nDemonstrators gathered in Manhattan’s Foley Square and outside Barclays Center in Brooklyn Friday.\nSome protesters set fire to a police van in Brooklyn’s Fort Greene neighborhood, according to police officials\nDozens of people had been arrested as of 11 p.m. Friday, the officials said, adding that more arrests may have occurred. The officials said officers and protesters may have been injured.\nIn Manhattan, hundreds of protesters descended on Foley Square, chanting "I can't breathe" and “No justice, no peace!”\nThe names of black people killed by police, including Floyd and Eric Garner, killed on Staten Island in 2014, were on signs carried by those in the crowd, and in their chants.\nGov. Andrew Cuomo said he stood with the Minnesota protesters.\n“Nobody is sanctioning the arson, and the thuggery and the burglaries, but the protesters and the anger and the fear and the frustration? Yes. Yes. And the demand is for justice,” Cuomo said.\nWindermere, Fla.\nMayor Jim O’Brien\nA group of about 10 protesters gathered Friday near a home that belongs to Chauvin, the police charged with killing Floyd, after social media postings listed an address in the community of Windermere outside Orlando.\nThey carried signs that said, “He said I can’t breathe. Justice for George,” and “We see you, we hear you … we love you! #Justice for George.”\nThe Orange County Sheriff’s Office tweeted from its official account that Chauvin is not at the residence and is not expected there. The office says it’s confirmed he has no plans to be in the area.\nAlbuquerque, N.M.\nMayor Tim Keller (D)\nAlbuquerque police used a helicopter and tear gas Friday as they retreated from a crowd of people after a confrontation that followed a protest.\nPolice said officers responded to several shots being fired from a vehicle following a demonstration that had lasted hours. Four individuals were taken into custody, and several protesters became confrontational, police spokesman Gilbert Gallegos said.\nDuring the confrontation, protesters waved signs and yelled at officers clad in riot gear. Gallegos said Friday the tear gas was used to allow officers to leave the area and avoid further confrontation.\nThere were no reports of injuries from the gunshots, and it wasn’t clear whether that incident was related to the protest. Gallegos also said there were no injuries resulting from the confrontation with protesters.\nFontana, Calif.\nMayor Acquanetta Warren (R)\nNine people were arrested after rocks were thrown at businesses, vehicles, and officers during a Southern California protest stemming from the death of a black man in Minneapolis police custody.\nThe violence erupted Thursday night in Fontana as about 100 people moved up and down a thoroughfare and blocked traffic. Police say an unlawful assembly was declared and the crowd was ordered to disperse but some persisted.\nElsewhere in the region, demonstrators gathered outside Los Angeles police headquarters but there was no repeat of Wednesday evening’s action in which protesters blocked freeway traffic and attacked two Highway Patrol cruisers.\nColumbus, Ohio\nMayor Andrew J. Ginther (D)\nFive people were arrested and two police officers were injured by protesters throwing rocks and bricks at them on the second straight night of protests in Ohio's capital city.\nPolice also reported broken windows and spray-paint graffiti in the Short North. Business owners boarded up their buildings, and a couple stood outside well after midnight, with guns, to protect their properties.\nProtesters converged earlier in the night on Columbus Police headquarters, where they staged a peaceful protest.\nHouston, TX\nMayor Sylvester Turner (D)\nOn Friday, several thousand people attended a rally in front of city hall in Houston, where Floyd grew up.\nThe rally was mostly peaceful but police had apparently taken into custody a woman who had a rifle and had tried to use it to incite the crowd.\nThe crowd marched through downtown Houston to get to city hall, blocking traffic and at times chanting “No justice, no peace” and “Say his name. George Floyd.” Many held up signs that said, “I Can’t Breathe” and “Justice For George.”\nEventually, the protesters ended up alongside U.S. Highway 59, one of the major thoroughfares in Houston. A group of about 60 to 70 shut down the freeway for at least half an hour. Houston police accompanied the protesters as they marched for less than half a mile along the freeway before they walked off of it. No arrests were made.\nHouston Police Chief Art Acevedo said he welcomed the rally.\n“We stand with them protesting what happened in Minnesota,” said Acevedo. “I’m happy that they’re here today because people need to be heard, voices need to be heard.”\nOne of those protesting Floyd’s death was 19-year-old Jimmy Ohaz, who came from the nearby city of Richmond, Texas.\n“My question is how many more, how many more? I just want to live in a future where we all live in harmony and we’re not oppressed.”\nPhoenix, Ariz.\nMayor Kate Gallego (D)\nHundreds rallied in downtown Phoenix marching from Phoenix City Hall to the state Capitol on Thursday night into Friday morning carried signs reading, “Silence is violence” and “Being black should not be a death sentence,” The Arizona Republic reported.\nAround 11 p.m. Friday, Phoenix police declared an unlawful assembly around the Capitol building. Protesters refused to leave the area, news outlets reported.\nThe newspaper reported that rocks and water bottles were thrown at police. Video from local TV stations shows protesters hammering on the window of a police car, and the newspaper reported at least one police car window was broken. The Arizona Department of Public Safety and Phoenix police responded by firing pepper spray and rubber bullets at the crowd.\nFEDERAL PROTECTIVE SERVICE OFFICER KILLED, ANOTHER INJURED IN OAKLAND SHOOTING AMID GEORGE FLOYD PROTESTS\nLouisville, Kentucky\nMayor Greg Fischer (D)\nLooking to defuse tensions in Louisville, Floyd’s mother on Friday called on protesters to continue demanding justice but to do it in “the right way without hurting each other.”\nKentucky Gov. Andy Beshear read the statement from Breonna Taylor’s mother hours after gunshots erupted, wounding at least seven people, during protests late Thursday outside City Hall. At least one person was in critical condition, Louisville Metro Police said early Friday.\n“No officers discharged their service weapons,” and all seven people shot were civilians, police spokesman Sgt. Lamont Washington wrote in an email to The Associated Press.\nIn her statement, Tamika Palmer said her daughter — an emergency medical technician — devoted her life to others, and the “last thing she’d want right now is any more violence.”\nSt. Louis, Missouri\nMayor Lyda Krewson (D)\nDemonstrators in St. Louis stopped traffic and, in some cases, lashed out violently at the police and National Guard to protest Floyd’s killing.\nA man reportedly was dragged and killed by a FedEx truck early Saturday after protesters blocked off a downtown street with their cars. They were seen setting something in the road on fire when the truck approached.\nLas Vegas, Nevada\nMayor Carolyn Goodman (I)\nMore than 400 people demonstrated on the Las Vegas Strip on Friday afternoon calling for policing reforms.\nOakland, California\nMayor Libby Schaaf (D)\nThousands of protesters descended on Oakland to protest Floyd's death. A Target store was broken into, a Mercedes Benz dealership was vandalized and set on fire, and other cars were tagged, according to KRON 4.\nOakland police said some 60 looters were detained, 22 arrests were made, 13 officers were injured, and 2 Federal Protective Service officers were shot, one of whom died.}}
{{× Loading&hellp; {{title}} {{start_at_rate}} {{format_dollars}} {{start_price}} {{format_cents}} {{term}} {{promotional_format_dollars}}{{promotional_price}}{{promotional_format_cents}} {{term}}\n{{html}} Thanks for being a subscriber. Sorry, your subscription does not include this content. Please call 866-735-5631 to upgrade your subscription.\n× Keep reading for FREE! Enjoy more articles by signing up or logging in. No credit card required. Log in Sign up {{featured_button_text}}\nAfter a "peaceful protest" Friday evening in Riverside Park, the La Crosse Police Department, in tandem with Mayor Tim Kabat, released a statement about the killing of George Floyd, a black man who died in Minneapolis after an officer knelt forcefully on his neck.\nThe incident, believed to be racially motivated, resulted in the arrest of officer Derek Chauvin and led to nationwide protests, including mobs and arson in Minneapolis. The La Crosse protest remained civil, with participants holding signs reading "Black Lives Matter" and chanting for justice.\nIn response, Mayor Tim Kabat and Police Chief Shawn Kudron issued a statement saying their thoughts are with the Floyd family and those impacted by his death, and expressing their appreciation for the organizers and participants of the La Crosse rally for their "peaceful behavior."\n"We look forward to working with other event organizers to make sure their voices are heard and they and the La Crosse community stay safe," the statement said.}}
{{BEIRUT — A large blast has hit the Lebanese capital, Beirut, causing widespread damage and injuring many people, officials say.\nIt is not yet clear what caused the explosion in the port area of the city. Video posted online showed a large mushroom cloud and destroyed buildings.\nHospitals are said to be overwhelmed by casualties.\nLebanon’s health minister, Hamad Hasan, has spoken of many injuries and extensive damage.\nReuters news agency quotes sources as saying 10 bodies have been pulled from the wreckage.\nIn Armenian neighborhoods of Hadjin, Khalil Badaoui and Seifi in Beirut, the destruction is significant. there is preliminary information about the death of one Armenian , Nazar Najarian, the General Secretary of Lebanese Kataeb party and several injuries, mainly from glass crushing in houses.\nThe buildings of the Armenian embassy in Lebanon, Sahagian School and other community centers were partially damaged from the explosion.\nVolunteers and medics assisting injured victims of the blast at Armenian Educational Benevolent Union (AEBU) Community Medical Center in Hadjin}}
{{Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell opened the Senate on Tuesday saying the pro-Trump mob that stormed the Capitol was “fed lies” by the president and others in the deadly riot to overturn Democrat Joe Biden election.\nMcConnell's remarks are his most severe and public rebuke of outgoing President Donald Trump. The Republican leader vowed a “safe and successful” inauguration of Biden on Wednesday at the Capitol, which is under extremely tight security.\n“The mob was fed lies," McConnell said. “They were provoked by the president and other powerful people, and they tried to use fear and violence to stop a specific proceeding of branch of the federal government.”\nD.C. Police Officer Daniel Hodges' bravery has gone viral with a video of him being crushed against a door during the U.S. Capitol riot. Hodges recalls how he was able to make it out alive.\nMcConnell said after Biden's inauguration on the Capitol's West Front — what he noted former President George H.W. Bush has called “democracy's front porch” — “We'll move forward.”\nDownload our free mobile app for iOS or Android to get the latest breaking news and in-depth coverage.\nTrump's last full day in office Tuesday is also senators’ first day back since the deadly Capitol siege, an unparalleled time of transition as the Senate presses ahead to his impeachment trial and starts confirmation hearings on President-elect Joe Biden's Cabinet.\nThree new Democratic senators-elect are set to be sworn into office Wednesday shortly after Biden's inauguration at the Capitol, which is under extreme security since the bloody pro-Trump riot. The new senators' arrival will give the Democrats the most slim majority, a 50-50 divided Senate chamber, with the new vice president, Kamala Harris, swearing them in and serving as an eventual tie-breaking vote.\nPresident Donald Trump is finishing his fourth year in office just like he did his third – by getting impeached. NBCLX's Ashley Holt and Chase Cain break down how a presidential impeachment works.\nSenate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer are set to confer Tuesday about the arrangements ahead, according to a person familiar with the planning and granted anonymity to discuss it.\nThe start of the new session of Congress will force senators to come to terms with the post-Trump era, a transfer of power like almost none other in the nation's history. Senators are returning to a Capitol shattered from the riot, but also a Senate ground to a halt by the lawmakers' own extreme partisanship.\nRepublican senators, in particular, face a daunting choice of whether to convict Trump of inciting the insurrection, the first impeachment trial of a president no longer in office, in a break with the defeated president who continues to hold great sway over the party but whose future is uncertain. Senators are also being asked to start confirming Biden's Cabinet nominees and consider passage of a sweeping new $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief bill.\nIn opening remarks at his confirmation hearing, Biden's nominee for secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Alejandro Mayorkas, vowed to get to the bottom of the “horrifying” attack on the Capitol.\nMayorkas told the Senate Homeland Security Committee that if confirmed he would do everything possible to ensure "the desecration of the building that stands as one of the three pillars of our democracy, and the terror felt by you, your colleagues, staff, and everyone present, will not happen again."\nFive of Biden's nominees are set for hearings Tuesdayas the Senate prepares for swift confirmation of some as soon as the president-elect takes office, as is often done on Inauguration Day, particularly for the White House's national security team.\nBiden wants the Senate to toggle between confirming his nominees, considering COVID relief and holding Trump accountable with the impeachment trial, a tall order for an institution that typically runs more slowly and with bitter confrontations.\nPresident-elect Joe Biden revealed a number of his administration picks on Monday, including two major firsts if they are confirmed by the Senate. NBCLX breaks down Biden's Cabinet selections, including the first woman tapped to lead the U.S. intelligence and the first Latino to head the Department of Homeland Security.\nTrump's impeachment is forcing Republican senators to re-evaluate their relationship with the outgoing president who is charged with inciting a mob of supporters to storm the Capitol as Congress was counting the Electoral College votes to confirm Biden's election. A protester died during the riot and a police officer died later of injuries; three other people involved died of medical emergencies.\nThe House impeached Trump last week on a sole charge, incitement of insurrection, making him the only president to be twice impeached. He had been impeached in 2019 over relations with Ukraine and was acquitted in 2020 by the Senate.\nSchumer, who is poised to become the majority leader, and McConnell are set to meet Tuesday to discuss the power-sharing agreement and schedule ahead — for Trump’s trial, confirming Biden’s nominees and consideration of the incoming president’s $1.9 trillion COVID relief package.\nThree Democratic senators, Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff of Georgia, and Alex Padilla of California, are to be sworn into office Wednesday, according to the person granted anonymity to discuss planning.\nWarnock and Ossoff defeated Republican incumbents in this month's runoff elections. Georgia's secretary of state is expected to certify the election results Tuesday. Padilla was tapped by California's governor to fill the remainder of Harris' Senate term.\nThe Senate leaders also must negotiate a power-sharing agreement for the Senate that was last split so narrowly nearly 20 years ago, as they divvy up committee assignments and other resources.}}
{{Chants of “I can’t breathe” boomed down from the steps of the Pennsylvania Capitol on Saturday as several hundred people protested the death of George Floyd, the Minneapolis man who died at the hands of police.\nUnlike some protests around the country on Friday night, the racially-diverse Harrisburg demonstration which began at noon remained peaceful more than 90 minutes later.\nIt was organized by the Harrisburg arm of Black Lives Matters, which posted on Facebook, “This event by no means encompasses everyone's perspectives and experiences, but we hope that it's the start of a movement that will join people together to fight for peace and justice.”\nNylah Ashford of Harrisburg held a sign which read, “Will I be killed for being gay, black or a woman first?”\nThe 18-year-old said the death of Floyd is yet another example of why minorities and everyone who cares about equality must rise up after every unjust death or attack.\nAsked about the violence that has overtaken the protests in some cities, Ashford said she believes outside agitators are trying to discredit the movement. “Anything they can, they try to put on us,” she said. “That’s why we have to fight so hard.”\nThe protesters included whole families and some members of the clergy. Harrisburg police stayed mostly out of view, although several officers stood watch as the crowd, which eventually walked down the middle of the street for several blocks, passed the police station but didn’t pause in its trek back to the Capitol.\nProtesters carried signs with statements including “White Silence is Violence,” “Fight for Your Country” and “No Peace No Justice.” Many stood silently with raised fists.\nVideo widely shared on social media and shown on national news shows a Minneapolis officer with a foot on Floyd’s neck for more than eight minutes as several other officers stood nearby and a crowd looked on. Floyd can be heard saying he can’t breathe.\nAuthorities in Minnesota announced Friday one of the officers, Derek Chauvin, was arrested and charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter. Authorities said they expect three more officers to be charged. All four had already been fired.\nWhile some protesters saw the charges — the fastest ever against a police officer in that county — as a sign of justice at work, defiance of police and violent acts continued in Minneapolis and some other cities across the country on Friday night.\nThe Pentagon was ready to send military police to Minneapolis and Georgia has activated its National Guard in response to protests, according to The Wall Street Journal. Protesters skirmished with police in cities including Washington, D.C. and New York and police in Portland, Ore. called the situation a “riot.” In Detroit, someone fired from a vehicle into a crowd of protesters who were confronting police on Friday night, killing a 19-year-old man, the Associated Press reported.\nA Facebook post by the Harrisburg-based Black Lives Matters organization said, “We call upon the city of Minneapolis to prosecute the four officers responsible for the murder of George Floyd, and we call upon our own city to prevent anything like this from happening in the future. That means getting at the root cause of the problem: a police system that prioritizes the white and wealthy over the wellbeing of Black and poor communities.”\nLocally, the group said it is asking for things including a community review board to investigate allegations of police misconduct, rather than internal investigations; shifting funding from police weapons toward areas such as housing, education and health care; releasing some prison inmates to protect them from COVID-19; and mandatory body cams and dash cam with footage available to the public.}}
{{Two large explosions have devastated Lebanon's capital city, Beirut. Footage taken in the immediate aftermath shows windows blown out, streets littered with debris and cars upturned by the strength of the blasts. The impact was reportedly felt 200km away in Cyprus}}
{{Washington [US], December 6 (ANI): US President-elect Joe Biden has formally secured the number of Electoral College votes needed to clinch the White House next month after California certified his victory in the state on Friday.\nCalifornia Secretary of State Alex Padilla certified that the state is assigning its 55 electors after reviewing the election results, which pushes the former Vice President's total number of electoral votes to 279 - nine more than required to be elected President, reported The Hill.\nAlthough expected to win the state, Biden's milestone comes as President Donald Trump continues to launch several legal challenges to overturn the election results in key states.\nThe nation's electors will meet in their states to cast their votes, which will be tallied in a joint session of Congress on January 6.\nPreviously, Biden's victory was also certified in the states of Wisconsin, Arizona, Michigan and Georgia.\nSince Biden was projected the winner of the presidential elections, the US President has made debunked allegations that the election was rigged and has refused to concede defeat to Biden, while his campaign has filed several lawsuits in battleground states.\nBiden was projected as the winner of the Presidential elections by various media outlets in the US after he clinched the state of Pennsylvania to take him past the required 270 electoral college vote mark. (ANI)}}
{{The death toll from Tuesday’s massive explosion in Beirut has risen to 135, with some 5,000 wounded and many still missing.\nLebanese rescue teams pulled out bodies and hunted for missing in the wreckage of buildings on Wednesday as investigations blamed negligence for a massive warehouse explosion that sent a devastating blast wave across Beirut, killing at least 135.\nMore than 5,000 other people were injured in Tuesday’s explosion at Beirut port, Lebanon health minister Hamad Hassan said, and up to 250,000 were left without homes fit to live in after shockwaves smashed building facades, sucked furniture out into streets and shattered windows miles inland.\nHassan said tens of people remained missing. Lebanon prime minister Hassan Diab declared three days of mourning from Thursday.\nThe death toll was expected to rise from the blast, which officials blamed on a huge stockpile of highly explosive material stored for years in unsafe conditions at the port.\nThe explosion was the most powerful ever to rip through Beirut, a city still scarred by civil war that ended three decades ago and reeling from an economic meltdown and a surge in coronavirus infections. The blast rattled buildings on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus, about 160 km away.\nLebanon president Michel Aoun said 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate, used in fertilisers and bombs, had been stored for six years at the port without safety measures, after it was seized.\nIn an address to the nation during an emergency cabinet session, Aoun said: “No words can describe the horror that has hit Beirut last night, turning it into a disaster-stricken city”.\nHe said the government was “determined to investigate and expose what happened as soon as possible, to hold the responsible and the negligent accountable.”\nAn official source familiar with preliminary investigations blamed the incident on “inaction and negligence”, saying “nothing was done” by committees and judges involved in the matter to order the removal of hazardous material.\nThe cabinet ordered port officials involved in storing or guarding the material since 2014 to be put under house arrest, ministerial sources told Reuters. The cabinet also announced a two-week state of emergency in Beirut.\nA view shows the aftermath of yesterday’s blast at the port of Lebanon’s capital Beirut, on August 5th, 2020. Photograph: Anwar Amro/AFP via Getty Images\nIrish in Lebanon\nA spokeswoman for the Irish Defence Forces said personnel serving in Lebanon are safe and accounted for, following Tuesday’s blast in Beirut Port.\nThe spokeswoman added that the operational situation in South Lebanon, where the majority of Irish soldiers are based, remains unchanged.\nThe homes of a number of Irish citizens were among those destroyed by the explosion, with some minor injuries reported.\nIrish in Beirut: Were you in the area affected by the explosion?\nMeanwhile, a spokeswoman for the Department of Foreign Affairs said it has received a number of calls on the matter, with no reports of serious injuries to Irish citizens.\n“The Embassy of Ireland in Cairo has been monitoring the situation in Beirut since yesterday. If anyone has concerns for Irish citizens in the region please contact the Department of Foreign Affairs on 01 408 2527,” the spokeswoman said.\nPeople gather by destroyed cars. Photograph: Joseph Eid/ AFP via Getty Images\n‘Collapse of Lebanon’\nOrdinary Lebanese, who have lost jobs and watched savings evaporate in Lebanon’s financial crisis, blamed politicians who have overseen decades of state corruption and bad governance.\n“This explosion seals the collapse of Lebanon. I really blame the ruling class,” said Hassan Zaiter, 32, a manager at the heavily damaged Le Gray Hotel in downtown Beirut.\nThe health minister said the death toll had climbed to 135, as the search for victims continued after shockwaves from the blast hurled some of the victims into the sea.\nRelatives gathered at the cordon to Beirut port seeking information on those still missing. Many of those killed were port and custom employees, people working in the area or those driving nearby during the Tuesday evening rush hour.\nThe Red Cross was co-ordinating with the health ministry to set up morgues as hospitals were overwhelmed. Health officials said hospitals were struggling with the big influx of casualties and were running out of beds and equipment to attend to the injured and those in critical condition.\nBeirut’s Clemenceau Medical Center was “like a slaughterhouse, blood covering the corridors and the lifts,” said Sara, one of its nurses.\nBeirut Governor Marwan Abboud told Al Hadath TV that collective losses after the blast might reach $10 billion to $15 billion, saying the estimate included both direct and indirect losses related to business.\n“This is the killer blow for Beirut, we are a disaster zone,” said Bilal, a man in his 60s, in the downtown area.\nOffers of international support poured in. Gulf Arab states, who in the past were major financial supporters of Lebanon but recently stepped back because of what they say is Iranian meddling, sent planes with medical equipment and other supplies.\nTurkey said it would send 20 doctors to Beirut to help treat the injured, as well as medical and relief assistance, Iraq pledged fuel aid while Iran offered food and a field hospital.\nIranian supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said in a tweet: “We sympathize with the dear Lebanese citizens and stand by them in the painful tragedy of the Beirut port explosion ... Patience in the face of this incident will be a golden leaf of honour for Lebanon.”\nThe United States, Britain, France and other Western nations, which have been demanding political and economic change in Lebanon, also offered aid. Germany, the Netherlands and Cyprus offered specialised search and rescue teams.\nTwo French planes were expected to arrive on Thursday with 55 rescuers, medical equipment and a mobile clinic. French President Emmanuel Macron will also visit Lebanon on Thursday. Other Arab and European countries are sending doctors, mobile hospitals and equipment.\nA man walks in the partially destroyed neighbourhood of Mar Mikhael. Photograph: Patrick Baz/AFP via Getty Images\n‘Catastrophe’\nFor many it was a dreadful reminder of the 1975-1990 civil war that tore the nation apart and destroyed swathes of Beirut, much of which had since been rebuilt.\n“This is a catastrophe for Beirut and Lebanon.” Beirut’s mayor, Jamal Itani, told Reuters while inspecting damage.\nOfficials did not say what caused the initial blaze at the port that set off the blast. A security source and media said it was started by welding work being carried out on a warehouse.\nTaxi driver Abou Khaled said ministers “are the first that should be held accountable for this disaster. They committed a crime against the people of this nation with their negligence.”\nThe port district was left a tangled wreck, disabling the nation’s main route for imports needed to feed a nation of more than 6 million people.\nBeirut governor Abboud said amounts of available wheat were currently limited and he reckoned a crisis might develop without international intervention.\nLebanon had already been struggling to house and feed refugees fleeing conflict in neighbouring Syria and has no trade or other ties with its only other neighbour Israel.\n“On a scale, this explosion is scaled down from a nuclear bomb rather than up from a conventional bomb,” said Roland Alford, managing director of British explosive ordnance disposal firm Alford Technologies. “This is huge.”\nThe blast prompted the Special Tribunal for Lebanon on Wednesday to postpone its verdict in the trial over the 2005 bombing that killed ex-Prime Minister Rafik al-Hariri to August 18th. The tribunal’s decision had been expected this Friday.\nThe UN-backed court put on trial four suspects from the Iranian-backed Shi’ite Muslim group Hezbollah. Hariri and 21 others were killed by a big truck bomb in another area of the Beirut waterfront, about 2km from the port.\n– Reuters}}
{{darnellareallprettymarie/Facebook\nKellie Chauvin files for divorce from Derek Chauvin after George Floyd murder charge\nKellie Chauvin, the wife of Minneapolis ex-cop Derek Chauvin, who was arrested and charged Friday, May 29, 2020 with third-degree murder in George Floyd’s death, has announced that she’s filed for divorce from her husband after 10 years.\nIn a statement via her attorney, Kellie first expressed her condolences to Floyd’s family and grief over his death before her attorney announced that she filed for divorce as a result of this week’s events.\n“This evening, I spoke with Kellie Chauvin and her family,” her attorney stated (via KSTP). “She is devastated by Mr. Floyd’s death and her utmost sympathy lies with his family, with his loved ones and with everyone who is grieving this tragedy. She has filed for dissolution of her marriage to Derek Chauvin. While Ms. Chauvin has no children from her current marriage, she respectfully requests that her children, her elder parents, and her extended family be given safety and privacy during this difficult time.”\nKellie Chauvin, the wife of former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin, says she is filing for divorce and her "utmost sympathy" lies with the family of George Floyd. https://t.co/Xjvd6lbrST — NBC News (@NBCNews) May 30, 2020\nChauvin was arrested and charged Friday with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter, five days after Floyd’s death where Chauvin was seen — in now-viral footage — crushing Floyd’s neck under his knee for over eight minutes while Floyd cried out, “I can’t breathe.” In the criminal complaint against Chauvin (via CBS News), it stated that the officer “had his knee on Mr. Floyd’s neck for eight minutes and 46 seconds. Two minutes and 53 seconds of this was after Mr. Floyd was ‘non-responsive.'” Chauvin is now facing up to 25 years in prison if convicted. CNN reports that Chauvin had 18 previous complaints against him and only two of those resulted in disciplinary actions.\nThe three other officers who stood by as Floyd was killed were also fired, but have not been charged as of Friday night, though Bridgett Floyd, Floyd’s sister, said on the TODAY show Wednesday morning that she wants all of the officers involved to be charged with murder. “They murdered my brother,” she said. “He was crying for help.”\nBREAKING – MPD Officer Derek Chauvin has been arrested in the death of #GeorgeFloyd.\nI am at a news conference in Minneapolis City Hall with black leaders in Minnesota and friends of George Floyd. They found out the news in the moment and this is their response. #WCCO pic.twitter.com/JNOE2zm1IG — Marielle Mohs (@MarielleMohs) May 29, 2020\nIn the wake of Floyd’s death, protests have erupted across the country — protesting not just Floyd’s death but the larger pandemic of police brutality in the U.S. After hundreds of people marched to the White House on Friday night in solidarity with many other protests that popped up in major cities all over the country, Donald Trump went on a tweetstorm, threatening violence against the protestors and claiming that had things gotten out of control, the protestors “would have been greeted with the most vicious dogs, and most ominous weapons.”}}
{{In this April 15, 2021, file image from video, defense attorney Eric Nelson, left, and former Minneapolis police Officer Derek Chauvin address Judge Peter Cahill at the courthouse in Minneapolis during Chauvin’s trial in the death of George Floyd. (Court TV via AP, Pool, File)\nMINNEAPOLIS (AP) — The jury reached a verdict Tuesday at the murder trial of former Officer Derek Chauvin in the death of George Floyd, the Black man who was pinned to the pavement with a knee on his neck in a case that set off a furious reexamination of racism and policing in the U.S.\nThe verdict, arrived at after about 10 hours of deliberations over two days, was to be read late in the afternoon in a city on edge against the possibility of more unrest like that that erupted last spring.\nThe courthouse was ringed with concrete barriers and razor wire, and thousands of National Guardsmen and other law enforcement officers were brought in ahead of the verdict.\nFloyd died last May after Chauvin, a 45-year-old now-fired white officer, pinned his knee on the 46-year-old Black man’s neck for about 9 1/2 minutes.\nThe jury, made up of six white people and six Black or multiracial people, weighed charges of second-degree unintentional murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter, with convictions on some, none or all of the charges possible. The most serious charge carries up to 40 years in prison.\nEarlier in the day Tuesday, President Joe Biden weighed in by saying he believes the case is “overwhelming.” Other politicians and ordinary citizens also offered their opinion.\n“It shouldn’t be really even questioned whether there will be an acquittal or a verdict that doesn’t meet the scale of the crime that was committed,” Rep. Ilhan Omar, a Democrat, said in Brooklyn Center, a suburb just outside Minneapolis. The congresswoman said the Chauvin case looks open-and-shut.\nGuilty verdicts could mark a turning point in the fight for racial equality, she said.\n“We are holding on to one another for support. Hopefully this verdict will come soon and the community will start the process of healing,” Omar said.\nIn Washington, the president said that he had spoken to Floyd’s family on Monday and “can only imagine the pressure and anxiety they’re feeling.”\n“They’re a good family and they’re calling for peace and tranquility no matter what that verdict is,” Biden said. “I’m praying the verdict is the right verdict. I think it’s overwhelming, in my view. I wouldn’t say that unless the jury was sequestered now.”\nThe president has repeatedly denounced Floyd’s death but previously stopped short of commenting on the trial itself.\nAhead of a verdict, some stores were boarded up in Minneapolis, the courthouse was ringed with concrete barriers and razor wire, and National Guard troops were on patrol. Last spring, Floyd’s death set off protests along with vandalism and arson in Minneapolis.\nThe city has also been on edge in recent days over the deadly police shooting of a 20-year-old Black man, Daunte Wright, in Brooklyn Center on April 11.}}
{{Posted on by martyrashrakat\nBy News Desk -2020-08-04\nThe Secretary General of the Kataeb Party, Nizar Najarian.\nBEIRUT, LEBANON (9:20 P.M.) – The Secretary General of the Kataeb Party, Nizar Najarian, was reported dead after suffering a severe injury at the party’s headquarters during the massive blast at the Port of Beirut on Tuesday.\nAccording to LBCI, the party’s secretary general died as a result of a severe head injury at the party’s headquarters, Beit Al-Wassit (Central House), in Beirut.\nSeveral politicians have mourned his death, including the President of the Kataeb Party of Lebanon, Samy Gemayel.\nThe Lebanese Health Ministry has reported that as many as ten people have been killed as a result of the explosion at the Port of Beirut.\nCivil defense units are now combing through several areas around the explosion’s epicenter to help civilians and put out fires.\nShare this: Share\nFacebook\nTwitter\nEmail\nLike this: Like Loading... Related\nFiled under: Lebanon | Tagged: Phalange party, Powerful blast in Port of Beirut |}}
{{Hundreds of masked protesters gathering currently at Duncan Plaza to shed light on racial injustice and George Floyd. Preparing to march down Tulane towards NOPD headquarters. Speakers claim this is a totally grassroots movement. Asking people to social distance as they march. pic.twitter.com/cdt3ofxUV8}}
{{Police around the nation and law enforcement experts on Thursday broadly condemned the way George Floyd, who died in Minneapolis police custody this week, was restrained by an officer who dug his knee into the man’s neck, saying no circumstances warrant such a dangerous technique.\nDeeply disturbing video shot by a bystander shows Floyd handcuffed, lying on his stomach and seemingly subdued as the officer trying to arrest him pressed his knee down on Floyd’s neck for nearly eight minutes.\nSome police officials and experts said equally shocking was something not seen in the video: Other officers on the scene apparently did not try to intervene even as Floyd repeatedly cried out that he couldn’t breathe and moaned in pain.\n“Any officer who abuses their power or stands by and allows it to happen does not deserve to wear the badge, period,” Chicago Police Superintendent David O. Brown said.\nAdvertisement\nFloyd, 46, was arrested Monday after an employee at a grocery store called police to accuse him of trying to pass a counterfeit $20 bill. The cellphone video shows Floyd, who is black, face-down on the ground with his hands cuffed behind his back, as officer Derek Chauvin, who is white, uses the knee restraint on his neck.\nFloyd’s head is turned to the side and he does not appear to be resisting. As the minutes tick by and Chauvin continues to hold him down, Floyd’s complaints about not being able to breathe stop as he falls silent and motionless. Toward the end of the video, paramedics arrive, lift a limp Floyd onto a stretcher and place him in an ambulance.\n“He wasn’t actively resisting, and he was saying he couldn’t breathe,” said Charles P. Stephenson, a former police officer and FBI agent with expertise in use-of-force tactics. “You have to understand that possibility is there (that Floyd couldn’t breathe), and you release any kind of restriction you might have on an airway immediately.”\nChauvin and the three other responding officers have been fired, and the FBI is investigating whether they willfully deprived Floyd of his civil rights. Chauvin has not spoken publicly, and his attorney has not responded to calls seeking comment.\nPolice recruits learn a variety of use-of-force techniques at the academy, all with the idea that any force employed may equal but not exceed the physical resistance offered by a suspect.\nOne technique is to restrain someone on the ground face-down, but officers are taught to press a part of the lower leg, such as the shin or top of the ankle, across the shoulders or the back. In some cases officers will “hog-tie” suspects’ legs to prevent flight or violent resistance.\nBut “no police academy that we know of teaches a police officer to use their knee, to put it on their neck,” said Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum, which researches and advises on police practices. “That’s just not taught because that can impact their breathing and their carotid artery (a crucial vessel that supplies blood to the brain). So when police look at that video, they are shocked that those tactics were used.”\nWhat’s more, officers are taught to get a suspect up from the ground as soon as possible, either sitting or standing, since lying on one’s stomach can cause breathing problems, especially for larger people.\n“If what we saw was a continuing, ongoing fight, I could see how a leg, for example, could slip to the back of the neck. But this is not what I’m seeing,” said John Bostain, a former officer and president of Command Presence, which trains police around the country. “I’m seeing a fight that appears to be over.”\nFloyd’s case and the recent shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia have once again laid bare the divide between minority communities and law enforcement that grew to a nationwide uproar following the officer killings of Eric Garner and Michael Brown in 2014 and the death of Freddie Gray in police custody in 2015, among others. Videos from bystanders and police cameras have helped elevate such cases to national scrutiny.\nLaw enforcement officials often ask that people reserve judgment in such cases until all facts — what transpired before or after what a video shows — are known. But the Floyd case has drawn swift and widespread condemnation.\nThe Fraternal Order of Police, for example, issued a statement saying in part: “The fact that he was a suspect in custody is immaterial — police officers should at all times render aid to those who need it. Police officers need to treat all of our citizens with respect and understanding and should be held to the very highest standards for their conduct.”\nLaw enforcement experts say tempers can flare when a suspect resists arrest, but it’s incumbent upon fellow officers with cooler heads to defuse the situation and put a stop to excessive force.\nBut there’s no sign from the video that any of the officers at the scene with Chauvin tried to intervene. For some that had chilling echoes of the police beating of Rodney King in Los Angeles in 1991 despite the presence of a supervising officer.\n“That bothered me greatly,” said Stephenson, the use-of-force expert. “They all have an affirmative duty and obligation to uphold the law and uphold the procedures and to stop any violation of law or excessive use of force that they’re a witness to. … It didn’t look like those officers were making any effort to go over or say something or do anything.”\nCopyright © 2020 . All rights reserved. This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area.}}
{{Washington [US], November 6 (ANI): US Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden on Thursday expressed cautious optimism, as the counting of votes is underway following the presidential polls.\nTaking to Twitter, the former Vice President stated that he 'felt good about where we are'.\n"Be patient, folks. Votes are being counted, and we feel good about where we are," he tweeted.\nMeanwhile, President Donald Trump's lead in Pennsylvania has significantly gone down in the last 48 hours, with a lead of only about 115,000 votes as compared to an earlier lead of 600,000 votes, reported CNN.\nBiden is leading in several states including Arizona and Nevada.\nEarlier, Trump's re-election campaign had filed a lawsuit to stop ballot counting in Michigan and Pennsylvania and to prevent the counting of absentee ballots in Georgia that it claims arrived after the deadline on Election Day.\nThe USA Today reported that the announcements of the Pennsylvania and Michigan lawsuits came shortly before Biden was projected on Wednesday afternoon to win Michigan. (ANI)}}
{{A Federal Protective Service Officer was killed and another injured Friday in a shooting at a federal building in Oakland, California amid protests and violence in the city over the death of George Floyd.\nAccording to the FBI's San Francisco branch, the shooting occurred at the Ronald V Dellums Federal Building when a vehicle approached the building and opened fire at the security officers.\nFOX NEWS CREW HARASSED, CHASED BY ANGRY MOB WHILE REPORTING ON PROTESTS OUTSIDE WHITE HOUSE\n“The FBI has deployed investigators and the Evidence Response Team to the crime scene,” the agency said in a statement. “We will continue to work this investigation alongside the Oakland Police Department.”\nThe Federal Protective Service is part of the Department of Homeland Security and is responsible for protecting more than 9,000 federal facilities across the country.\nAccording to the DHS website, the FPS’ mission is “to prevent, protect, respond to and recover from terrorism, criminal acts, and other hazards threatening the U.S. Government’s critical infrastructure, services, and the people who provide or receive them.”\nCLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP\nIt was not clear whether the shooting was directly linked to the protests that took place in Oakland and across the U.S. in response to the death of George Floyd in police custody. Protests and riots have engulfed the country after video emerged of a police officer kneeling on Floyd’s neck.\nAccording to the Associated Press, about 1,000 protesters in Oakland smashed windows, sprayed buildings with “Kill Cops” graffiti and were met with chemical spray from police, who said several officers were injured by projectiles.\nThe Associated Press contributed to this report.}}
{{This post was originally published on this site\nNike released a simple but powerful ad Friday evening following the police-involved death of George Floyd in Minneapolis earlier this week.}}
{{✖\nProtests and riots have taken place around the country following the death of George Floyd while in police custody. Responses to the demonstrators have been strong, but actor LeVar Burton believes that this is evidence of a double standard. He made this point clear while referencing sports-related riots.\n"When a sports team wins or looses a championship and people gather in large numbers and light s— in fire those actions are somehow categorized differently. You want to focus on the destruction of property go right ahead. You do you," Burton tweeted on Friday. He made this comment in response to a Twitter user saying that he was "trying to justify" looting.\nBurton sent a series of tweets on Friday about the ongoing protests and the responses from outsiders. He said to not "f— with him" and said that he is searching for the underlying problem. Burton wondered about the "different standards."\nThere have been several instances of sports fans wreaking havoc when their favorite team wins or loses during important games. The Philadelphia Eagles defeated the Minnesota Vikings on Jan. 21, 2018, securing a trip to Super Bowl LII. In response, the Eagles fans climbed light poles, flipped over cars, smashed store windows and ate horse feces.\nSimilar situations have taken place around the country for a variety of reasons. Tennessee Volunteers fans rioted after head coach Lane Kiffin departed for USC after only one season. Another situation required police officers having to use pepper spray to turn back fans after the University of Kentucky won a game during the Final Four of the NCAA men's basketball tournament.\nLos Angeles has seen multiple riots following big sports events. In 2010, the Lakers defeated the Boston Celtics in the NBA Finals. The fans responded by rioting in the streets. Many threw bottles and debris at police officers while others set fires on the streets leading away from the arena.\nAuthorities said that there were multiple injuries during the incident but no deaths. The police also arrested roughly 12 people for vandalism and other public disturbances. In order to disperse the crowd, the police fired non-lethal rounds at those taking part in the riot.\nThis was the third time that Lakers fans rioted following a win in the NBA Finals. Similar situations occurred in 2000 and 2009, which resulted in extensive property damage across the city. Revellers also threw bottles and rocks at police officers during the incidents.\nViolent incidents have become a common occurrence in the sports world, but the outside opinions have varied. Those overturning cars were described as "revellers" instead of "thugs." Burton wanted to know why there was a difference.}}
{{“Who killed Mark Duggan? The police killed Mark Duggan,” demonstrators chanted at a protest in London over the weekend.\nDuggan was 29-year-old black man who was shot dead by an unidentified Metropolitan police officer in Tottenham, North London, during his attempted arrest on Aug 4, 2011. While protests were initially peaceful, the days that followed saw some of the most extensive rioting in modern British history.\nAD\nAD\n“The images of violence — with hundreds of youths looting shops, setting businesses ablaze and clashing with police in almost a dozen neighborhoods — deeply shocked Londoners, dealing the city an enormously damaging blow,” The Post’s Anthony Faiola wrote at the time. The unrest soon spread to other cities, including Birmingham and Manchester.\nThen-Prime Minister David Cameron faced pressure to bring in the army, as police reported nearly 3,000 arrests and five deaths in connection with the nationwide rioting — a trajectory of events with which today’s protesters have found resonance.\nPolice claimed they believed Duggan was carrying a gun and acted in self-defense at the time, while his grieving family have always maintained he was executed. Last year, the family settled their damages claim against the police force for an undisclosed figure.\nAD\nAD\n“Instead of putting my son on trial they shot him, not once but twice,” Duggan’s mother Pamela told the Guardian in 2014 after an inquest into his death ruled he was lawfully killed, although the jury found that while he may have been armed earlier he was unarmed and surrounded by police officers when he was shot.\n“My son was a living human being until the police got hold of him,” she said.\nOn Wednesday, British police issued a statement saying they stood with those “appalled” by the death of George Floyd, and that “justice and accountability should follow.” In the statement, constables across the country acknowledged that “policing is complex and challenging and sometimes we fall short."\nAD\nOn social media, critics of the police responded with the names of some of the people who have died in police custody in the U.K, including Duggan, Christopher Alder, Sarah Reed and Sheku Bayoh.\nAD\nActivists also invoked the name of Sean Rigg, who died in 2008 after he was restrained by police officers and put face down into the prone position for seven minutes.\nRigg, who suffered from schizophrenia and had been living in mental health facility, died at Brixton police station after pressure was applied to his back and neck.\n“All I could think about was Sean, because that’s exactly what they did to him,” Rigg’s sister, Marcia, told Elle magazine, describing her reaction to the video of Floyd’s death. ‘I was mad as hell,' she said.\nFloyd’s death sent shock-waves around the world, sparking rallies in cities across Europe as activists spoke out against systemic racism and inequality. Viral footage of the 46-year-old’s last moments prompted the U.K. to confront its own history of police brutality and its impact on the black community. A similar reckoning has begun to occur in the wake of the killing of George Floyd.\nAD\nAD\n“The outrage feels different,” 23-year-old protester Victoria Monari told The Washington Post after attending the solidarity demonstrations in London’s Trafalgar Square last weekend. “The George Floyd video has made everyone feel something. There is this level of collective grief."\nMonari, who was born in Kenya and moved to London 10 years ago, said that racism exists on British soil just as it does in other countries. “We have an injustice problem and we have a much longer way to go, so the protests are vital,” she said, adding that she was heartened to see Americans take a stand after centuries of oppression.\n“I’ve never been prouder to be black right now,” she said.}}
{{Transcript for The impact of George Floyd’s death in Minneapolis and beyond\nPraying. I know you had actually. Before involves. Former employees. I've made that decision this afternoon. Yeah. We half to restore order. Do our society. Before we can start addressing the issues. He's been charged with third degree. Murder we are in the process of continuing to review. The evidence there may be subsequent. Charges later all. Okay. Cause and in my opinion. It's speaks he dude to know compression of the next. Today arrest warrants were issued. Minneapolis police officers and and and child.\nThis transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.}}
{{CLOSE Hundreds of mourners gathered to honor George Floyd at a vigil in Minneapolis on Thursday, May 28, 2020. Las Cruces Sun-News\nSports serve as the cultural bridge for unification.\nDespite the many differences of citizens, amid war, peace or health pandemic, fans find solace and bond together through the passion for their teams.\nHowever, the rush from a home run or 3-pointer at the buzzer cannot override the bold line of racial tension and hurt feelings from the tragic death of George Floyd under the knee of Minneapolis Police Officer Derek Chauvin on May 25.\nHundreds of protesters gather near the site of the arrest of George Floyd. (Photo: Jim Mone, AP)\nThe sentiments of anger, hopelessness and lack of confidence in the justice system aren't limited to spectators at ballgames. These views are shared by coaches and players alike.\nCity streets across the nation are filled with protesters marching against the broken system. There's also been incidents of rioting. Although these acts haven't occurred in Tallahassee, prominent sports figures are vocal about their feelings.\nFlorida A&M football head coach Willie Simmons is arguably one of the most well-known African-American men in Tallahassee. He is the face of a program that is at the core of the university.\nProtesters and police face each other during a rally for George Floyd in Minneapolis. (Photo: Richard Tsong-Taatarii, Star Tribune via AP)\nThe head Rattler has proven to be a strategic leader and sound motivator. As a biological father of two sons and the surrogate to hundreds of others in the locker room, Simmons' level of pain is magnified as he tries to cope with the reality of the situation.\n"It's hard to describe. The scariest part about it is it's a hopeless feeling. Video evidence doesn't stop it. Protesting in the street doesn't stop it. Kneeling for the anthem doesn't stop it. We're still dealing with Ahmaud Arbery and now this," Simmons said.\n"This is the anxiety we have as black fathers, mothers, coaches and teachers. No matter what we do, all we can do is pray that our kids never find themselves in that situation. We try to educate them not to put themselves in that position. Even after that, our anxiety level stays on 1,000 over the fear I'll wake up to a video of one of my sons or players in a negative encounter with law enforcement. That's not the American dream."\nMiami native Marcus Williams is a recent graduate of FAMU and a former wide receiver. During his playing days, Williams was one of the on and off-the-field leaders. Williams still pours out wisdom to his former teammates and those following in his footsteps.\n"This whole thing makes me feel bad. But it brings light to the situation," Williams said. "I tell guys to stay safe and stay out of the police's face. If you don't have to interact with them, then don't. Racism is stupid. It doesn't make any sense. If you don't know a person, why would you hate them for their color?"\nFAMU wide receiver Marcus Williams looks to dodge by Norfolk State defensive back Bobby Price. (Photo: Jacob Henderson)\nAcross the street at Florida State, football head coach Mike Norvell took to Twitter to share his views. Norvell re-tweeted commentary from Pro Football Hall of Famer Tony Dungy with a tone of frustration over repeated acts of racism.\n"It’s heartbreaking seeing the events that have taken place throughout our country this week as well as the countless number of injustices done out of hate, discrimination, and ignorance throughout my lifetime," Norvell said.\nIt’s heartbreaking seeing the events that have taken place throughout our country this week as well as the countless number of injustices done out of hate, discrimination, and ignorance throughout my lifetime. This is an incredible message & perspective we all must stand together https://t.co/fb9nXHEnjc — Mike Norvell (@Coach_Norvell) May 30, 2020\nOne of the hundreds of people gathered in Foley Square in lower Manhattan May 29, 2020 to protest the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis earlier this week. (Photo: Seth Harrison/The Journal News)\nAll coaches bear the responsibility of safeguarding their players.\nAs a white man charged with guiding a host of young black men, Tallahassee Community College men's basketball head coach Zach Settembre understands the race can mean a life or death situation when facing rouge police officers.\nWatching the footage of Floyd's suffocation and many other examples of unarmed black men dying is a source of anger for Settembre. Like Simmons, he's fearful of receiving a call about one of his players potentially suffering a similar casualty.\nTCC men's basketball head coach Zach Settembre goes over strategy with Yahel Hill, (Photo: Greg Rowland/TCC Athletics)\n"George Floyd's death is shocking and enraging," Settembre said.\n"I'm a 29-year-old white male. I didn't grow up where my parents had to worry if I get pulled over and my tail light is out or registration is expired and something terrible happening with law enforcement. I try to get our guys to understand this is a world that's not just in many ways. As someone responsible for 18-21-year-old black males, I'm hypersensitive that this is a real issue."\nLocal high school athletes have deep concerns about race and police brutality.\nEssence Olivier is a former basketball player at Godby High School. The class of 2020 graduate supports all methods of protest to speak out against injustice.\nEssence Olivier of Godby High School pulls up for a jumper. She was a member of the class of 2020. (Photo: Submitted photo)\n"Growing up in school, we're taught about the oppression people of color had to endure. To be in 2020 and dealing with the same issues from the past is sad," Olivier said.\n"When I'm with my friends and you see the police ride by you, you get nervous. It's a scary feeling. Protesting is the best way to go about it. You have to make noise in order to get change. I agree with all the protesting."\nFollow FAMU beat writer Rory Sharrock on Twitter @rattlernews and @married2game1.\nNever miss a story: Subscribe to the Tallahassee Democrat.}}
{{Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.\nFor many of the thousands of protesters in cities across the country, there seems to be one primary demand — justice for George Floyd's death and an end to police brutality against African Americans.\n"The injustice has been going on for so long," said Ben Hubert, 26, who lives in the Minneapolis area. "It’s been swelling for years.”\n"That could be my father; that could be my brother. That could be me," one Atlanta protester, a black man, told NBC News of his thoughts when he saw the video of a Minneapolis police officer kneeling on Floyd's neck as Floyd pleaded, "Please, please, please, I can't breathe."\n"It just happened too many times," the Atlanta protester said.\nFloyd died in police custody Monday after he was pinned to the ground for over eight minutes. Derek Chauvin, the since-fired officer who knelt on his neck despite pleas from Floyd and onlookers, was arrested and charged Friday with third-degree murder and manslaughter. Three other officers were also involved in Floyd's detainment.\nPublic officials around the country decried the violence and chaos that broke out at many demonstrations Friday night, with the Minnesota governor saying "wanton destruction" in his state came from people who live elsewhere. About 80 percent of the arrests in the Twin Cities on Friday night were of people from outside Minnesota, officials said.\nLet our news meet your inbox. The news and stories that matters, delivered weekday mornings. This site is protected by recaptcha\nThe Minnesota governor said demonstrations that were peaceful earlier in the week, after video of Floyd's death came out on Tuesday, have devolved and no longer have anything to do with Floyd or a demand for racial justice.\nProtesters near Barclays Center following a rally over the death of George Floyd on May 29, 2020, in Brooklyn, N.Y. Frank Franklin II / AP\nBut not everyone in protests around the country appeared to engage in violence, and some who spoke to the media said their message is simple: “We are human beings that want justice for our people,” as one demonstrator in the nation's capital told NBC Washington.\nAnother protester, Anzhane Laine, said that until Chauvin is convicted "there will no peace until we get justice."\n"I spent all day crying because it's completely unfair," Laine said. "We have yet another innocent man being killed by a police officer."\nThose who gathered outside the White House chanted, "Don't shoot" and "Black lives matter." Many people held up signs that read, "We stand together #BLM" and "We r not thugs," in reference to President Donald Trump's labeling protesters as "thugs" in a tweet early Friday.\nSome demonstrations have turned violent and even deadly. In Atlanta, vehicles were set on fire and buildings, including the CNN Center, were vandalized during a Friday night protest. Police officers fired tear gas into the massive crowds as they tried to get people to leave.\nIn New York City, officers pepper-sprayed a crowd after a police vehicle was set on fire, and in Louisville, Kentucky, — where Breonna Taylor was shot and killed by officers executing a search warrant — seven people were shot during a Thursday night protest.\nCircumstances of the Louisville shootings were not immediately clear, and police said officers were not involved.\nIn Detroit, a 19-year-old man was killed after someone in a van fired shots into a crowd of protesters. A police spokesperson said an officer was not involved. And a security officer with the Federal Protective Service of the Department of Homeland Security was killed in Oakland and another injured after someone in a vehicle opened fire around 9:45 p.m. on Friday, the FBI said.\nDemonstrators said that despite tensions running high in some cities, they hope the message of why they are gathering does not get lost.\n"It keeps happening. No matter what's done, no matter how many protests it keeps happening," an Atlanta protester told NBC News, adding, "It's always been happening, but now it's just recorded and getting seen more."}}
{{“So many things are out of our control. I’m explaining this to my friends. Stay positive and don’t try to feed into negativity. We are living history. These are things coming back from the ’60s entering our times. People fought for us. We have to do things now as it’s our only way to show respect to them.”}}
{{Speaking on Fox News this Thursday, anchor Chris Wallace said that if Nevada is called for Joe Biden soon, the network could declare Biden the winner of the 2020 election.\n“I checked in with our decision desk today and they are not wavering. They said our call on Arizona is right. Puts him at 264,” Wallace said.\nWatch the video below:\nChris Wallace addresses the elephant in the room, says that if Nevada gets called for Biden soon then Fox News will call the whole thing for Biden. "I checked in with our decision desk today and they are not wavering. They said our call on Arizona is right. Puts him at 264." pic.twitter.com/4pi8EASrxm — Justin Baragona (@justinbaragona) November 5, 2020}}
{{The site of the explosion in Beirut, Lebanon.\nSecurity officials in Cyprus have tracked down and questioned the Russian businessman believed to have abandoned the lethal cargo of ammonium nitrate that caused the explosion in Beirut Tuesday, according to a report.\nIgor Grechushkin, 43, who has been identified as the owner of the ship MV Rhosus, which abandoned the shipment in 2013, was questioned at his home in the Mediterranean island nation on Thursday afternoon.\n“There was a request from the Interpol to locate this person and ask certain questions related to the cargo,” Cyprus police spokesman Christos Andreou told Reuters. He said the results of the interview were being passed on to officials in Beirut.\nThe cargo ship’s captain, Boris Prokoshev, told authorities the load of the combustible chemical fertilizer ended up in Beirut when Grechushkin ordered him to make an unscheduled stop there to pick up extra cargo.\nInstead, Grechushkin reportedly left the ship — and the crew — stranded in the port, where it was confiscated by authorities the following year.\nThe businessman lives in Cyprus with his wife and 20-year-old son.\nPolice officials in Cyprus would not comment further on the outcome of their interview.\nThe explosion destroyed much of Beirut’s waterfront, killing at least 137 people — including at least one American — and injuring as many as 5,000. It was the country’s worst peace-time disaster.\nWith Post wires}}
{{The Daily Mail on Monday published parts of videos from two Minneapolis police officers involved in Floyd’s arrest on May 25. A Hennepin County judge last month allowed journalists and members of the public to view the footage by appointment but has not yet ruled on a motion by a coalition of news organizations, including The Associated Press, seeking public access to the videos.}}
{{Israa Seblani’s long white veil trailed behind her. She gazed downward as the camera captured her smile and panned to her train, draped around her feet in a lacy circle. She was just hours away from her wedding ceremony.\nThen came a deafening boom that knocked her to the ground and shattered the day in an instant.\nAs Dr. Seblani, 29, posed for her wedding video, an explosion tore through the city — leaving more than 135 dead, thousands injured and dozens more missing — devastating much of central Beirut and blowing windows from their frames for miles.\n“One thing came into my mind: Now you are going to die,” Dr. Seblani said in an interview on Thursday.\nThe camera captured the instant that the massive blast rattled the Saifi neighborhood, less than a mile from the epicenter, and the panicked moments that followed as Dr. Seblani and the groom, Ahmad Sbeih, scrambled for safety.}}
{{Ottomans in Arab World: Nothing but a name, a few stones, and a long legacy of crimes}}
{{“Although I never knew George Floyd, I will never forget him or the fact that his death was both terribly wrong and completely and easily avoidable,” Gov. Edwards said. “No one who sees the video of his death can deny this, which is why it is important for all of us, regardless of the color of our skin, or ethnicity, to speak out against this great injustice.”}}
{{The woman's granddaughter, May-Lee Melki, said the piano video provides people with "a symbol of hope and peace among all of the despair"\nBeirut Grandmother Plays Piano in Explosion Aftermath — One of Her Only Possessions Not Damaged\nA grandmother whose home for 60 years was destroyed by the explosions in Beirut found some peace and comfort in one of her only possessions left undamaged: her piano.\nMay Abboud Melki returned to her home on Tuesday following the massive explosion that reportedly killed at least 135 people and injured thousands more, only to find that her property had been completely decimated except for her beloved piano, CNN reported.\nGet push notifications with news, features and more.\nThough debris and glass lay scattered around the room with window structures dangling from the walls, May, 79, found some solace in her musical instrument for a few minutes as she sat down to play "Auld Lang Syne."\nThe powerful moment was captured on video and later shared on the Facebook page of May's granddaughter, May-Lee Melki. Eventually, more than 1.4 million people viewed May's unwavering calmness — a "symbol of hope" amid a chaotic scene.\n"She pushed through the pain and tried to have a few moments of peace," May-Lee told CNN, adding that she shared the video because she "was able to express a symbol of hope and peace among all of the despair."\nAccording to May-Lee, her grandparents were both not home at the time of the explosion, which occurred over a mile away. Luckily, neither suffered injuries, but she noted to CNN that her grandfather's store was also destroyed in the blast.\nThough they were happy to make it out unscathed, May-Lee said her grandparents were understandably devastated about their home for six decades getting wrecked when they returned on Wednesday.\n"It survived the entire civil war... It witnessed bullets go through it," May-Lee, who is currently based in Virginia, explained to CNN. "They have rebuilt themselves over and over again."\nAfter sitting down to play "Auld Lang Syne" on her piano, which was a wedding gift from her father, May started playing Arabic hymns, which her granddaughter told the outlet led to clean-up volunteers gathering around to join in worship.\n"To see her lean into her faith, lean into God was something that was a strong message to her community and our family immediately," May-Lee shared.\nRELATED VIDEO: Wedding Photoshoot Captures Moment of Beirut Explosion\nThe explosion, which occurred near Lebanon's capital city waterfront, was so powerful, it was felt more than 150 miles away in Cyprus, The New York Times reported, adding that the neighborhood in which it occurred was “essentially flattened.”\nThe fatal blast may have begun with a fire that then spread to fireworks that then ignited ammonium nitrate being stored in the port, the Associated Press reported, citing both experts and footage from the blast.\nLebanese Interior Minister Mohammed Fahmi told a local TV station that he believed more than 2,700 tons of the chemical compound — commonly used as an agricultural fertilizer — were detonated in the blast, according to the AP.}}
{{The U.S. State Department is closely following reports of an explosion in Beirut and stands ready to offer 'all possible assistance', a spokesperson for the agency said, as a massive blast ripped through the Lebanese capital on Tuesday, killing at least 10 people and injuring hundreds.\nThe U.S. State Department is closely following reports of an explosion in Beirut and stands ready to offer 'all possible assistance', a spokesperson for the agency said, as a massive blast ripped through the Lebanese capital on Tuesday, killing at least 10 people and injuring hundreds.\nThe U.S. State Department is closely following reports of an explosion in Beirut and stands ready to offer 'all possible assistance', a spokesperson for the agency said, as a massive blast ripped through the Lebanese capital on Tuesday, killing at least 10 people and injuring hundreds.}}
{{The UK will provide £5m in aid to Beirut, including search and rescue help and expert medical support after the explosion at Beirut Port yesterday.\nAn explosion in the Lebanese capital yesterday left thousands injured with a death toll of more than 100.\nRead more: Beirut death toll hits 100 after warehouse explosion\nFollowing a call with the Prime Minister of Lebanon Hassan Diab, the foreign secretary said the UK had made up to £5m in emergency funding available help people made homeless by the disaster.\n“This was a devastating explosion which has caused enormous suffering and damage. The UK is a long-standing friend of Lebanon and the Lebanese people, and will stand with them in their hour of need,” said Dominic Raab.\n“We have offered immediate direct support including search and rescue, emergency medical assistance and up to £5m in humanitarian aid.”\nHe also offered to immediately deploy search and rescue teams alongside an EMT advance clinical advisory team.\nYesterday’s blast at Beirut’s port warehouses was the most powerful in years and was felt as far away as Cyprus.\nOfficials have not yet said what caused the explosion but local media have suggested it was started by welding work being carried out on a hole in the warehouse.\nPresident Michel Aoun said that 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate had been stored for six years at the port without safety measures, which he said was “unacceptable”.\nRead more: Thousands injured as explosion rocks central Beirut\nLast night Prime Minister Boris Johnson joined others in offering their support to Lebanon.\n“The pictures and videos from Beirut tonight are shocking,” Johnson wrote on Twitter. “All of my thoughts and prayers are with those caught up in this terrible incident.\nIt comes at an incredibly difficult time for Lebanon, which is reeling from an economic crisis and a surge in coronavirus infections. The pandemic has compounded government corruption and financial mismanagement.\nGet the news as it happens by following City A.M. on Twitter.}}
{{Lebanon's entire government resigns in aftermath of Beirut blast\nLebanon's entire government has resigned, its health minister has said. Picture: PA\nBy Kate Buck\nLebanon's “whole government” has resigned in the wake of the deadly explosion in Beirut which killed more than 200 people, the nation's Prime Minister has confirmed.\nThe Lebanese Prime Minister Hassan Diab formally announced the resignation a few hours after the health minister confirmed the news.\nIn a brief televised speech, Mr Diab said he is taking "a step back" so he can stand with the people "and fight the battle for change alongside them".\nHe said: "I declare today the resignation of this government. May God protect Lebanon," repeating the last phrase three times.\nThree Cabinet members and seven members of Parliament had resigned on Sunday and Monday, prior to the decision.\nBurnt out lorries are seen at the site of the explosion, which is thought to have killed 200 people. Picture: PA\n300,000 people have been left homeless as a result of the blast. Picture: PA\nThe resignation comes as anger is mounting against the ruling elite, blamed for the chronic mismanagement and corruption that is believed to be behind the explosion in a Beirut Port warehouse\nThe city's governor earlier today said the death toll is believed to have reached 200, with many bodies expected to be trapped beneath rubble.\nMore than 6,000 have also been injured in the blast, which caused widespread devastation across the capital and obliterated the port.\nIt is believed the explosion was caused by over 2,700 tonnes of ammonium nitrate which was unsafely stored in a warehouse at the port.\nThe disaster fuelled angry demonstrations on Saturday where protesters set up gallows and nooses in central Beirut and held mock hanging sessions of cut-out cardboard images of top Lebanese officials.\nDemonstrators held signs that read "resign or hang".\nThe protests quickly turned violent when the demonstrators pelted stones at the security forces, who responded with heavy volleys of tear gas and rubber bullets.\nOne police officer was killed and dozens of people were hurt in confrontations that lasted for hours.\nProtesters also fanned out around the city, storming a couple of government ministries.\nThey briefly took over the foreign ministry, saying it will be the headquarters of their movement.\nMore to follow...}}
{{George Floyd death: Killer Mike cries as he urges Atlanta protesters to stop\nThe American artist addressed his speech to Atlanta protesters and the video has since gone viral. Picture: Twitter - NBC\nBy Matt Drake\nRapper Killer Mike has made an impassioned speech about the death of George Floyd as he pleads with people not to "burn down your own home".\nThe American artist addressed his speech to Atlanta protesters during a press conference and the video has since gone viral.\nIt comes as the US has seen a wave of protests, looting and violence following the death of George Floyd, a black man who died after a white Minneapolis police officer knelt on his neck during an arrest.\nIn Atlanta, members of the public set fire to a police car, smashed windows at the CNN building and damaged several other businesses.\nDuring the conference, Killer Mike pleaded with protesters not to destroy the city, saying: "I am the son of an Atlanta police office.\n"I watched a white police officer assassinate a black man. And I know that tore your heart out.\n"I woke up wanting to see the world burn down yesterday because I am tired of seeing black men die. He casually put his knee on a human being’s neck for nine minutes as he died like a zebra in the clutch of a lion’s jaw.\nOne of the best, smartest, impromptu speeches I have ever heard. Amazing leadership. pic.twitter.com/SHiPBdVDvC — Ahmed Fareed (@FareedNBCS) May 30, 2020\n“We don't want to see Targets burning. We want to see the system that sets up for systemic racism burned to the ground.\n"I am duty-bound to be here to simply say that it is your duty not to burn your own house down for anger with an enemy. It is your duty to fortify your own house in times of organisation.\n"We have to be better than this moment. We have to be better than burning down our own homes, because if we lose Atlanta, what else we got?"\nThe rapper was also joined by Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms who said the violence was disgracing the life of George Floyd and also Atlanta-born civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr.\nShe said: "This is not in the spirit of Martin Luther King, Jr.\n"You are disgracing the life of George Floyd and every other person who has been killed in this country."\nDerek Chauvin, the officer who pinned Floyd down, has been arrested and charged with murder.}}
{{QUINCY — At a celebration to honor the 285th birthday of John Adams, who was the city's most famous statesman, Quincy Mayor Thomas Koch joked about the similarities between this year's presidential election and the one Adams lost to Thomas Jefferson in 1800.\n"I would love to have a conversation today with John Adams about the world we live in," he said in a ceremony last Friday. "He was very concerned about the kind of two-party system we have today, and we're seeing the deep divide created by that extreme ideology on both sides. … This is one of the most difficult presidential elections I've seen, but in that conversation with John Adams he'd probably say, 'This is nothing compared to the Jefferson race I had.'"\nLittle did the mayor know a week ago that the two elections would end up having more in common than he might have predicted.\nThe similarities between this year's presidential race and the one 220 years ago did not begin Tuesday, but more than a year ago.\nThe 1800 presidential election, the nation's fourth, was between Vice President Thomas Jefferson of the Democratic-Republican Party and President John Adams of the Federalist Party. The election, like this year's, was a bitter one that dragged on for more than a year. Historians described it as slanderous and fiercely partisan.\nFederalists said the Democratic-Republican Party was made up of radicals out to ruin the country, and Adams was attacked for favoring Britain and being too moderate a choice.\n"The two candidates today do not come close to the intellect of the two candidates then, but that aside, what we’re seeing is very similar," Koch said in an interview Thursday. "This president has used the term 'fake news,' and when you go back to the Jefferson/Adams race, the columnists were hired and paid to write vicious lies about the candidates. It was as nasty and vicious as a campaign has ever been."\nWant news like this sent straight to your inbox? Head over to MetroWestDailyNews.com to sign up for alerts and make sure you never miss a thing. You pick the news you want, we deliver.\nIt was during the 1800 campaign that first lady Abigail Adams referred to "electioneering," or candidates angling for political power for politics' sake.\n“Electioneering is already begun,”she wrote in a letter 13 months before the Electoral College was to meet.\n"It didn't take long, did it?" Koch said of the nation's quick dissent into bitter politics. "It is interesting and it makes you think about how history repeats itself.\n"Somebody came to me recently and said, ‘We’ve never seen anything like this’ and I thought, 'Well that may be true, but history certainly has. … The battle for the presidency is tough and brutal, no question. I mean, think about what's at stake. But when you're crossing that line of decency and respect, the Adams/Jefferson race will always stand out and, no matter the victor, this election will too."\nOn Thursday afternoon, nearly two days after polls closed, neither former Vice President Joe Biden nor President Donald Trump had secured the 270 electoral votes required to win the election.\nThe candidates remained in a deadlock that had all the makings of an Electoral College tie, something Adams learned a thing or two about more than 200 years ago.\nLike in 2020, the general election of 1800 came down to the bitter end.\nJefferson and Adams were tied with 63 Electoral College votes each until the last state, South Carolina, broke the tie in favor of Jefferson.\nHowever, a month later, when the Electoral College voted, Jefferson and his running mate, Aaron Burr, ended up tied at 73, with Adams in third. Electoral College ties go to House of Representatives, which took 36 ballots to break the tie in favor of Jefferson.\nCan Electoral College really tie at 269 to 269? It’s not likely but here’s how it works\nWhen the House breaks a tie, each state's delegation gets one vote, regardless of its size. So today, a candidate would need to win the backing of at least 26 state delegations to win the presidency. Although Democrats control the current House of Representatives, Republicans control the most delegations.\nThe 1800 race led to the creation of the 12th Amendment, which requires electors' votes to be cast separately for president and vice president, to prevent a similar scenario from happening again.\nOn Thursday, when Biden was 22 votes from an electoral victory, six states were still up for grabs. Because of the way those states' votes break down, there was, conceivably, a way for the two candidates to each end up with 269 votes, which would be the first electoral tie since 1880.\nWhile the chances of that happening are slim, Koch said the two races are still too similar for comfort. The nation's founding fathers, Adams included, would be horrified at the contentious, two-party system that now rules American politics, he said.\n"Both George Washington and John Adams expressed concern about a two-party system, and a lot of what they worried about has manifested today: loyalty to party rather than country, loyalty to party values rather than bringing our own values to the party," Koch said. "The divides are very deep and they’re driving our country."\nElection 2020 turnout far above the 2016 election. MetroWest and Milford area started with early voting and kept voting through Election Day.\nKoch said he hopes this year's race helps citizens understand the dangers of a nation divided. He said a look back at the Adams/Jefferson race can inspire others to do what Adams did: stay true to core values and don't bend to the pressures of politics.\n"With Adams, you have the issue of slavery as a perfect example. That was troubling to the Founding Fathers. They tried to deal with it early on, but they knew that if they did, they’d lose the support of the Southern colonies," Koch said. "We are still dealing with the stain of that tradition today, but from the beginning John and Abigail Adams were speaking about slavery with disdain for all the right reasons. … They stood up for what they knew was right."\nDefeated by Thomas Jefferson in the 1800 election, Adams retired to his Quincy home and died there on July 4, 1826, the same day Jefferson died at Monticello in Virginia. It was the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence.\nWhat are the recount rules? We break them down in key state\nReach Mary Whitfill at mwhitfill@wickedlocal.com}}
{{VIDEO: Moment Biden Calls Nigerian Family To Thank Them For Election Support, Invites Them To White House\nVIDEO: Moment Biden Calls Nigerian Family To Thank Them For Election Support, Invites Them To White House}}
{{CLEVELAND, Ohio -- Hundreds of Clevelanders turned out Saturday at the Free Stamp downtown to demonstrated their frustration and anger over the death of George Floyd by the hands of Minneapolis police.\nMore people are trickling in as of 1:15 p.m. to stand together in light of Floyd’s death.\nProtestors are holding signs, including “Black Lives Matter," “I won’t stand idly by" and “White Violence = State Violence.” Several people are wearing “I can’t breathe!” T-shirts, a reference to Floyd’s words while a police officer held his knee to Floyd’s neck. There are also references to Tamir Rice.\nSeveral people are handing out face masks, and people are trying their best to socially distance from each other. The Cleveland Pandemic Response Team handed out water and hand sanitizer.\n“No justice, no peace!” protestors chanted. An organizer yelled in the bullhorn, “We are here in harmony, and we are here in grief.” She asked people to sign up with names and emails so they could work together to end police brutality and to register to vote.\nPolice cruisers could be seen lined up parallel to the park before the protest began.\nCleveland.com’s Hannah Drown is live at the protest.\nHundreds protest over George Floyd’s death in Cleveland. Hannah Drown shares the scene. Leave your thoughts, messages in the comments. Posted by cleveland.com on Saturday, May 30, 2020\nMayor Frank Jackson and police Chief Calvin Williams on Friday said they are welcome in downtown Cleveland, as long as they are civil.\nFloyd died earlier this week in Minneapolis. Videos show former Minneapolis Police Officer Derel Chauvinan kneeling on Floyd’s neck. Floyd died Monday, not long after his arrest. Minneapolis police said he was accused of using a counterfeit bill at a convenience store.\nProsecutors charged Derek Chauvin on Friday with third degree murder and manslaughter.\nSince the video surfaced, there have been protests in cities across the country, including two nights in Columbus. U.S. Rep. Joyce Beatty and other prominent Columbus-area Democrats say they were pepper-sprayed by police during a protest there today.\nProtests in front of the police station in downtown Akron and in Mansfield have also begun today.\nRead more stories on cleveland.com:\nRead more stories on cleveland.com:\n5 arrested in second night of George Floyd protests in Columbus\nPentagon orders Army to put military police on alert to deploy to Minneapolis\nProtests over George Floyd’s death break out in NYC, all over country\nCleveland Mayor Frank Jackson, police Chief Calvin Williams welcome protests over death of George Floyd -- so long as they’re peaceful\nDemonstrators in Cleveland call on judges to grant early release to inmates in Ohio prisons ravaged by coronavirus}}
{{George Floyd's death: White power and the third option\nEmail Print Img No-img Menu Whatsapp Google Reddit Digg Stumbleupon Linkedin Comment\nI grew up in a diverse family. One of my grandmothers was White, another was Black and Chinese, and both of my grandfathers were Black. Three of my four grandparents hailed from Jamaica, and eventually immigrated to America.\nI was born and raised in Jamaica, Queens, where diversity was the norm in my home, but not in my neighborhood or at my school. My neighborhood was 95% black, and the neighborhood I attended school in was 100% white. Growing up in both environments forced me to learn how to operate in two racially-distinct worlds.\nDaily, I experienced racism. I was regularly called the ‘N’ word and targeted by racial jokes and comments as I made my way to and from school each day. On more than one occasion, I wasn’t sure if I’d make it home alive. And, to make things even worse, I experienced racial rejection in my own neighborhood as well, for not being “black enough.”\nI grew up in the culture of the sixties and early seventies, which was a racially volatile time in America. One of the most poignant lessons I learned early on, was that “white was right,” and that “black and brown” should “stand down.” This lesson embodied the very essence of “White Power,” and disobeying it resulted in incarceration or death for people who looked like me.\nIn essence, “White Power” meant that at any given time, a White person could tell me what to do, take what I had, and determine the outcome of my life. This is what I felt, no matter how true it really was. And people of color, like me, I knew, were powerless to stop it.\nAs much as White Power impacted me, it was worse for those who were darker than me and even worse for those who were darker-skinned and poor. Because my grandmother was white, I have light skin, causing white people to see more of themselves in me than in darker-skinned black people. That commonality, I was told, lessened their fear. But it didn’t change the fact that I was still just another ‘N’ word to some, causing me to experience a sense of powerlessness that plagued me into adulthood.\nRacism becomes even more dangerous when it is combined with this type of power. Though racism is something that anyone can experience regardless of their skin color, racism from White people is uniquely powerful, because it embodies the ability to express hatred in violent and demeaning ways, and get away with it. People of color are painfully aware of this fact, while most white people have no idea how great an impact their privilege has on the lives of their brothers and sisters of color.\nBeing called the “N” word is not just a derogatory term. Yes, it says to its target, “you are less than me,” but it also conveys the message, “Don’t forget that you have no power over me or your situation. I control you. I can wrong you, even kill you and get away with it, and you will have no power to change that.” This message is what causes people of color to feel powerless in witnessing the murders of black men and women like Ahmaud Arbrey, George Floyd, and Breonna Taylor. And it is exacerbated a thousand-fold by the sense that they have no way of ever changing it.\nThe cop kneeling on George Floyd’s neck, even after George was dead, was ultimately an expression of power. To make things worse, while the cop was killing George, he had his hand in his pocket. His casual but lethal exercise of power was embodied in his very posture, as a reminder to all of us “N’s” that he was in charge, and that the rest of us could do nothing about it.\nThe bottom line is that Whites have more power than Black people in America. And racial discrimination will not be eliminated until White power is used to end it. Blacks can scream until their faces turn purple, but unless White power is leveraged for their benefit, things will stay the same.\nIt would help tremendously if White people spoke out against abuses of power more consistently, and loudly. But their collective silence on this issue is deafening, and constitutes a form of withholding help from their brothers and sister in need. The best analogy I can equate it to is watching someone else drown, and having a life preserver, but choosing not to throw it in. As Martin Luther King Jr. so eloquently said, “In the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.”\nI have been sharing with my White friends that their silence tells communities of color, “We affirm our power, and we don’t want to jeopardize it.” It also signals a message that Whites reserve their power for White priorities, and that the lives and welfare of Black people is not one of them. By staying silent, they add fuel to the fire of an “us vs. them” culture, which causes everyone to feel like a “sell out” for speaking up for the “other” side.\nIt is culture, not God, who tells that being pro-black means being anti-white, or being pro-white is being anti-black. And it’s a lie. God commands us to be pro-people, pro-justice, and pro-love. That’s why I wrote a book called The Third Option, urging readers to reject the trap of “us vs. them” thinking, by choosing to honor our similarities as precious and beloved children of God, instead of focusing on the differences in the color of our skin.\nEveryone who says they care about these issues, always asks me what they can do to help, and I’m moved by their desire to take action. But rather than reinvent the wheel on how to change policy and culture, I’d rather focus on offering ideas regarding who we should work to become.\nBecome an honoring person: Convert every dishonoring label into an honoring one. Whatever label you give someone will be the filter through which your thoughts and expectations are shaped about them – for better or worse. Changing their labels in your heart leads to honoring and unifying beliefs about them, even when you may not understand their words or actions.\nBecome honest with yourself: Admit that you see color and be honest with yourself about the burdens that come with being a person of color in America. Ask yourself how it would feel if your relatives or people who looked like you were being killed and justice was denied because of their skin tone. Ask yourself whether you value a Black life the same as a White life, and whether you truly believe that Black people are made in the same image of God as Whites.\nBecome a humble learner: As I wrote in my book, The Third Option, a blind spot is being unaware of something that you don’t even know you think or believe. EVERYONE has blind spots, especially when it comes to race. And the only way to overcome them is by learning the truth about ourselves and others.\nEngage in conversations, and do so from a position of humility. Don’t assume the position of a teacher who has all of the answers. Put yourself in the shoes of another, and ask if what you believe about them is fair or true. You’ll be amazed at how simple awareness and an honest conversation can help you resolve your racial blind spots.\nBecome vocal! Use your words, your platform, and your power to say something. Express your remorse for what’s happening to the Black community. State your belief that all people are created equal and made in the image of God. Affirm your commitment to standing against injustice.\nBeing vocal will result in three outcomes: first, you will encourage the discouraged (1 Thessalonians 5:11); second, you will challenge others to stand for justice (Isaiah 1:17, Micah 6:8); and third, you will be blessed for “defending the defenseless” (Psalm 82:3).}}
{{ON 25 MAY, a man named George Floyd went to buy cigarettes in a corner store. After the transaction, he was accused of using a counterfeit €20 bill, and when he denied the accusation the police were called.\nPart of what happened next was captured on video by a bystander: the incident ended with a police officer spending almost nine minutes with his knee to the neck of a handcuffed Floyd. George Floyd died after the incident.\nThe release of the video led to huge outcry, not just in the US but globally. The police officer, Derek Chauvin, was charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter on 29 May, which was upgraded to second-degree murder on 3 June. Three other officers are to be charged in relation to George Floyd’s death.\nWith protests against the death ongoing, the conversation has turned globally to the long history of racism and discrimination against black Americans. On this week’s The Explainer, Glenn Burkins, editor of the Q City Metro in North Carolina, joins us to give an American perspective about the events.\nHe tells us about what the protests mean for African Americans, what they could mean for the Trump administration, and his feelings as an African American reporter and publisher.\nOur own reporter Stevie McDermott gives us a timeline of what happened since George Floyd’s death in May.\n#Open journalism No news is bad news Support The Journal Your contributions will help us continue to deliver the stories that are important to you Support us now\nSource: The Explainer/SoundCloud\nThis episode was put together by presenter Sinéad O’Carroll, producer Aoife Barry, assistant producer and technical operator Nicky Ryan, and executive producer Christine Bohan. Guests were Stephen McDermott of TheJournal.ie and Glenn Burkins, publisher of Q City Metro. Design by Palash Somani.}}
{{President Donald Trump called Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp on Saturday and asked him to convince state legislators to help overturn President-elect Joe Biden's win in Georgia and permit an audit of signatures on the absentee ballots.\nThe request is Trump's latest attempt to interfere with the results of the 2020 presidential election, in a state where two GOP Senate runoff races in January could decide which party controls the Senate.\nThe call was first reported by The Washington Post.\nPresident Donald Trump called Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp on Saturday and asked him to convince state legislators to help overturn President-elect Joe Biden's win in Georgia and permit an audit of signatures on absentee ballots.\nThe request is Trump's latest attempt to interfere with the results of the 2020 presidential election in a state where two GOP Senate runoff races in January could decide which party controls the Senate. The call was first reported by The Washington Post.\nTrump has argued without evidence that Georgia election officials took voter ballots with signatures that didn't match the ones on file. A recount in Georgia following the election affirmed Biden's victory and the results have been certified.\nThe president referenced the call in a tweet on Saturday afternoon, calling for a signature audit of Georgia's absentee ballots and claiming discrepancies in the process.\n"I will easily & quickly win Georgia if Governor @BrianKempGA or the Secretary of State permit a simple signature verification," Trump wrote. "Has not been done and will show large scale discrepancies. Why are these two "Republicans" saying no? If we win Georgia, everything else falls in place!"\nAs I told the President this morning, I’ve publicly called for a signature audit three times (11/20, 11/24, 12/3) to restore confidence in our election process and to ensure that only legal votes are counted in Georgia. #gapol https://t.co/xdXrhf1vI2 — Brian Kemp (@BrianKempGA) December 5, 2020\nKemp, a Republican and longtime Trump ally, wrote on Saturday in response to the president's tweet: "As I told the President this morning, I've publicly called for a signature audit three times (11/20, 11/24, 12/3) to restore confidence in our election process and to ensure that only legal votes are counted in Georgia."\nIn another tweet, the president urged Kemp to "immediately" request a special session in the state legislature.\nThe governor reportedly declined the president's request during the call, an anonymous source told The Post. Kemp's office's has said publicly that state law prohibits the governor from interfering in elections.\nGabriel Sterling, a Republican official in the Georgia Secretary of State's office, said Trump's baseless claims of election fraud have endangered election officials by inciting death threats and harassment.\nKemp spokesman Cody Hall confirmed that the president called the governor, but only said that Trump offered his condolences on the death of Harrison Deal, a young aide for Sen. Kelly Loeffler. CNBC has reached out to the Trump campaign for comment.\nTrump is campaigning for Sens. Loeffler and David Perdue in the state tonight, who are facing runoff elections against Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff.}}
{{Billy Briggs, who lives just 170 steps from where George Floyd was killed, created and maintains the countdown sign at the gas station on the corner of George Floyd Square in Minneapolis, Minn. On Sunday, the eve of the trial date, he updated it to “1”. (Jeff Wheeler /Star Tribune via AP) This file photo provided by the Ramsey County, Minn., Sheriff’s Office shows former Minneapolis police Officer Derek Chauvin, who was arrested Friday, May 29, 2020, in the Memorial Day death of George Floyd. Chauvin is charged with second-degree murder and manslaughter and jury selection in his trial begins Monday, March 8, 2021. (Ramsey County Sheriff’s Office via AP, File) FILE - In this Sept. 11, 2020 file photo, Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison, right, addresses reporters outside the Hennepin County Family Justice Center in Minneapolis. Jury selection begins Monday, March 8, 2021, for Derek Chauvin, a former Minneapolis police officer charged with murder and manslaughter in George Floyd’s death. Ellison is the lead prosecutor in the case. (AP Photo/Jim Mone, File) Demonstrators gather outside the Hennepin County Government Center, Monday, March 8, 2021, in Minneapolis where the trial for former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin began with jury selection. Chauvin is charged with murder in the death of George Floyd during an arrest last May in Minneapolis. (AP Photo/Jim Mone)\nThe judge overseeing the trial of a former Minneapolis police officer accused in the death of George Floyd on Monday paused jury selection for at least a day while an appeal proceeds over the possible reinstatement of a third-degree murder charge.\nAs hundreds of protesters gathered outside the courthouse to call for the conviction of Derek Chauvin, Judge Peter Cahill said he does not have jurisdiction to rule on whether the third-degree murder charge should be reinstated against the former officer while the issue is being appealed. But he said prosecutors’ arguments that the whole case would be impacted were “tenuous.”\nCahill planned to go ahead with the trial anyway and initially ruled jury selection would begin as scheduled on Monday. But after prosecutors filed a request with the Court of Appeals to put the case on hold, the judge sent the potential jurors home for the day. Cahill called a recess to give the Court of Appeals time to respond, but planned to bring attorneys back into the courtroom Monday afternoon to deal with other matters.\nCahill said the trial would proceed unless the higher courts told him to stop.\nChauvin is charged with second-degree murder and manslaughter in Floyd’s death. The Court of Appeals last week ordered Cahill to consider reinstating a third-degree murder charge that he had dismissed. Legal experts say reinstating the charge would improve the odds of getting a conviction.\nChauvin’s attorney, Eric Nelson, said Monday he would ask the state Supreme Court to review the appellate ruling. He has 30 days to seek a review.\nFor the unintentional second-degree murder charge, prosecutors have to prove that Chauvin’s conduct was a “substantial causal factor” in Floyd’s death, and that Chauvin was committing felony assault at the time. For third-degree murder, they must prove that Chauvin’s actions caused Floyd’s death, and that his actions were reckless and without regard for human life.\nFloyd was declared dead May 25 after Chauvin, who is white, pressed his knee against the handcuffed Black man’s neck for about nine minutes, holding his position even after Floyd went limp. Floyd’s death sparked sometimes violent protests in Minneapolis and beyond, and led to a nationwide reckoning on race.\nChauvin and three other officers were fired; the others face an August trial on aiding and abetting charges.\nHundreds of people gathered outside the courthouse as proceedings began, many carrying signs that read, “Justice for George Floyd” and “Convict Killer Cops.”\nOne speaker took a microphone and decried the concrete barriers topped by chain-link fencing, barbed wire and razor wire set up around the courthouse. DJ Hooker, 26, also ridiculed talk of the Chauvin trial as “the trial of the century,” saying the jury simply needs to “do the right thing.”\nThen he led the crowd in chants of “The whole world is watching!”\nInside the courtroom, Chauvin, in a blue suit and black mask, followed the proceedings attentively, making notes on a legal pad. Bridgett Floyd, George Floyd’s sister and founder of the George Floyd Memorial Foundation, sat in the seat allocated to Floyd’s family. No one attended to support Chauvin.\nOnce jury selection starts, it is expected to take at least three weeks, as prosecutors and defence attorneys try to weed out people who may be biased against them.\n“You don’t want jurors who are completely blank slates, because that would mean they’re not in tune at all with the world,” Susan Gaertner, a former prosecutor, said. “But what you want is jurors who can set aside opinions that have formed prior to walking into the courtroom and give both sides a fair hearing.”\nNelson earlier argued that pretrial publicity of the case and the subsequent violent unrest in Minneapolis would make it impossible to find an impartial jury in Hennepin County. But Cahill said last year that moving the trial probably wouldn’t cure the problem of a potentially tainted jury pool because “no corner of the State of Minnesota” has been shielded from pretrial publicity.\nThe potential jurors — who must be at least 18, U.S. citizens and residents of Hennepin County — were sent questionnaires to determine how much they have heard about the case and whether they’ve formed any opinions. Besides biographical and demographic information, jurors were asked about prior contacts with police, whether they have protested against police brutality and whether they believe the justice system is fair.\nSome of the questions get specific, such as how often a potential juror has watched the bystander video of Floyd’s arrest, or whether they carried a sign at a protest and what that sign said.\nREAD MORE: Officer was on George Floyd’s neck for about 9 minutes: U.S. prosecutors\nMike Brandt, a local defence attorney, said prosecutors will likely seek out jurors who have favourable opinions on the Black Lives Matter movement or might have more outrage over Floyd’s death, while Chauvin’s attorneys would likely favour jurors who support the police.\nUnlike typical jury selection proceedings, potential jurors will be questioned individually rather than in a group. The judge, defence attorney and prosecutors will all get to ask questions. The defence can object to up to 15 potential jurors without giving a reason; prosecutors can block up to nine without providing a reason. Either side can object to these peremptory challenges if they believe the sole reason for disqualifying a juror is race or gender.\nBoth sides can also argue to dismiss an unlimited number of jurors “for cause,” meaning they must provide a reason why they believe that juror shouldn’t serve. Those situations can get into “some tortured questioning,” Brandt said. It’s up to the judge to decide whether a juror stays or goes.\nHe said that even if a juror says they have had a negative interaction with the police or hold negative views about Black Lives Matter, the key will be trying to find out whether they can put those past experiences or opinions aside and be fair.\n“We all walk into these with biases. The question is, can you put those biases aside and be fair in this case,” he said.\nJury selection will end after 14 people are picked — 12 jurors who will deliberate the case and two alternates who won’t be part of deliberations unless needed. The jurors will be escorted to the courthouse daily and sequestered during deliberations. Their names will be kept confidential until further order of the court.\nThe number of seats in the courtroom has been limited to maintain social distancing due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and seats for jurors have been spaced out. Like others in the courtroom, jurors will be required to wear masks.\nThe earliest opening statements will begin is March 29.\n___\nAssociated Press writer Mohamed Ibrahim contributed this report.\n___\nAmy Forliti And Steve Karnowski, The Associated Press\nLike us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter.\nWant to support local journalism during the pandemic? Make a donation here.\nRacial injusticeUSA}}
{{House Speaker Nancy Pelosi presides over the first session of the 117th Congress in the House of Representatives at the U.S. Capitol Building on Sunday in Washington, D.C.}}
{{KeithBinns/iStockBy GUY DAVIES, ABC News\n(LONDON) — Beirut, the capital of Lebanon, was rocked by a massive explosion on Tuesday evening, with footage from the ground showing significant damage and plumes of smoke rising above the city.\nTwo explosions occurred in Beirut’s port, potentially injuring dozens, according to the AFP. Firefighters were seen battling flames at the scene of the blast. It is not yet known what caused the explosions.\nThe Lebanese Health Minister reportedly said there were a “very high number of injuries.”\nGhada Alsharif, a reporter from the Daily Star, one of Lebanon’s most prominent news outlets, posted a video on social media showing significant damage within the newspaper’s office building. Firefighters were seen battling flames at the scene of the blast. It is not yet known what caused the explosion.\nThe Lebanese Red Cross have dispatched 30 teams to the scene and are making an urgent call for blood donations.\nOther eyewitnesses have said there are multiple fires still burning and that windows of apartment buildings were shattered in a large radius around the blast site. Video from the ground in Beirut shows cars crushed by rubble, injured people walking through debris and extensive damage to nearby buildings.\nAlyssa Farah, the White House director of Strategic Communications, tweeted that President Donald Trump had been briefed about the explosion.\n“Praying for the safety of the people of Lebanon,” she posted on Twitter. “The President has been briefed. We continue to monitor the situation closely.”\nThe blast comes at a time of heightened tension between the Iranian-backed group Hezbollah, which makes up part of the Lebanese government, and neighboring Israel. An Israeli military official told ABC News they had no comment on the blast.\nThe country is also in a position of severe financial difficulty which has exacerbated sectarian tensions within the country in recent months.\nSo far there has been no official comment from the Lebanese government.\nCopyright © 2020, ABC Audio. All rights reserved.}}
{{By Karen Ruiz For Dailymail.com and Matthew Wright For Dailymail.com\nPublished: 21:35 EST, 4 November 2020 | Updated: 22:19 EST, 4 November 2020\nElection betting odds continue to climb in favor of Joe Biden as the vote counting rolls over into Thursday in the last remaining battleground states.\nBiden’s odds to win the presidential election have now hit an all-time high after securing Wisconsin and Michigan and as mail-in ballots continue to be counted in Pennsylvania, Georgia and Nevada.\nBetting markets currently have the Democrat at a 86.7 percent chance of beating President Donald Trump, according to gambling website Betfair.\nElection Betting Odds currently has Biden at a 87.7 percent chance of winning and Trump at 11.6 percent.\nThe uptick comes as mail-in ballots have turned the tide for Biden in the last 24 hours.\nElection betting odds continue to climb in favor of Joe Biden as the vote counting rolls over into Thursday in the last remaining battleground states.\nBetting markets currently have the Democrat at a more than 85 percent chance of beating President Donald Trump\nBiden went into the election as the favorite among bookies.\nUp until late Tuesday, Biden had been the front runner with a 69 percent chance of winning.\nAs votes began to roll in, however, the odds flipped in favor of Trump with his chances of victory soaring to nearly 77 percent.\nThose figures were a significant jump from Trump’s odds at the start of Election Day when gamblers placed him at a 40 per cent chance of re-election.\nBiden’s odds took a massive blow by about 9.45pm when they dipped to 48 percent as Trump secured several key battleground states including Florida and Texas.\nThe predictions are based on betting markets outside the United States, the majority European, as it is illegal for Americans to gamble on politics.\nThe high-stakes election, which comes in the midst of a tumultuous year spurred by the coronavirus pandemic, is now one of the largest betting events in history with $460million on the line, according to Oddschecker.\nTrump and Biden were locked in tight races in battleground states across the country Tuesday night as they concluded an epic campaign that will shape America’s response to the surging pandemic and foundational questions of economic fairness and racial justice.\nSupporters fill the street as Democratic presidential candidate former Vice President Joe Biden speaks during a stop in Philadelphia on Tuesday\nProtesters gather in front of the White House during the 2020 presidential election\nFrom coast to coast, races were too early to call in the most fiercely contested states on the map, including North Carolina, Georgia and Pennsylvania.\nBoth candidate each picked up some predictable victories, with Trump taking states including Kansas and North Dakota and Biden’s haul including Colorado and Virginia, two former battlegrounds that have become Democratic strongholds.\nAmericans made their choices as the nation faced a confluence of historic crises with each candidate declaring the other fundamentally unfit to navigate the challenges.\nDaily life has been upended by the coronavirus, which has killed more than 232,000 Americans and cost millions of jobs.\nMillions of voters put aside worries about the virus – and some long lines – to turn out in person, joining 102 million fellow Americans who voted days or weeks earlier, a record number that represented 73 per cent of the total vote in the 2016 presidential election.\nEarly results in several key battleground states were in flux as election officials processed a historically large number of mail-in votes.\nDemocrats typically outperform Republicans in mail voting, while the GOP looks to make up ground in Election Day turnout.\nThat means the early margins between the candidates could be influenced by which type of votes – early or Election Day – were being reported by the states.\nBiden entered Election Day with multiple paths to victory, while Trump, playing catch-up in a number of battleground states, had a narrower but still feasible road to clinch 270 Electoral College votes.}}
{{50 Cent: Rapper 50 Cent endorsed Donald Trump stating that Joe Biden’s tax policy will turn him into ’20 Cent.’\nThe Hip-Hop mogul, 45, sparked a social media circus when he shared an image of the super tax the Democrat candidate was proposing – 62 percent for those earning more than $400,000 in New York City, 50 Cent’s home.\n‘WHAT THE F—! (VOTE ForTRUMP) IM OUT.’ 50 Cent wrote. ‘I don’t care Trump doesn’t like black people 62% are you out of ya f—ing mind.’\n50 Cent later appeared to change his mind, saying: ‘F*** Donald Trump, I never liked him.’ After Lil Wayne’s post he tweeted: ‘oh no WAYNE, I WOULD HAVE NEVER TOOK THIS PICTURE.’\nIce Cube: The rapper confirmed that he will collaborate with the Trump Administration on a program to invest in black communities.\nHe defended his decision to work with Donald Trump on a plan for black Americans, insisting he is ‘working with whoever is in power’ and that he is ‘not on nobody’s team’.\nIce Cube hit headlines after it was revealed his organization would work with the Trump administration’s Platinum Plan, which the President has held up as a program to support invest capital in black communities.\nHerschel Walker: The retired football great has also voiced his support for Trump.\nIn a recent interview, he slammed the press for not scrutinizing Joe Biden’s relationship with a former Klansman-turned-senator while warning that voters should re-elect President Trump because ‘Democrats do not like America.’\nThe former All Pro running back, who spoke in support of Trump at the Republican National Convention this past summer, said Democrats will ‘take your freedoms’ if they win in November.\nDennis Rodman: Former NBA star Rodman has previously said that he likes Trump as a friend but has been more tight-lipped about whether he likes him as president.\nHe took an about turn this year, however, calling Trump for a ‘Make America Great Again’ tweet days after he death of black man George Floyd in police custody.\n‘Make America Safe for minorities,’ Rodman returned.\nMike Tyson: Trump and Tyson have had a rocky friendship and business partnerships for at least 30 years.\nTyson endorsed Trump for president in 2016 and is said to have played an instrumental part in securing votes.\nThe pair still appear to be close friends with Trump in May sending words of encouragement via Twitter after Tyson announced his plan to return to the ring.\n‘Keep punching Mike!’ he wrote.\nFloyd Mayweather: In November 2016 as Trump was elected, Mayweather defended his vulgar comments about women calling it ‘locker room talk’.\n‘Listen, if y’all didn’t want the man in the White House, y’all should have voted the other way,’ Mayweather told Hollywood Unlocked.\nMore recently he has tried to distance himself from the president, however, and hit back at claims that they are friends.\n‘I don’t want my name in no bulls–t,’ Mayweather told TMZ in 2018. ‘I’m out of it.’\nKanye West: While the rapper is attempting to run for the presidency himself this year, he has previously spoken out in support of Trump and worn a Make America Great Again hat as he visited the Oval Office in 2018.\nHe told Trump that he ‘is on his hero’s journey’. West told Trump, ‘I love you,’ as he came around to give him a hug.\nOn July 4, he announced that he no longer supported Trump as he launched his own presidential bid.\n‘I am taking the red hat off, with this interview,’ he told Forbes.\nHe also said it was wrong to assume that black people will always vote for Democrats. ‘To say that the Black vote is Democratic is a form of racism and white supremacy,’ he claimed.\nThe rapper has denied claims that he is being used by Trump to siphon black votes from the Democrats with his presidential bid this year.\nKentucky Attorney General Daniel Cameron: The Kentucky AG has become a high-profile name this year for his role in the Breonna Taylor case.\nTrump also shortlisted him on his Supreme Court nominee list and he spoke at the Republican National Convention in support of the president.\nCameron has claimed that Trump is the ‘best for this country’ amid racial strife.\n‘Whether it be economically, or whether it is related to how he fights every day for the American worker,’ he told ABC News.\n‘I appreciate the values that this party upholds and I think they’ve been consistent with the way that the president has conducted himself in the last four years.’\nShawne Merriman: The former linebacker has said that he believes Trump is misunderstood but that he has ‘always been a good friend’.\n‘He’s a little bit more honest than others,’ Merriman admitted.\nHe had been a critic of Clinton in the lead-up to the 2016 election, slamming her over the email scandal.\n‘Moral of the story, you lose when you delete,’ he tweeted after Trump’s victory.}}
{{IntelliBriefs bring you Intelligence briefs on Geopolitics , Security and Intelligence from around the world . We gather information and insights from multiple sources and present you in a digestible format to quench your thirst for right perspective, with right information at right time at right place . We encourage people to contact us with any relevant information that other news media organizations don't cover . Contact :intellibriefs@gmail.com}}
{{Brian Deese selected as Biden economic adviser: report Monday, 30 November 2020 ( 3 days ago )\nOnetime senior Obama administration official Brian Deese will serve as the director of the National Economic Council in President-elect... 👓 View full article\n0\nshares ShareTweetSavePostSend You Might Like}}
{{MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. (KLAS/CNN) — The state of Minnesota has called in an additional 1,000 National Guard members to help get Minneapolis under control as protests and looting continues over the death of George Floyd, who died in police custody on Monday.\nGovernor Tim Walz said it is the largest domestic deployment in the Minnesota National Guard’s 164-year history.\nMore than 1,000 additional Citizen-Soldiers and Airmen are activating today. This is in addition to the 700 that were on duty as of late last night. This represents the largest domestic deployment in the Minnesota’s National Guard’s 164-year history. pic.twitter.com/aV9NOFv5uo — MN National Guard (@MNNationalGuard) May 30, 2020\nWalz said the protests over George Floyd’s death have taken a turn.\n“So let’s be very clear. The situation in Minneapolis is no longer in any way about the murder of George Floyd. It is about attacking civil society, instilling fear, and disrupting our great cities,” Gov. Tim Walz said during a press conference on Saturday.\nMinnesotans are asking for and deserve confidence that we can respond to this crisis, and we will. We are continuing to coordinate efforts at the state and local level while accessing resources from across the country to keep our communities safe. I urge for peace at this time. — Governor Tim Walz (@GovTimWalz) May 30, 2020\nSeven hundred soldiers and airmen were on duty Friday night as protesters rallied for a fourth straight night.\nGov. Walz blamed much of the destruction in Minneapolis Friday night on well-organized, out-of-state instigators whose goal was to “destabilize civil society.”\nMinnesota Public Safety Commissioner John Harrington vowed a stronger police presence and a change in tactics “because this is intolerable and we are coming to stop it.”\nProtests spread around the United States on Friday, as his case renewed anger over others involving African Americans, police, and race relations.\nProtests were largely peaceful as demonstrators marched in the streets from Los Angeles to Las Vegas to New York, but in Atlanta, demonstrators set a police car ablaze and broke windows at CNN’s headquarters.}}
{{U.S. officials said Wednesday there is no indication the massive explosion in Lebanon that killed at least 100 people was an attack, contradicting President Donald Trump who said American generals told him it was likely caused by a bomb.\nThe officials, speaking only on condition of anonymity to discuss internal assessments, said that while it was not out of the realm of possibility that the blast was deliberately caused, the belief so far was that it was most likely an accident.\nFrom the outset, U.S. officials have said that they did not know the cause of the initial fire and explosions that set off the larger blast. But they say they do believe the reports out of Lebanon claiming a large stockpile of ammonium nitrate left over from a seizure is what exploded.\nRELATED: Beirut blast: Massive explosion shakes Lebanon's capital; at least 70 dead, thousands injured\nOn Tuesday, Trump said, “It looks like a terrible attack."\nTrump was asked why he called it an attack and not an accident, especially since Lebanese officials said they had not determined the cause of the explosion. He told reporters at the White House: “It would seem like it based on the explosion. I met with some of our great generals and they just seem to feel that it was. This was not a — some kind of a manufacturing explosion type of a event. ... They seem to think it was an attack. It was a bomb of some kind, yes.”\nAdvertisement\nFrom video and other evidence, experts suggest that fireworks and ammonium nitrate were the fuel that ignited the explosion that rocked the Lebanese capital. The scale of the damage — from the area of the explosion at the port of Beirut to the windows blown out miles away — resembled other blasts involving the chemical compound commonly used as an agricultural fertilizer.\nThe compound typically does not detonate on its own and requires another ignition source. That likely came from a fire that engulfed what initially appeared to be fireworks stored at the port. The Lebanese government said it was putting an unspecified number of Beirut port officials under house arrest pending an investigation into how 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate came to be stored at the port for years.\nU.S. officials said that there were no indications that any Americans stationed in Beirut were killed or injured. Trump said the United States stood ready to assist Lebanon.\nSecretary of State Mike Pompeo spoke Wednesday with Lebanon's Prime Minister Hassan Diab to convey U.S. condolences to the Lebanese people, according to State Department deputy spokesperson Cale Brown.}}
{{Transcript for ABC News Live Update: President-elect Joe Biden to take oath of office Wednesday\nGood morning I'm Diane Macedo thanks for streaming with us in today's update president Tom has issued an order lifting restrictions on travelers from Brazil the UK Ireland and much of Europe. How to move comes amid concerns of newer strains found in South Africa the UK and Brazil of the corona virus. Now the incoming Biden administration says the order will be reversed before it even takes effect. The soon to be Press Secretary writes on Twitter this is not the time to be lifting restrictions on international travel. Nearly 400000. People have now died in the US from Covert nineteen. Meanwhile president elect Biden will be the first president to be sworn in without any confirmed cabinet members. This confirmation hearings started today with Biden's nominee for secretary of Homeland Security. Vowing to keep the nation safe from threats like the assault on the capital. The love for this country that I learned from my parents. Only meet the January 6 attack in our cap capitals. All the more horrifying. Guess I should have the honor of being confirmed I will do everything I can. To ensure that the tragic loss of life the assault on law enforcement. The desecration of the building that stands as one of the three pillars of our democracy. The terrorists picked you felt your colleagues. Staff and everyone president will not happen again. Ahead of inauguration day tomorrow all the major bridges entering the nation's capital are shut down and thousands of federal agents and police. Are on high alert along with 21500. National Guard now on duty. And president trump is preparing his final clemency list before leaving office. After considering pardons for himself and his children in the face of possible criminal investigations. Sources tell ABC news that it's now unlikely. But he is expected to issue over 100 other pardons. For names like rapper and trump supportable waned situated this picture after meeting with the president in October. But not on the list his personal attorney Rudy Giuliani whose business dealings are under investigation by federal prosecutors in New York. He tells ABC news he's not getting a pardon and sources tell ABC news speaker Nancy Pelosi may wait until Thursday or Friday to send the article of impeachment to the senate. The constitution dictates that when she does the senate trial have to begin at 1 PM the next day. Now president trumps final full day in the White House First Lady maligning a trump is hitting a farewell of her own. In a new video the First Lady is defending her legacy highlighting her work on cyber bullying. And her personal touches to the White House our timing Imus has a closer look at the high points. And low points. My fellow medic tends. Because being dubious honor of my life to send us their CD of the United States. First Lady Maloney a trump saying goodbye to the White House and exiting just like she arrived shrouded in privacy. And they seem inescapable controversy. In her farewell address the First Lady defended her legacy but also seemed to hint at the violence inflicted by her husband supporters at the capitol. Be passionate in everything you do but police demand them. That the violence he's never had to and soon. And will never be justified. From the start Milan get trump made it clear she would be a different type of First Lady. Initially refusing to move to the White House reportedly sober son Barron could finish school in New York City. Then a devastating story broke and we're gonna begin that would that new scandal rocking the White House and stormy Daniels stormy Daniels the Wall Street Journal reporting the president's personal attorney at the time Michael Cohen. Made a hush money payments to porn star stormy Daniels to cover up at alleged sexual encounter. In the only one on one interview she did with the broadcast network she addressed this typical time. You did agree to this interview to your credit with no preconditions. Could only that there could be some some tough questions asked. You're not the first First Lady to have to deal with her husband's alleged infidelities has mystery on your marriage think he's not concerned. And focus a mind I'm on my benefit CD and have much more important things still think about them to do. I know people like could act respectfully can media next to speculate about our marriage and so it could lead to gossip. The scrutiny didn't end there when the First Lady decided to take on cyber bullying as he's ordered her to be best initiative. Many point to the irony that her husband was perhaps the biggest cyber bully on the planet what happened to you personally that you thought you were to tackle this issue. I could say I'm the most complete person on the world you think you're the most bleak personal one of them. If you do you see what people are saying about tools and sometimes you know people who would not. Say to you face to face but the hiking could be kinda keep books and that's the danger. I've seen your speech is about to be best. You make it a point to say adults have to set the example when it comes to be best and it comes to social media. He's tough when your husband. Goes on Twitter at he's also been known to name call and be so aggressive. An end to bully other people. I don't feel bracelet she posts. Fact she's action EC's action and to iPad content. I know I would be would he treat each sees him to talking about us have been waiting. But he could not stop me to do what it's right. Best initiative. Several countries in Africa to raise awareness about US UK ID programs there but this is Trump's actions even when she tried to show goodwill. Many times backfired. In Egypt in foreign of one of the world's greatest sights she seemed to turn the pyramids into a backdrop for an impromptu fashion show anyone up for most notable moments. While visiting. Undocumented migrant children detained at the border. The First Lady was photographed wearing this jacket which read I really don't care do you want to you Wear. You know I often. Asking myself if I would not for the defendant jacket thief I would have so much media coverage it's so obvious I. I went to Jack had to go on to planes and off the plane. Any list for the people float and foot their left. The weaned media. Who are criticizing me and I want to show them that I don't care if you quickly decides what ever it. You wanna say that he could not stop me to do what I feeds right. Mrs. trump or former model. Did not let it stop her from express yourself through her other fashion choices. People who see here's someone who really did support her husband's agenda and was started in the hard as a whole strange norm breaking complicated legacy it'll ass glory years. And turned to her work your choices were non raging. The First Lady also put her touch on the White House we're debating the bowling Alley. The tennis pavilion and repairing the Rose Garden which didn't need some repairs but she drew some criticism. Because she remove several trees and shows roses with. Taylor tones. Her closest aides have said she did not seek the spotlight but she did a lot of work good work behind the scenes. Reporting from the side of Manhattan Tom jobless ABC news' Diane back to you. Night Tom thank you. And the pandemic has made for a very difficult job market but some are seeing it as an opportunity to make a career change. Chief business and economics correspondent Rebecca Jarvis has more. On the people who seize the moment. When Julie along left her job is a professor in taxes to be closer to family in Illinois finding a new gig wasn't easy. Or over a hundred jobs. And it's really nothing was taking half suit Julie decided to give it up well in the not a cheater and a lot of parents what helper now she created her business the traveling tutor and started using FaceBook to build a clientele. And now what began as a way to make extra income has become so much more. As it picked up and this is something do you want you asked my actual career even if you think you black the education to be a tutor consider what customer service representative Kate Lind 'cause he did. She completed an online training to become a certified ESL teacher through teacher way a company that will also help to find her teaching and tutoring jobs remotely. Integrate witness supplement in right now look at everyone I've seen some sort of an act from Kobe didn't. Now like I'm Sharon how I am leans. And Julian Caitlin aren't alone more than two million Americans have started freelancing in the last year. And people are launching businesses at the fastest read in more than a decade with business applications up more than 25%. Compared to this time last year. Like it Nicholas Bryant shaft in Tampa Florida who was laid off last march and started a meal delivery service called impostor pacts with his brother gray. Words. They all learned primary and won big. You are a running. Now nearly a year later at the company is thriving. Expanding beyond the Tampa area. This success in. This race markets Nixie thank. Really really special really lucky. You know we were able students who. Some RO use this the pressure this situation. Who gonna do. But people aren't just using their current skill set a new waste Jenna 'cause stayed Lille works in commercial real estate but learned to sell an embroidered during the pandemic I didn't really. Job security in an industry that's rapidly changing because of Kermit nineteenth she created her Etsy shops son of a stitch in September where she makes custom embroidered designs. The last few months and murder yet. 300 announced. And with sites like up work dot com and fiber dot com. You confine these types of freelance opportunities everything from tutoring took cooking web design and fitness instruction. And keep in mind there can be some start up costs here. So you want to make sure that ultimately over time those will pay off you can look at these web sites figure out what would make on an hourly basis. And make sure you can apply that level of consistency. To your life to make this a real freelancing gate that truly pays you real money. Diane. All right sounds good Rebecca Jarvis thank you. Let's train investor and shark tank costar Kevin O'Leary now for more on this Kevin good morning thanks for being here. What you think there's some of the most marketable skills for people trying to do or back is talking about trying to do a career pivot. We'll notice those businesses Rebecca was detailing were all direct to consumer and that is what's occurring in America since March 7. I call the great digital pen and America 2.0. All of these startups have done something very. Let's call it even crafty pictured I think can use the Internet. To acquire customers and sell them directly. But practical 100% gross margin and the Kia that is understand the technology so step one is top grade. Your Internet from your home so that it can work properly when you're using the Internet because a lot of people have very poor standing with from the got to fix that. But number two of the tell us that really matter now are storytelling. Script writing photography. Video in video editing animation. Because that's how you build a web site tell a story and sell a product. I used to lecture all the time to business school grads save you want a guarantee job number one as engineering number twos engineering number three is engineering. But today I'm wrong because last year my number one expense was artists. They've got what I'm curious though everyone that you're mentioning is an entrepreneur someone who's decided to go out on their own what about. For people who want the security of working for an existing company I know especially for people were in. Their mid thirties or older can be really difficult to get companies to even consider you. Again you have to go to the Internet number one that only to end with a three paragraph no more than that resonate. Nobody reads more than that and number one messaging in that. Used to tell your perspective employer how you can help and execute their mandate. Don't talk about your dog from high school or you're great on the football team nobody cares. What they care about is what can you do to help them drive growth in their business that's the most important thing you can deliver but again you've got to use technology. Every single platform that is the new modern way and by the way getting a corporate job is great but there's nothing wrong with a side consulate night. That's what millions of Americans are doing now to supplement their income and it's not going to stop the whole world is changes hit an additional you can do two things work corporate. Inside hustle and bring in another fifteen to 20000 a year it's worth doing. You never know sometimes aside muscle turns into the full time gig maybe people in the land on shark tank with it. That Kevin how can people be sure. That they will make enough money to justify a job switch whether they're going off on their own northern trying to to pitted and worked for a different kind of company. And how much should that factor into your decision. Closing the great news now is that because you've got platforms like FaceBook and Rebecca detail that you can do geo lost advertising so another words. There's a way to tell your story within the circumference of a hundred miles or sixty miles or fifteen miles that you actually wanted to work because many people in mid thirties raising kids don't wanna fly to San Francisco for a job. The trying to figure how to do it even though they've been displaced and there were millions of people displaced. But we have the tools across my portfolio over fifty companies eighty cents on the dollar. In our digital standing for all kinds of things like recruiting is going to facial right now because of GO locked advertising so if you live in Tallahassee eleven. Chattanooga earlier in Austin, Texas you wanna stay there and work there state your digital dollars wisely advertising yourself in your geographic region. The technology exists to do that now and learn how to tell your story take a photograph show video get your personality out there and it's worth doing. Because companies in many sectors like going electronic vehicles or electric vehicles are all kinds of direct consumer businesses are hiring like crazy right now. The economy is actually pretty good even though we're in the middle of this horrific pandemic. Then at you're talking about though you talked about the skills that you see doing well right now what are the businesses. That you see booming right now in that you think we'll keep doing well after the pandemic it's. We'll. Any business it's figured out how to sell direct consumer for from a giant like ninety in their last quarter. Show that 50%. Of their business is now direct to consumer worldwide they thought that would take them six years to achieve that. They get in five months in the middle of the pandemic who did they hired to do that. Artists photographers video on her first animators because they had to tell a story and they have to make a 592 commercial or twenty nine's second commercial. These skill sets that used to be you know at the hand of a teenager being really great. One ticket top or something else are now required by corporations. There's no more starving artists out there are fully employed if they want to be. It's a good time for the creative shark tanks Kevin O'Leary tell a great to have you can thank you. Take care. And that does it for this ABC news live update I'm Diana stayed on thanks for joining us and remember ABC news live is here for you all day with the latest news context and analysis. Cause you back here at 3 PM eastern with Terry Murray and for the breakdown.\nThis transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.}}
{{Turkey sends rescue and medical teams after Beirut explosion\nISTANBUL (AP) — Turkey said Wednesday it is sending search and rescue teams along with emergency medical personnel to aid Lebanese authorities in the aftermath of the devastating explosion that killed at least 100 people in Beirut and injured thousands.\nForeign Ministry spokesman Hami Aksoy said a field hospital was also in the works, adding that Turkey was sending humanitarian aid, medical equipment and medicine to Beirut.\nThe dispatched teams were from Turkey's health ministry, disaster and emergency authority and the Red Crescent.\nSix Turkish citizens were injured in the massive explosion, including one who needed surgery, Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu tweeted.\nTurkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan spoke on the phone with Lebanese President Michel Auon late Tuesday and tweeted his condolences after the incident.\nA Turkish aid organization, Humanitarian Relief Foundation, was working in Beirut to help the injured get to hospitals. The group also tweeted it was preparing food packs for the victims.\n“We will continue giving Lebanon all support with the hope that these difficult days will be overcome as soon as possible through solidarity and cooperation,” the foreign ministry spokesman said.}}
{{“We need to do something.”\nThat’s what Ally Karam, and her cousins and friends agreed to Saturday night as they discussed the deadly explosions last Tuesday in Beirut.\nLess than 24 hours later, Karam and others stood in Easton’s Centre Square as part of ‘Stand up for Lebanon’ to draw attention not only to the blast victims, but to a government that has held the reins during the country’s economic crisis.\nThe group wasn’t planning to collect donations, but ended up accepting more than $400 that will go to the Lebanese Red Cross, Karam said. There are talks to possibly have another demonstration in the future near the Allentown area.\n“We’re just trying to do the best as we can to bring exposure to it,” Karam said Monday. “I just hope people don’t forget about this.”\nThe Facebook page Lehigh Valley for Lebanon is urging locals to donate to three of the biggest non-governmental groups organizing aid for blast victims: the Lebanese Red Cross; the Lebanese Food Bank; and Beit el Baraka.\nPeople who send in proof of a donation will be entered to win prizes from local Lebanese-owned businesses. Easton, with a strong and tight-knit Lebanese community, is home to several such businesses.\nThe blasts in Beirut’s port, due in part to a warehouse storing ammonium nitrate, sent a mushroom cloud in the sky and a shockwave that blasted through buildings miles away.\nThe latest tally is almost 160 people dead and nearly 6,000 injured.\nThe blast heightened anger at perceived corruption in the Lebanese government. Protesters, who have been sounding off against the deteriorating state of Lebanon since last fall, have also said mismanagement within the government contributed to last Tuesday’s explosions.\nThe country’s currency has lost more than 80% of its value amid high unemployment.\nThe explosions were like throwing salt on the wound, Karam said. “After the explosion, people were like, ‘We’ve had enough of this.‘”\nOn Monday, Prime Minister Hassan Diab said he would resign alongside all of his ministers, NBC News reported.\nThe 23-year-old Karam, was born and raised in Easton, while her mother was born in Lebanon, as was her father’s family. They watched as videos of the blast and the destruction that followed were shared on social media pages.\nThe work to help will continue for some time.\n“I want people to step up, to stand up for (the Lebanese people), and show that we’re with them,” she said.\n5 'Stand up for Lebanon' in Easton's Centre Square\nPlease subscribe now and support the local journalism YOU rely on and trust.\nSarah Cassi may be reached at scassi@lehighvalleylive.com.}}
{{LUBBOCK, Texas — On Saturday, Texas Tech University President Dr. Lawrence Schovanec released at letter to the campus community concerning the recent events in Minneapolis, Minnesota.\nA Minneapolis police officer has been charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter in the restraint death of George Floyd.\nFloyd, 46, was suspected of passing a counterfeit $20 bill.\nThe Houston native’s death led to unrest and protests in Minneapolis and other cities across the U.S.\nYou can read Dr. Schovenec’s letter below:\nSaturday, May 30th\nDear Texas Tech University family,\nWe have all been affected and saddened by the tragic and violent events in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The events have brought to mind difficult and complex questions about racism and justice. For some of our fellow students, faculty, and employees, what happened to George Floyd feels like it could happen to them too.\nThat requires all of us to have an extra measure of compassion and understanding as we move forward. Take time to listen to one another, to have the hard conversations and uncomfortable exchanges. It is precisely those dialogues that strengthen the sense of community that is an essential part of our university.\nI want to reaffirm Texas Tech’s unwavering commitment to a welcoming environment for all. Many ethnicities are proudly represented on this campus, and our students are drawn from all 50 states and more than one hundred countries. That is a great strength, but it also means that all of us—the administration, faculty, employees, and students alike—must treat every person in this community with the respect and compassion they deserve. That is our bedrock standard, and no matter our background, our bond as Red Raiders unifies us in a common cause and in our responsibility to one another.\nThis past spring, the University held a series of dialogues about race relations on campus, and that work has never felt more urgent. We intend to continue these efforts in the year ahead and I also want to call attention to the many resources that are here for students, faculty, staff, and administrators in the meantime. We have first-rate health and counseling services to support you and additional educational resources and programs are provided through the Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion, and the Center for Campus Life. We will work with colleagues across the Texas Tech University System, the Athletics Department, the Texas Tech Police Department, as well as with our elected officials and civic leaders here in Lubbock, to ensure your safety and well-being.\nWe are all Red Raiders, and we are all dedicated to a University that celebrates diversity and draws strength from it. Following the closures of this spring, we aim to return to campus as unified as ever. That’s the Texas Tech way. And it reflects our most deeply held values of respect, inclusion, compassion, and mutual concern.\nWe look forward to being able to resume our campus life, and I wish all of you the best in the weeks and months to come.\nSincerely,\nLawrence Schovanec}}
{{MINNEAPOLIS (Reuters) - The trial of former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin for the death of George Floyd was delayed until at least Tuesday morning as the judge contended with a last-minute order by a higher court to reconsider adding an additional murder charge.\nSlideshow ( 7 images )\nThe trial had been scheduled to begin on Monday with the screening of jurors to weigh murder and manslaughter charges in a case seen as a referendum on police violence against Black Americans. Chauvin appeared in court dressed in a navy blue suit and tie, a white shirt and a black face mask, jotting notes in a yellow legal pad on the table before him.\nJudge Peter Cahill of the Hennepin County district court set aside three weeks for jury selection alone, mindful of the difficulties finding impartial Minneapolitans in a case that has convulsed a nation and in which an image of the victim — a selfie of Floyd faintly smiling — has become an international icon of racial justice.\nBut that was delayed at the urging of prosecutors after the Minnesota Court of Appeals told Cahill in an order issued on Friday he must reconsider prosecutors’ request to also reinstate a third charge, third-degree murder, over the defendant’s objections.\nEric Nelson, Chauvin’s lead lawyer, told the court on Monday morning that Chauvin would soon ask the Minnesota Supreme Court to overturn Friday’s order, a process that could take weeks, although he saw no reason for that to delay jury selection.\nBut prosecutors from the Minnesota attorney general’s office urged the court to delay jury selection until the appeal was resolved.\n“We’re not doing this to interfere, to slow this down, but it is a very important matter,” Matthew Frank, an assistant attorney general, told the court. Prosecutors feared picking a jury when the number of charges was still unresolved could make it easier for Chauvin to appeal a verdict later, Frank said.\nCahill declined, repeatedly saying he believed he was entitled to at least begin seating jurors unless a higher court ordered him not to. Prosecutors then said they would ask the Appeals Court to intervene to delay the trial. Cahill suspended jury selection until at least Tuesday.\nChauvin, 44, is charged with second-degree murder, which carries a sentence of up to 40 years in prison, and manslaughter.\nHe was released from jail on a $1 million bond last October and will be tried in a courtroom in the Hennepin County Government Center, a tower in downtown Minneapolis now ringed with fencing and concrete barricades for fear of disruption by protesters.\nHundreds of anti-racism protesters chanted in the streets around the courthouse, blocking traffic. They scattered flowers on the tarmac, along with mirrors smeared with fake blood and daubed with slogans asking passers-by to “reflect” on Floyd’s death. A few volunteers set up tables, handing out donated coffee and donuts. A small number of soldiers called in from the Minnesota National Guard watched from a distance.\nThe courtroom has been adapted to mitigate the spread of the novel coronavirus, and Cahill has sharply limited attendance inside: the families of Chauvin and Floyd have each been allocated a single seat inside the courtroom.\nBridgett Floyd, George Floyd’s sister and founder of the George Floyd Memorial Foundation, went inside for the first day. No one took the seat reserved for Chauvin’s family, according to a pool reporter inside the courtroom.\nMost reporters attending must watch a video stream in a building across the street.\nLawyers for Chauvin, who was fired from the police force the day after Floyd’s death, have argued that he correctly followed his training in helping colleagues arrest Floyd on suspicion of using a counterfeit $20 bill at the Cup Foods grocery store. A handcuffed Floyd can be seen in videos struggling against being placed in a police vehicle complaining he has claustrophobia.\nThe medical examiner ruled that Floyd’s death was a homicide caused partly by police restraint holds. But the autopsy report also noted that Floyd had recently ingested the opioid fentanyl, and Chauvin’s lawyers contend that an overdose was the main cause of death.}}
{{WASHINGTON -- Election officials in key battlegrounds pressed forward Thursday with presidential vote counting as Democrat Joe Biden urged patience and U.S. President Donald Trump pursued legal options, insisting the processing of ballots should be stopped.\nThe president spent Thursday at the White House, working the phones and escalating efforts to sow doubt about the outcome of the race. In a series of tweets, he pushed baseless allegations of electoral misconduct and said the ongoing vote count of ballots submitted before and on Election Day should cease. Trump followed up with an all-caps official campaign statement.\n“IF YOU COUNT THE LEGAL VOTES, I EASILY WIN THE ELECTION! IF YOU COUNT THE ILLEGAL AND LATE VOTES, THEY CAN STEAL THE ELECTION FROM US!” he contended.\nBiden, meanwhile, sought to project the appearance of a president, attending a COVID-19 briefing on Thursday. He offered reassurance that the vote counting process could be trusted.\n“Be patient, folks. Votes are being counted, and we feel good about where we are,” Biden tweeted.\nThe different approaches unfolded as the nation waited to learn which man would collect the 270 electoral votes needed to capture the presidency. Biden's victories in Michigan and Wisconsin put him in a commanding position, but Trump showed no sign of giving up. It could take several more days for the vote count to conclude and a clear winner emerge.\nWith millions of ballots yet to be tabulated, Biden already had received more than 72 million votes, the most in history.\nTrump's campaign engaged in a flurry of legal activity to try to improve the Republican president's chances, requesting a recount in Wisconsin and filing lawsuits in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Georgia. Statewide recounts in Wisconsin have historically changed the vote tally by only a few hundred votes; Biden led by more than 20,000 ballots out of nearly 3.3 million counted.\nJudges in Georgia and Michigan quickly dismissed Trump campaign lawsuits there on Thursday.\nBiden has already won Michigan and Wisconsin. The contests in Georgia and Pennsylvania, along with Nevada and North Carolina, were tight with votes still being tabulated.\nThe Trump campaign said it was confident the president would ultimately pull out a victory in Arizona, where votes were also still being counted, including in Maricopa County, the state's most populous area. The AP has declared Biden the winner in Arizona and said Thursday that it was monitoring the vote count as it proceeded.\n“The Associated Press continues to watch and analyze vote count results from Arizona as they come in,” said Sally Buzbee, AP's executive editor. “We will follow the facts in all cases.”\nTrump's legal challenges faced long odds. He would have to win multiple suits in multiple states in order to stop vote counts, since more than one state was undeclared.\nThere were no obvious grounds for the Justice Department to attempt to intervene to stop a vote count at the state level, unless the federal government could somehow assert a violation of federal voting laws or the Constitution. The department could theoretically file a brief in support of a Trump campaign lawsuit if it believed there were federal concerns at stake, but that intervention would be extraordinary.\nWhile Trump has insisted that ballot counting stop, it was unclear exactly what that included. Counting for votes received by Nov. 3 was continuing, but roughly 20 states allow ballots to be counted if postmarked by Nov. 3 but received in the days after. In some states that is as long as nine days, or even longer. Some of the deadline changes were made as a result of the pandemic, but others are just routine parts of state election laws. Trump has fixated on Pennsylvania, where the Supreme Court refused to stop a court's ruling that allowed for a three-day extension.\nHe also said he was taking fraud claims to court - but most of the lawsuits only demand better access for campaign observers to locations where ballots are being processed and counted. A judge in Georgia dismissed the campaign's suit there less than 12 hours after it was filed. And a Michigan judge dismissed a Trump lawsuit over whether enough GOP challengers had access to handling of absentee ballots\nBiden attorney Bob Bauer said the suits were legally “meritless.” Their only purpose, he said “is to create an opportunity for them to message falsely about what's taking place in the electoral process.”\nIt was unclear when a national winner would be determined after a long, bitter campaign dominated by the coronavirus and its effects on Americans and the national economy. The U.S. on Wednesday set another record for daily confirmed cases as several states posted all-time highs. The pandemic has killed more than 233,000 people in the United States.\nBeyond the presidency, Democrats had hoped the election would allow the party to reclaim the Senate and pad its majority in the House. But while the voting scrambled seats in the House and Senate, it ultimately left Congress much like it began - deeply divided.\n------\nWeissert reported from Wilmington, Delaware. Associated Press writers Jill Colvin and Alexandra Jaffe in Washington contributed to this report.}}
{{The trans-Atlantic relationship has taken a beating over the four years of a Trump presidency. But Janis Emmanouilidis believes there is still hope for the partnership — if the Democratic candidate Joe Biden were to win the US presidential election on Tuesday.\n"No one is naive, thinking that we will return to some form of status quo ante. You will not be able to return time to the good old days. So there will still be problems in the trans-Atlantic relations. But with respect to a Biden presidency, there are hopes that the situation could substantially improve," said Emmanouilidis, the director of the European Policy Centre, a Brussels think tank.\nRead more: US election: Most Europeans would vote for Joe Biden\nEmmanouilidis fears the EU-US relationship will deteriorate even further should Biden (above left, with former European Council President Donald Tusk in 2015) prove unable to oust Donald Trump from the White House.\n"It is likely that he [Trump] will be putting more pressure on Europe in his second term than he has done in the first term. He's also identified Europe as a bigger evil than other global players," he said told DW.\nUS-EU cooperation needed\nReinhard Bütikofer, a member of the European Parliament with the European Green Party and a foreign policy expert, also doesn't think much of Trump's geopolitical statements. "When we hear that President Trump says the European Union is a foe, that doesn't make an argument from Washington stronger in the European public discourse," he said.\nNevertheless, Bütikofer thinks there are still many politicians in Washington and in the US Congress — including Republicans — who are aware that cooperation with Europe is needed to deal with China, Russia and other global players.\nRead more: Russia, Iran meddling with US elections: 'Hacking of our hearts and minds'\nA President Biden might not do everything differently from Trump, but it's reasonable to assume that he would support traditional American allies, listen to them and search for common ground, Bütikofer said.\n"Regardless of who wins in November," he said, "we should invest in cooperating, and we have made some headway on certain counts, for instance, when we look at the WTO [World Trade Organization] and the need to reform the rules that govern the WTO. I think we we've seen that we sing from the same hymnbook."\nA drop in trans-Atlantic trust\nA study conducted this summer by the European Council on Foreign Relations, a foreign policy think tank in Brussels, showed that Europeans have lost trust in the United States, an ally they had long valued and worked with closely. The "domestic chaos" in the US related to the Trump administration's management of the COVID-19 pandemic has contributed significantly to negative perceptions in Europe.\nResearchers at the European Council believe that as president, Biden would approach Europeans anew. They also think the US would rejoin the 2015 Paris climate change agreement and the World Health Organization, as well as strengthen NATO — even if Democrats and Republicans alike would continue to press for European nations to contribute more to the military alliance's budget.\nRead more: How coronavirus has changed the face of US democracy\nMany of Trump's predecessors, including President Barack Obama, had already been pushing for increased military spending. If Trump were to be reelected, NATO would need to prepare for hard times ahead, Trump's ousted national security adviser John Bolton has predicted. According to Bolton, Trump has threatened to pull the US out of NATO, which could mean the end of the alliance.\nBiden also has demands of Europe\nBut NATO also faces criticism within Europe. French President Emmanuel Macron once said the alliance was going through "brain death," and has said more "European sovereignty" is needed.\nMacron is not alone: Other EU government heads also see — albeit to varying degrees — the potential for the EU to play a greater geostrategic role in contrast to the US under Trump.\nThe president of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, wants first and foremost to see a return to a rule-based system of order. "The truth is also that the need to revitalize and reform the multilateral system has never been so urgent," she said in her September speech to the European Parliament. "Our global system has grown into a creeping paralysis. Major powers are either pulling out of institutions or taking them hostage for their own interests."\nMany in Brussels hope that a Biden presidency could help bring about this change, but Emmanouilidis is wary of illusions. He believes the rather gentle treatment Europe has given China so far would also not particularly please a Democratic president.\n"One challenge could, for example, be that the new Biden administration says: 'We're ready to cooperate when it comes to multilateral issues, we're ready to cooperate on climate, we're ready to cooperate on the WTO. But we want you in exchange to be tough, for example, on China,'" he said.\nThe US under Biden could continue to demand that Europe uphold sanctions against Chinese technology company Huawei without exceptions, and that it react to military provocations in the South China Sea.\nEU united by trade issues\nRegardless of who wins the US election on Tuesday, European nations will immediately want to discuss trade relations. Trump's threat to raise massive tariffs on cars and other EU imported goods continues to hang heavy in the air; a sort of truce negotiated in July 2018 by then-European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker failed to solve the underlying conflict.\nAt the time, Trump surprisingly called the EU the biggest trade partner of the US. Yet this topic has been absent from both the Trump and Biden campaigns.\nThe EU's new trade commissioner, Valdis Dombrovskis, believes differences must be set aside. "This is a time for keeping our friends close and remembering the alliances that really count. There are still some ongoing disputes between the EU and US, and in my view, we are very well advised to fix these quickly," he said in a September speech at a business event.\nObservers believe most European government leaders would get along better with Biden, since he is more liberal-leaning and less rhetorically combative. The relationship between Trump and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, in particular, has been marked by a total absence of chemistry, Emmanouilidis said. Poland and other Eastern European nations, especially those with populist leaders, have enjoyed better relations with the president.\nRead more: Poland's ex-foreign minister: Trump was 'right on some issues'\nNevertheless, Emmanouilidis believes the EU will remain united in defending its interests against the US, regardless of who sits in the Oval Office. "When it comes to the actual key issues, when it becomes really difficult, we've seen that the EU 27 [member states] up to now has been united, even though some member states might have, or tried to have, a more preferential relationship with the Trump administration," he said.\nThis article has been adapted from the German original.}}
{{President Donald Trump speaks with reporters after participating in a video teleconference call with members of the military on Thanksgiving, Thursday, Nov. 26, 2020, at the White House in Washington. (AP Photo/Patrick Semansky)\nWASHINGTON, D.C. (KXAN) — Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp received a phone call from Pres. Donald Trump Saturday morning — during which Trump reportedly urged Kemp to convince the Georgia legislature to overturn President-elect Joe Biden’s election win in the state.\nAccording to the Washington Post, Trump also asked the Republican Kemp to order absentee ballot signatures be audited.\nTrump is scheduled to host a rally in Georgia for the state’s Republican senators, Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue.\nA source close to the conversation between Trump and Kemp told WaPo that the president tried to get Kemp to call a special legislative session in order to appoint electors who would vote for him.\nKemp declined, the source told Washington Post.\nThe move comes on the heels of weeks of Trump campaign attempts to block state certification and/or fully overturn election results based on still unproven claims of voter fraud. This has taken the shape of several lawsuits, the overwhelming majority of which have been thrown out of court due to lack of credible evidence.\nOn Dec. 1, U.S. Attorney General William Barr broke rank with Trump, announcing that the U.S. Justice Department uncovered no evidence of widespread voter fraud that would change the election’s outcome.\nEarlier this week, Trump called Kemp “hapless” for his refusal to “overrule” Georgia Sec. of State Brad Raffensperger’s certification of Biden’s win. Trump also claimed the state was “scammed” because Kemp did not intervene and told Fox News he was “ashamed” he endorsed him in 2018.\nOn Saturday morning, Trump tweeted ahead of his Georgia appearance: “I will easily & quickly win Georgia if Governor @BrianKempGA or the Secretary of State permit a simple signature verification. Has not been done and will show large scale discrepancies. Why are these two “Republicans” saying no? If we win Georgia, everything else falls in place!”\nTrump’s advancement of conspiracy theories and refusal to concede come as Biden officially secured enough votes to become president on Friday. As of Saturday, Biden has 279 electoral votes to Trump’s 232.\nOnce all states have officially certified, Biden will have 306. Additionally, Biden currently leads Trump by nearly 8 million popular votes.\nThe Electoral College will meet Dec. 14 to formally vote and results will be received by Congress on Jan. 6.\nLATEST HEADLINES:}}
{{#HAPPENINGNOW: Dozens of people are holding a protest at the state Captiol in Little Rock in honor of #GeorgeFloyd. #ARnews pic.twitter.com/eiJrRPCi7t — Alexis Wainwright (@AWainwrightTV) May 30, 2020\nA crowd gathered at the Arkansas Capitol today to mark the killing of George Floyd by Minneapolis police. KARK’s Alexis Wainwright has video.}}
{{Lebanon's Prime Minister Hassan Diab speaks at the government palace in Beirut, Lebanon, August 10, 2020, in this still picture taken from a video. Tele Liban/Handout via REUTERS THIS IMAGE HAS BEEN SUPPLIED BY A THIRD PARTY. NO RESALES. NO ARCHIVES.\nBEIRUT (Reuters) - Lebanon’s Prime Minister Hassan Diab announced on Monday the resignation of his government after a powerful Beirut port explosion sparked public uproar against the country’s leaders.\nDiab, in a televised speech, said the detonation of highly-explosive material warehoused at the port in the capital for the last seven years was “the result of endemic corruption”.\n“Today we follow the will of the people in their demand to hold accountable those responsible for the disaster that has been in hiding for seven years, and their desire for real change,” he said. “In the face of this reality ... I am announcing today the resignation of this government.”\nThe cabinet had already been under pressure to step down over last week’s explosion that killed 163 people, wounded some 6,000 and left around 300,000 without habitable housing. Several ministers had already resigned over the weekend.}}
{{Politics\nDefense Secretary Mark Esper said Wednesday that “most believe” that the explosion in Beirut “was an accident, as reported,” despite President Donald Trump’s claim a day prior that it was an attack.\nThe US is “still getting information on what happened” in regard to the blast in the Lebanese capital, Esper said. US defense officials also told CNN there was no indication the explosion was an attack, despite Trump’s assertion Tuesday.\nEsper’s remarks came as part of a discussion at the annual Aspen Security Forum, where he said he spoke about the blast with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo Wednesday morning.\n“We’re reaching out to the Lebanese government, have reached out. We’re positioning ourselves to provide them whatever assistance we can, humanitarian aid, medical supplies, you name it, to assist the people of Lebanon,” said Esper.\nOn Wednesday, Pompeo spoke with Lebanese Prime Minister Hassan Diab, expressing his condolences and pledging assistance in the wake of the explosion that rocked Beirut Tuesday.\n“The secretary reaffirmed our steadfast commitment to assist the Lebanese people as they cope with the aftermath of this terrifying event,” a readout from State Department Principal Deputy Spokesperson Cale Brown said. “Secretary Pompeo further stressed our solidarity with and support for the Lebanese people as they strive for the dignity, prosperity, and security they deserve.”\nAlthough the cause of the blast is unclear, Diab said Wednesday that about 2,750 metric tons of ammonium nitrate, a highly explosive material, had been stored at a port warehouse for the past six years “without preventive measures.”\nThe Prime Minister has launched an investigation into the deadly explosion which has claimed at least 135 lives, including one US citizen, and injured thousands.\n“I will not rest until we find those responsible for what happened, hold them accountable, and impose maximum punishment,” Diab said in a statement, added it was “unacceptable” that so much ammonium nitrate had been stored “while endangering the safety of citizens.”\nTrump on Tuesday evening referred to the incident as a “terrible attack.”\n“It would seem like it based on the explosion,” Trump said. “I’ve met with some of our great generals and they just seem to feel that it was not a — some kind of manufacturing explosion type of event. This was a — seems to be according to them, they would know better than I would, but they seem to think it was an attack. It was a bomb of some kind.”\nHowever, three US defense officials told CNN Tuesday there was no indication that the explosion was an attack.}}
{{Donald Trump and Joe Biden from Wednesday morning addresses to supporters (Getty)\n(NEWS10) — Jen O’Malley Dillon and Bob Bauer, respectively the campaign manager and campaign advisor for Joe Biden, provided their interpretation of the current numbers from the general election.\nTheir streamed election update was streamed on Facebook.\nLATEST STORIES:}}
{{BEIRUT (REUTERS) - Radiant in a long white gown and veil, 29-year-old Lebanese bride Israa Seblani stands smiling and posing for her wedding video. The scene is shattered by a deafening roar, and a powerful shockwave nearly blows her off her feet.\nThe dramatic footage captured the moment when a massive explosion rocked the Lebanese capital on Tuesday (Aug 4), killing 135 people and injuring more than 5,000.\nSeblani, a doctor working in the United States, helped to check on the injured nearby, before fleeing central Beirut's Saifi square to safety.\nA day later, she and her husband Ahmad Subeih, 34, a businessman in Beirut, were struggling to process what happened.\n"I have been preparing for my big day for two weeks and I was so happy like all other girls, 'I am getting married'. My parents are going to be happy seeing me in a white dress, I will be looking like a princess," she told Reuters.\n"What happened during the explosion here - there is no word to explain... I was shocked, I was wondering what happened, am I going to die? How am I going to die?"\nBehind her, piles of smashed glass from the blown-out windows of the hotel where she was due to stay littered the ground, along with crushed remnants of flower arrangements that had adorned banquet tables.\nSeblani had arrived in Beirut three weeks earlier to prepare for her wedding.\nSubeih recalled the aftermath of the blast, which officials have blamed on a huge stockpile of highly explosive material stored for years in unsafe conditions at the port.\n"We started to walk around and it was extremely sad, it was not describable the devastation and the sound of the explosion," he said.\n"We are still in shock... I have never heard anything similar to the sound of this explosion."\n"I feel so sad about what happened to other people, about what happened to Lebanon," added Seblani.\n"When I woke up and saw the damage that happened to Beirut, the one thing I said was thank God we are still alive."\nRelated Story Lebanon officials ignored warnings about chemical tied to blast; emergency declared in Beirut\nAfter the blast, she and her husband tried to compose themselves and carry on with their celebrations.\n"My husband told me to continue, we can't stop. I was like okay, why not, we continue. I was not living the moment actually, I was like walking, my face was smiling, my lips were smiling, that's it, not more. Then we went to have a dinner."\nSubeih recalls entering the damaged hotel on Wednesday to retrieve their belongings and passports.\n"The scene in the room was unbelievable," he said.\nHe is waiting for a United States visa so he can join his wife there. Seblani loves Lebanon, but feels that after Tuesday's blast, living there is not an option.\nShe is still trying to find joy in a wedding she spent so long preparing.\n"There is a lot of damage, many people were killed and wounded. But also if I want to look at us, myself, my husband, the photographer - how we escaped unharmed, I thank God for protecting us.\n"This alone makes me feel optimistic and to keep the joy of the occasion that I came here to celebrate."}}
{{A massive mushroom cloud explosion has rocked Lebanon's capital city Beirut.\nAt least 50 people have been killed by the blast and thousands were injured.\nThe blast tore down buildings, ripped balconies from apartments and sent a huge plume of smoke into the sky.\nShocked Beirut City Governor Marwan Aboud said his city was in the midst of a "national disaster akin to Hiroshima'' and the number of fatalities was expected to skyrocket.\nLebanese media carried images of people trapped under rubble, some bloodied, after the explosion.\n"All the buildings around here have collapsed. I'm walking through glass and debris everywhere, in the dark," one witness told AFP.\nIt is not yet clear what caused the explosion, but videos show smoke rising from a fire before the blast. There were also reports of a second explosion.\nHealth Minister Hamad Hassan said the blasts had killed at least 50 people and left 2500 injured by the blast on Tuesday, according to "preliminary estimates".\nStunning video shows explosions just minutes ago at Beirut port pic.twitter.com/ZjltF0VcTr — Borzou Daragahi 🖊🗒 (@borzou) August 4, 2020\nThe number is likely to rise due to the number of seriously injured people, he said, with medical workers among the dead.\n"It is a disaster in every sense of the word," he said in an interview with several television channels while visiting a hospital.\nMany hospitals in the Beirut are now overwhelmed, a BBC reporter at one of them said patients were being treated in the hallways and there were blood stains on the walls.\nTwo hospitals have been evacuated because of the severe damage - one of which is a hospital that was treating coronavirus patients - and many in the city have been experiencing power outages.\nThe loud blast in Beirut's port area was felt across large parts of the city and some districts lost electricity.\nPreliminary reports by local Lebanese media said the blast may have been the result of an incident at Beirut's port.\n"Buildings are shaking," tweeted one resident, while another wrote, "an enormous, deafening explosion just engulfed Beirut. Heard it from miles away".\nOnline footage from a Lebanese newspaper office showed blown out windows, scattered furniture and demolished interior panelling.\nThe blast comes at a difficult period for Lebanon, which was already suffering under a number of major crises.\nResidents were suffering under massive inflation and struggled to buy basic goods in some areas - and that was before the pandemic hit.\nTensions are also high ahead of Friday's verdict in a trial over the killing of ex-Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in 2005.\nOriginally published as Enormous explosion in Lebanon}}
{{Following a months-long battle over the next COVID-19 relief package, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell are finally coming to an agreement, but to the disappointment of some Americans who say it’s simply not enough. The $908 billion bipartisan proposal was presented by lawmakers in the House and Senate on Tuesday and includes an additional $300 a week in unemployment payments and $288 billion in Paycheck Protection Program small business loans. It will also include funding for the distribution of a COVID-19 vaccine, as well as for education and rental assistance.\nBut the latest proposal is significantly smaller than the $2.2 trillion bill Democrats originally pushed earlier this year, which Pelosi has been relentlessly pushing forward within congress. That’s because it will not include the reinstatement of an additional $600 a week in unemployment benefits or a second round of stimulus payments that would go directly to Americans who desperately need the financial assistance as we approach 10 months of the pandemic. The earlier proposal has since been trimmed down following President-elect Joe Biden’s election win and the possibility of a vaccine, Pelosi said Thursday.\nWhen asked about her decision to compromise with McConnell on the bill during a press conference on Capitol Hill, Pelosi called Biden’s win and the vaccine a “game-changer.” She added that the smaller relief package is “OK now because we have a new president, a president who recognizes we need to depend on science.” Pelosi further stated that while the current bill isn’t “everything we want,” Democrats could push a more expansive relief package following Biden’s inauguration in January.\nStill, the House Speaker is receiving criticism from both the left and the right, as working people across the country rely on financial assistance from the federal government in the face of job loss, and housing and food insecurity.\nConservatives condemned Pelosi for stalling the relief package over the election, claiming that “Democrats see this entire crisis as leverage to play politics,” or that she “plunged millions into poverty in order to win an election.” Of course, conservatives are not making these arguments in good faith. This line of thinking fails to account for the fact that McConnell’s earlier $500 billion proposed stimulus package would also fall short of providing sufficient relief to working families.\nStory continues\nOn the other hand, people across the country have been in dire need of further financial assistance for months since the additional unemployment benefits included in the original $2.2 trillion CARES Act expired at the end of July. Those on the left of the political spectrum — including progressive Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Rashida Tlaib — say the current stimulus package under consideration still doesn’t go far enough. “COVID relief needs to directly help everyday people,” Ocasio-Cortez wrote on Twitter. “People need stimulus checks” and universal income. The congresswoman added in another tweet, “Maybe if everyone in the US incorporated as an LLC, Mitch McConnell would actually do something for them.”\nWhen Congress signed off on a one-time $1,200 check for all Americans at the beginning of the pandemic, it also provided billions of dollars in tax breaks to the wealthy. As the American Prospect noted at the time, the CARES Act “treat­ed the wealthy and con­nect­ed to a per­ma­nent change in for­tune, and pro­vid­ed every­one else with a tem­po­rary benefit.” It should come as no surprise that while millions of people faced unemployment as a result of the pandemic, billionaires gained almost $1 trillion in wealth.\nAs Congress’s holiday break approaches, Americans face further financial uncertainty, making an expansive relief package all the more urgent. Working people can’t wait for Biden’s inauguration to receive the assistance they deserve, and the GOP is running out the clock.\nLike what you see? How about some more R29 goodness, right here?\nWhite House To Host Maskless Holiday Parties\nThe Stimulus Bill Election Day Deadline Is Tuesday\nMost At Risk Jobs In 2021 Due To Coronavirus}}
{{Lebanon's Prime Minister Hassan Diab said that those responsible for an explosion at a "dangerous" warehouse in Beirut port area that rocked the capital would pay the price.\n"I promise you that this catastrophe will not pass without accountability. ... Those responsible will pay the price," he said in a televised speech. "Facts about this dangerous warehouse that has been there since 2014 will be announced and I will not preempt the investigations".}}
{{Americans have been closely following along with all of the events that have unfolded following George Floyd's murder. In the past several days, riots and protests have sparked up across many cities in the country with those calling for justice in Floyd's case (Floyd died on Monday after officer Derek Chauvin knelt on his neck for almost nine minutes. Chauvin has since been arrested and charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter). President Donald Trump has also spoken out regarding this issue, with his latest statement striking a remarkably different tone than the one that his wife, First Lady Melania Trump, made.\nThis past week, Trump has spoken out regarding Floyd's death on a few occasions. On Wednesday, he took to Twitter to relate that he had been in contact with the FBI and the Department of Justice about the investigation into Floyd's passing. He ended his statement by writing that "Justice will be served!" On Friday, according to CNN, he shared that he had been in contact with Floyd's family and told reporters, "I want to express our nation's deepest condolences and most heartfelt sympathies to the family of George Floyd. I spoke to members of the family -- terrific people." In addition to speaking out about Floyd, he has also commented on the rioting that has taken place across the United States, which comes as many have protested Floyd's murder. As many have acknowledged, his incendiary statements about the riots, in which he calls for Americans to be shot if they do loot businesses, have given many serious pause.\nTrump expressed on Twitter that he would condone violence against those who are looting amidst the protests over Floyd's death. He wrote, "These THUGS are dishonoring the memory of George Floyd, and I won't let that happen. Any difficulty and we will assume control but, when the looting starts, the shooting starts." As previously mentioned, this dangerous tweet is incredibly different than the message that Melania shared in light of these protests. According to CNN, in direct contradiction to her husband's tweet, the First Lady called for peace in this situation.\n"Our country allows for peaceful protests, but there is no reason for violence," she wrote on Twitter. Her message then went on to acknowledge that Americans are hurting amidst both the coronavirus crisis and this current fight for justice in Floyd's case. "I've seen our citizens unify & take care of one another through COVID19 & we can't stop now. My deepest condolences to the family of George Floyd. As a nation, let's focus on peace, prayers & healing."}}
{{This past week, Maj.-Gen. Ashraf Rifi, a former justice minister and retired commander of the Lebanese Internal Security Forces, testified before an investigative committee that it was Iran who had shipped into Beirut the massive amounts of ammonium nitrate, causing the explosion at the Lebanese Port this past summer.\nAs many suspected from the onset, the general is alleging that the Iranian proxy terrorist group Hezbollah played a central role in this devastating explosion.\nWhile Hezbollah, for its part, is undertaking every measure it can to thwart the investigation, including bringing lawsuits and threats against those in Beirut who accuse the Shi’ite organization of any involvement, Maj.-Gen. Rifi is insisting his full testimony be made public.\nThe Lebanese people, the foreign citizens killed in the blast, the United Nations, the International Criminal Court and every shipping company that utilizes the Port of Beruit deserve to finally learn the truth.\nThe backstory is this: On Aug. 4, 2020, Lebanon was rocked when a warehouse, storing large amounts of the chemical ammonium nitrate, exploded at Beirut's port.\nThat blast was the cause of horrific amounts of destruction, killing scores of people and destroying buildings in a large radius.\nThis is a horrible tragedy, and it left more than 150 Lebanese dead, while thousands more were wounded. The explosion and resultant devastation was the result of massive and unauthorized stockpiling of dangerous explosives at what is a civilian harbor.\nThe Beirut Port explosion so angered the Lebanese population that they immediately launched days of violent protests in the streets, demanding an international investigation.\nMany pointed a finger at Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah as a likely suspect.\nAfterall, Hezbollah has repeatedly been tied to bombings and attempted bombings globally --- using the exact same explosive chemicals:\nThe July 18, 1994 bombing of the AMIA Jewish Center killing 85 and wounded more than 300 was carried out by Hezbollah.\nThe terror group packed a van with 600 pounds of ammonium nitrate fertilizer and fuel; drove it to the Jewish Center were it was detonated a little before 10 am on that day.\nIn the 2012 in Burgas, Bulgaria the bombing of Israeli tourists on a bus was carried out by Hezbollah delpoying 40 boxes containing 160 grams of ammonium nitrate each.\nLaw enforcement pointed the finger at the Lebanese terrorist group as the culprits.\nFive Israeli tourists and their Bulgarian bus driver perished in the attack.\nIn 2013-2014, Iran supplied Lebanon’s Hezbollah terror group with 670 tons of ammonium nitrate according to the German daily Die Welt. German officials claimed that Hezbollah had secretly stored large quantities of the chemical in civilian towns in Southern Germany and then shipped the explosives throughout Europe for future terror attacks.\nIn 2015, authorities seized over three-metric-tons of ammonium nitrate stored in London at a Hezbollah warehouse and the same year over eight tons that were guarded by a Hezbollah operative in Cyprus.\nHezbollah has been tied to numerous other warehouses of ammonium nitrate illegally stockpiled globally --- including in Kuwait and Thailand.\nAccording to a statement by Maj.-Gen. Rifi: "Large quantities of ammonium nitrate were designated for the Syrian regime, while other large shipments were sent by Hezbollah to its affiliated terrorist groups in Cyprus, Kuwait, Germany and other foreign countries.\nThe security forces know that Hezbollah controls the Beirut port for smuggling and exporting explosives, and that's why the organization established a private security and customs area in the port."\nIn the aftermath of the August explosion as reports of Hezbollah’s involvement began to spread, a undocumented story circulated in the media globally that the chemicals were brought to Lebanon in September 2013 on a Moldovan-flagged cargo ship MV Rhosus from Mozambique.\nSupposedly, the ship developed engine trouble and was forced, along with its dangerous cargo, to dock in the Beirut Port.\nThe MV Rhosus was deemed unseaworthy and the ship was prohibited from sailing.\nThe company that purported to own the ship eventually went bankrupt and Lebanese officials seized the boat for unpaid and overdue port costs.\nThe chemicals were reportedly off-loaded and stored in February of 2014 at Warehouse 12.\nThey remained there until this summer’s explosion.\nIn the wake of the explosion the government of Lebanon fell and an investigative committee was appointed to discover the truth behind the blast.\nLebanese civilians are still publicly demanding the truth be revealed.\nThe testimony of Maj.-Gen Rifi, given last week, calls the story of the abandoned ship, the MV Rhosus, a lie and points an accusing finger at the Iranian proxy group.\nHezbollah’s long history of terrorism utilizing ammonium nitrate and the fact it controls large sections of the Beirut's port (including many warehouses) supports the allegations against the Iranian proxy group.\nThe investigative committee in Lebanon, a country where the assassination of the late president Rafic Hariri in 2005, in yet another Hezbollah terrorist attack, has never been properly investigated and the conclusions made public, cannot continue to operate behind closed doors and the withhold testimon from public disclosure.\nThe truth behind the Beirut port explosion which leveled whole sections of the city cannot be covered up and buried like the Hariri inquest, and so remains to this day.\nMaj.-Gen. Rifi and other credible witnesses who have crucial information and evidence must be allowed to present their knowledge to the media --- and the poeple of Lebanon.\nNitsana Darshan-Leitner is an attorney and the president of the Shurat HaDin Law Center in Tel Aviv.}}
{{White teens are now posting pictures of themselves kneeling on each other’s necks, as part of what is called a ‘George Floyd challenge’ in the same manner as his murder on video.\nBy Raka Mukherjee, News18 BUZZ\n“Hell is other people,” wrote Jean-Paul Sartre in his play called Huis Clos, or No Exit, and it perhaps, if taken literally, rings true in 2020, where we’ve really reached the bottom rung of humanity.\nLast week, the United States erupted in protests over the killing of George Floyd, an African-American who was killed by cops in Minneapolis, Minnesota. As videos of the killing went viral, the image of a white cop, pinning Floyd’s neck to the ground with his knee till the victim choked went viral.\nWhile the outrageous and heartbreaking video led to anger and disappointment and culminated in protests that have continued to rage, some racist bigots seem to have found a disgusting ploy to hijack the video.\nIn videos and images that are now going viral, white teens pretending to choke another by pinning them to the ground and kneeing them on the neck. The trend is being called the ‘George Floyd challenge’.\nYes. They’re literally recreating someone’s actual, filmed murder, as part of a ‘challenge.’\nRacists are now doing the George Floyd “challenge.” This is what we’re up against, folks. It’s a privilege to make sarcasm about racism instead of experiencing it your whole life pic.twitter.com/LmS1mnqCcj — Mohamad Safa (@mhdksafa) June 4, 2020\nThis is sickening and deeply disturbing that there is a George Floyd challenge going around in the US. #blacklivesmatter pic.twitter.com/N8gq6MKHpx — Ahmer Khan (@ahmermkhan) June 4, 2020\nin the past 24 hours, juniata county has seen two young white girls participate in the ‘george floyd challenge’ on tiktok, and a homophobic boy post on instagram that pride month should be referred to as “f*** going to hell month”. and you wonder why i hate it here. pic.twitter.com/XDPGbAD86e — peyt || bIm ✊🏻✊🏼✊🏽✊🏾✊🏿 (@peytharr) June 4, 2020\nI don’t truck with “Cancel Culture” but someone needs to cancel these little bastards doing a “George Floyd Challenge” … This is the root of the sickness. These boys require an education; once they’re identified, perhaps they get one. Do your thing Twitter. pic.twitter.com/5jBkcZSJ7D — Bravo Golf Lima (@Benjamin_G_Lund) June 3, 2020\nTiktok should permanently suspend every account doing the George Floyd challenge. That is pure hate, so VILE. — Dana (@5drinkMax) June 3, 2020\nWhile most of the videos were taken down, from the screenshots alone it appears that the videos were majorly on two platforms – Snapchat and TikTok.\nThree of young boys seen posing in one of the pictures have been arrested for re-creating the hate crime.\nMost of the other teens, however, remain unidentified yet.\nThis article originally appeared in News18 BUZZ.}}
{{BEIRUT (AP) — Massive explosions rocked downtown Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the port, damaging buildings and blowing out windows and doors as a giant mushroom cloud rose above the capital. Witnesses saw many people injured by flying glass and debris.\nAn Associated Press photographer near the port saw people lying injured on the ground, and hospitals called for blood donations, but exact casualties were not immediately known.\nMiles from the scene of the blast, balconies were knocked down, ceiling collapsed and windows were shattered.\nThe cause of the blast was not immediately clear. It came at a time when Lebanon is passing through its worst economic and financial crisis in decades.\nIt also comes amid rising tensions between Israel and the militant Hezbollah group along Lebanon's southern border.\nOnline video showed a column of smoke rising from the port area from what appeared to be an initial explosion, followed by a massive blast that sent up a mushroom cloud and a shock wave racing over the city.\nSome local TV stations reported the blast was at Beirut's port inside an area where fireworks were stored.}}
{{Adventist Development and Relief Agency Supplying Humanitarian Aid at Ground Zero\nSILVER SPRING, MD (August 6, 2020) – Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA) response teams in Lebanon are providing essential emergency supplies to recovery workers and survivors of the massive explosion in Beirut’s port. The huge blast that struck the Lebanese capital city on August 4, killed at least 135 people, wounded more than 5,000 people, and left more than 300,000 people homeless.\n“Responders say they have never seen anything like this before. The images look like a war zone. The first dispatched ambulance teams were killed by the explosion. We are delivering water and essential equipment to firefighters and civil defense workers,” says Gunther Wallauer, ADRA regional director for the Middle East and North Africa. “We are providing bedding supplies, so they have a place to rest; they need cots, tents, generators for lights since electricity is out in most of the city. We know there’s devastation in several neighborhoods close to the epicenter. Our teams on the ground are quickly assessing the situation to provide immediate aid to children and families.”\nADRA teams will tour at least five neighborhoods including schools surrounding the blast zone to begin to deploy the humanitarian support including water and food to the victims.\nAuthorities believe the deadly blast could have been caused by tons of highly explosive material stored in a warehouse at the main port. The disaster is overwhelming the country already dealing with an economic crisis and the coronavirus pandemic.\n“Our prayers are with the Lebanese nation, especially the children and families affected by this catastrophe and all who lost loved ones and are injured. We have been on the ground since the coronavirus outbreak helping the Lebanese community cope with the health and economic challenges of the pandemic and are ready to provide additional support during this added crisis,” says ADRA’s President Michael Kruger. “We are committed to increasing our emergency response activities to provide life-saving essentials to those in need of assistance.”\nADRA is working with church volunteers, local authorities, and partners in Beirut to coordinate the relief and recovery operations. To assist with ADRA’s emergency response in Lebanon, please visit ADRA.org/Disasters. For interviews with ADRA representatives contact press@adra.org.\nFor journalist inquiries, please email press@adra.org.\nAbout ADRA\nThe Adventist Development and Relief Agency is the international humanitarian arm of the Seventh-day Adventist Church serving in 118 countries. Its work empowers communities and changes lives around the globe by providing sustainable community development and disaster relief. ADRA’s purpose is to serve humanity so all may live as God intended. For more information, visit ADRA.org.}}
{{A CNN TV reporter covering rioting in Minneapolis following the death of a black man at the hands of police officers was arrested live on the air.\nCorrespondent Omar Jimenez, who is also black, could be heard talking to Minnesota state police officers, telling them they were live on TV and that he was happy for his crew to be moved, before his sudden arrest.\n“Just put us back where you want us, we were getting out of your way… wherever you want us we will go,” he can be heard telling police, who were dressed in riot gear after dispersing protesters.\nAs the camera keeps rolling he is then seen being handcuffed by a police officer and led away without explanation. His crew, including two production staff and security, is then also arrested.\nMinnesota police arrest CNN reporter and camera crew as they report from protests in Minneapolis https://t.co/oZdqBti776 pic.twitter.com/3QbeTjD5ed — CNN (@CNN) May 29, 2020\nJimenez was covering unrest in Minneapolis after a police officer was filmed kneeling on the neck of George Floyd, 46, who later died.\nThe incident has reignited racial tensions in the US. A police station was set on fire in the third night of rioting in the city.\n“I have never seen anything like this,” a CNN presenter can be heard saying while watching the arrest of his colleague live on air.\nCNN immediately called for the authorities to release the journalists, saying they had been arrested “for doing their jobs” in a “clear violation” of their First Amendment rights.\nJimenez was released from custody an hour later and was back on the air. He said his crew had tried to get out of the way of advancing officers.\n“There was no animosity, they weren’t violent with me,” he said of his treatment at the hands of police. “I’m just following orders,” one told him.\nIn a statement released on Twitter, Minnesota State Patrol said: “In the course of clearing the streets and restoring order at Lake Street and Snelling Avenue, four people were arrested by State Patrol troopers, including three members of a CNN crew.\n“The three were released once they were confirmed to be members of the media.”\nBut CNN has said this account is “not accurate”. “Our CNN crew identified themselves, on live television, immediately as journalists,” the network said. It also thanked Minnesota Governor Tim Walz for aiding in the release of its reporters.\nPicture: CNN}}
{{A MASSIVE explosion has killed at least 50 people and left 3,000 injured after the blast devastated parts of Lebanon's capital Beirut.\nPictures show buildings destroyed, people walking wounded, and a sea of wreckage after the blast that could be heard some 125 miles away in Cyprus.\nLebanon's state news agency NNA and two security sources said the blast had occurred in the port area where there are warehouses housing explosives, reports Reuters.\nNearby buildings around the port have been leveled, windows and doors have been blown out, and fires burn as smoke plumes billow across Beirut.\nThe Government Palace - the home of Lebanon's PM Hassan Diab - was damaged in the blast, and his wife and daughter were injured in the explosion.\nMr Diab said: "What happened is a major national catastrophe and the scenes we see tell about the scale of the disaster that struck Lebanon and Beirut."\nFollow for the latest news and updates on Beirut}}
{{"You can’t tell me when that officer had his knee on my brother’s neck, taking his life away, with his hand in his pocket, that that smirk on his face didn’t say, ‘I’m protected,’” Jackson said. “I’m gonna use everything I have to get a conviction, to get all these [expletive] in jail, excuse my French, I’m angry, but I’m a proud Black man.”}}
{{MINNEAPOLIS (WCCO) — A crowd marched in Minneapolis Monday, calling for the jury to convict Derek Chauvin for the killing of George Floyd.\nOthers, like Minneapolis resident Teon Britton, headed to George Floyd Square to reflect.\n“I always feel empowered [at George Floyd Square], always emotional,” Britton said. “I’m already feeling it right now, just the pain, the happiness, all these feelings.”\nBritton has visited George Floyd Square many times, while it was Bishop Thomas Masters’ first time.\n“I wanted to be a witness,” Masters said. “I wanted to feel what it’s like to be in the neighborhood, to talk to the locals.”\nMasters is from West Palm Beach, Florida. He arrived Monday expecting, or at least hoping, to see a verdict come this week.\n“I’m hoping that we don’t have a hung jury, because all it takes is one person to hang this up, and then we go back again,” Masters said.\nThe bishop says he feels confident in the prosecution’s case, but he — along with the hundreds of protesters who were downtown — isn’t assuming anything. Rev. Jesse Jackson was also there to share his thoughts on a verdict.\n“Even if we win, it’s a relief, not victory,” Jackson said. “They’re still killing our people.”\nJackson also urged for peace.\n“We’re nonviolent not because we’re scared, but because we’re wise,” he said.\nBritton understands businesses being concerned about an acquittal, but he also believes Chauvin deserves to be guilty.\n“I just know people are already boarding up and doing this and that, when there shouldn’t be like any cause to like feel anxious about the looting,” Britton said.\nMasters says he’s praying for a swift and just verdict. He added he didn’t feel the defense made a strong closing argument.}}
{{You asked. We listened. Your daily crossword, Sudoku and dozens of other puzzles are now available online. Play them or print them here.\nPlay now}}
{{The nation is convulsing following the death of George Floyd, who was killed while in custody of the Minneapolis police on Monday. Former police officer Derek Chauvin—shown in a now-viral video violently digging his knee into the unarmed black man’s neck and back—was arrested on Friday and charged with murder and manslaughter in the death of Floyd. After a night of protests, which continue to rage in cities across the country, President Donald Trump, rather than attempting to bring the nation together, drew battle lines and hinted at future violence by praising the Secret Service early Saturday morning for “quickly [coming] down on [protesters], hard - didn’t know what hit them” and being “the most vicious dogs, and most ominous weapons, I have ever seen.” It was ugly, scary language, hard to imagine coming from an American president.\nTrump first responded to the situation early Friday morning in a tweet that, as my colleague Eric Lutz wrote, appeared to directly threaten protesters, who the president referred to as “thugs.” In a post that Twitter has since hidden and labeled as in violation of the platform’s rules about glorifying violence, Trump wrote that he would mobilize the military to “assume control” and that “when the looting starts, the shooting starts,” a phrase that NBC News reports to be rife with racist implications, previously used by former Miami police chief Walter Headley in 1967 to address his department’s “crackdown on … slum hoodlums” and soon after by presidential candidate and segregationist George Wallace. Trump attempted to walk back his post-midnight looting comments on Friday afternoon, flailing to defend himself on Twitter.\nAfter blaming people for misinterpreting what was “spoken as a fact, not as a statement,” Trump then changed the subject by getting tough with China during remarks in the White House Rose Garden on Friday, an event that ABC News notes did not mention Floyd’s death or the protests that have erupted in response to it. Trump instead announced sanctions on China over its handling of Hong Kong as well the termination of the United States’ relationship with the World Health Organization. Following his remarks, ABC reports, the president “walked away as reporters shouted questions about Floyd and Minnesota,” which the New York Times’ Maggie Haberman condemned. “Tip: it isn’t a press conference when it’s a statement delivered without taking questions,” she wrote on Twitter.\nMeanwhile, demonstrators rioted in cities across the country on Friday as protests turned violent. In Detroit, a man was shot dead; upwards of 200 arrests were made in New York City, according to WABC, as protesters stormed Brooklyn’s 88 Precinct and set fire to an NYPD vehicle; Atlanta protests, per the Times, prompted the activation of as many as 500 National Guard troops and Georgia’s Fulton County to declare a state of emergency. And the unrest in Minneapolis, the Associated Press reports, has prompted the Pentagon to take “the rare step of ordering the Army to put several active-duty U.S. military police units on the ready to deploy to Minneapolis.”\nAfter botching the nation’s handling of the coronavirus crisis, Trump is now botching this, dividing America and drawing lines in a failure of presidential leadership that is shocking, even for him. In contrast, former President Barack Obama issued a written statement on the death of George Floyd and the “tragically, painfully, maddeningly ‘normal’” reality of such bigotry, a sentiment that presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden echoed while addressing a reeling nation on Friday, stating that “with our complacency, our silence, we are complicit in perpetuating these cycles of violence.” In a news conference on Saturday, Minnesota Governor Tim Walz showed great leadership, calling George Floyd’s death and the turmoil that has followed it to be “one of our darkest chapters.” Walz, who the Times notes deployed the National Guard on Thursday in an attempt to ease the chaos, said on Friday that “the ashes are symbolic of decades and generations of pain, of anguish, unheard.” And Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms gave a sensational speech on Friday night, during which she pleaded protesters go home and use their anger to enact change through voting. “Show up at the polls on June 9th. Do it in November. That is the change we need in this country,” said Bottoms.\n“This is not the legacy of civil rights in America. This is chaos, and we are buying into it. This won’t change anything, we are no longer talking about the murder of an innocent man. We are talking about how you are burning police cars on the streets of Atlanta, Georgia. Go home.”\nMore Great Stories From Vanity Fair\n— Inside Donald Trump and Jared Kushner’s Two Months of Coronavirus Magical Thinking\n— The Trump Family Aims to Take Down Fox While Building Ties to a More Loyal Network\n— How Andrew Cuomo Became the Coronavirus Trump Antidote\n— In Blistering Whistleblower Complaint, Rick Bright Blasts Team Trump’s COVID-19 Response\n— How Trump Gutted Obama’s Pandemic Preparedness Systems\n— Advice for Biden in Chris Matthews’s First Interview Since His Hardball Exit\n— From the Archive: Revisiting Rupert Murdoch and Ted Turner’s Battle to Control the Future of 24-Hour News\nLooking for more? Sign up for our daily Hive newsletter and never miss a story.}}
{{President Donald Trump leaves after speaking in the Rose Garden of the White House, Friday, May 29, 2020, in Washington. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)\nThe White House was locked down on Friday evening as around 200 people gathered in front of the White House\nPresident Trump praised the U.S. Secret Service for it response to overnight protests outside the White House, saying protesters would have been met with “vicious dogs” and “ominous weapons” if they had managed to breach the fences.\nThe unrest came as demonstrations erupted in cities across the United States in response to the death of George Floyd, an unarmed black man who died after a white officer kept his knee on Floyd’s neck for several minutes.\n“Great job last night at the White House by the U.S. @SecretService. They were not only totally professional, but very cool. I was inside, watched every move, and couldn’t have felt more safe,” Mr.Trump said in one of several tweets about the demonstrations.\n“They let the ‘protesters’ scream & rant as much as they wanted, but whenever someone … got too frisky or out of line, they would quickly come down on them, hard – didn’t know what hit them. The front line was replaced with fresh agents, like magic.”\n“Big crowd, professionally organized, but nobody came close to breaching the fence. If they had they would…have been greeted with the most vicious dogs, and most ominous weapons, I have ever seen. That’s when people would have been really badly hurt, at least,” Mr. Trump continued.\nHe said Secret Service officers were “just waiting for action,” saying he was told: “We put the young ones on the front line, sir, they love it, and…good practice.”\n“As you saw last night, they were very cool & very professional. Never let it get out of hand. Thank you! On the bad side, the D.C. Mayor, @MurielBowser, who is always looking for money & help, wouldn’t let the D.C. Police get involved. ‘Not their job.’ Nice!” Mr. Trump wrote in a fourth an final tweet.\nThe White House was locked down on Friday evening as around 200 people gathered in front of the White House. Protesters pulled away the barricades that separated them from the White House. The Secret Service restored the barricades back in their place once they were knocked down, but it became almost a game, CBS News’ Fin Gomez reported.\nThousands of protesters congregated elsewhere in Washington, D.C., according to CBS Washington affiliate WUSA.\nProtesters face off with police outside the White House in Washington, D.C., early on May 30, 2020 during a demonstration over the death of George Floyd.ERIC BARADAT/AFP VIA GETTY\nFirst published on May 30, 2020 / 9:43 AM}}
{{Food prices expected to ‘skyrocket’ as country already beset by its worst-ever financial crisis is brought to its knees\nThe World Food Programme (WFP) is extremely concerned about the state of food security in Lebanon after the country — already in the throes of its worst-ever economic crisis — was rocked by the explosion in Beirut on Tuesday, which killed 137 people, a figure that is expected to rise.\nKicking off its response, at the behest of the Lebanese Ministry of Social Affairs, WFP will be allocating 5,000 food parcels to affected families — each package is enough to feed five people for one month and includes basic food items such as rice, pasta, oil, sugar, salt and tomato paste.\n“Damage to Beirut’s port, where ships carrying a third of WFP’s food supplies for the region dock, will significantly exacerbate the already grim economic and food security outlook in the country,” a spokesperson for the organization said.\nChief among fears is that 120,000 metric tons of staple foods stored at the port — including wheat, soy and other beans— have perished and that the price of food will skyrocket.\nEven before the explosion, food security in Lebanon was a cause of serious concern, with one million people already living below the poverty line and 45 percent of the Lebanese population sliding into poverty, according to the World Bank.\nWFP continues to provide 107,000 Lebanese with assistance through its e-cards — debit cards loaded with cash to buy food — through the Government’s National Poverty Targeting Programme.\nThe latest WFP survey on the combined impact of Lebanon’s economic crisis and COVID-19 lockdown measures on livelihoods and food security revealed that food has become a major source of concern, with 50 percent of Lebanese respondents saying over the past month they felt worried they would not have enough food to eat.\nFood imports, which account for up to 85 percent of the country’s food needs, saw a sharp decrease in the six months to April. As a consequence, the cost of staple foods has doubled in recent months.\nWith up to 300,000 people feared to have lost their homes since Tuesday, the food crisis is accompanied by a health crisis as hospitals — already suffering under the weight of COVID-19 cases — are forced turn people away.\nWhile assessing food security needs, WFP is seeking to facilitate medical support where possible. On Thursday a flight to Beirut — carrying 8.5 metric tons of surgical and trauma equipment donated by the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs — set off from the WFP-run United Nations Humanitarian Response Depot in Brindisi, Italy.\nThe organization, its partners, donors and the Lebanese Government are urgently seeking to protect the most vulnerable by improving and scaling up social assistance for the poorest, including through emergency safety nets.\nWFP is planning emergency food assistance to support 50,000 vulnerable Lebanese families — up to 250,000 people, affected by the economic and COVID-19 crises — in collaboration with several humanitarian agencies. WFP is also distributing food rations to 13,000 families of children who were included in its school meals programme.\nThe expected increase in food prices comes at a time of soaring unemployment rates and salary cuts with many families struggling to make ends meet.\nLooking to empower people over the long term, WFP will continue programmes helping to build — and rebuild — irrigation and stormwater drainage canals, fruit and vegetable markets and key roads to enhance the agricultural sector.\nWorld Food Programme Executive Director, David Beasley, is expected to visit Beirut on Sunday.}}
{{This site uses cookies to help personalise content, tailor your experience and to keep you logged in if you register.\nBy continuing to use this site, you are consenting to our use of cookies.}}
{{Clean-up teams in Beirut have called on the international community to support the country (Picture: Islamic Relief/Human Appeal)\nAid workers in Beirut have laid bare the sheer devastation left by a sea port explosion that ripped through the city.\nRescue teams, emergency workers, and charity volunteers have been working tirelessly around the clock to support the hundreds of thousands who have been left homeless, wounded, or grieving the loss of loved ones.\nThe blast, which occurred on Tuesday evening killing more than 135 people, has come at a time when the country is already ‘on its knees’ grappling with its worst economic crisis since the 1975-1990 civil war, along with a surge in coronavirus cases. Aid workers on the ground said they are worried the country may not recover, as they launched emergency appeals.\nAdvertisement\nAdvertisement\nIslamic Relief Lebanon Country Director, Nidal Ali, told Metro.co.uk: ‘This is a blast not only to the sea port but to the whole country. I’ve lived through two wars before in Lebanon but I’ve never seen something like this.\nAdvertisement\nTuesday’s blast completely destroyed Beirut’s sea port – a main gateway for food and medical supplies (Picture: Islamic Relief)\n‘This blast is different – the devastation, the scale of the damage, the destruction. These people are like refugees displaced in their own city.’\nThe boss of the INGO, which was founded in Birmingham, is worried food and medical supplies will soon dry up, as Beirut’s sea port was the country’s main gateway for importing goods. Although a port in the northern city of Tripoli has been assigned to bring in supplies, Nidal said its capacity is about a tenth of Beirut’s.\nHe said: ‘What will happen is we will see starvation on the streets. The shelves will be empty in one week, two, maybe three, and after that people will be on the street looking for something to eat.\n‘We don’t have the capacity to import enough food for the people. You can’t bring by aeroplanes what you used to bring by ship. Containers and whole ships were lost in the sea.’\nThe father-of-four, who lives about 2km away from the centre of the explosion, said he was still picking out shrapnel and small shards of glass buried into his head the next day.\nNidal’s home was left destroyed following the explosion (Picture: Supplied)\nNidal was picking pieces of glass and shrapnel from his hair the next day (Picture: Supplied)\nHe said: ‘I was having a coffee with my wife and my four-year-old daughter in the living room and suddenly we felt something like an earthquake. It felt like somebody was holding the building in his hand and shaking it strongly.\n‘My wife got scared and wanted to switch the electricity off at the board so she stood up and then the blast happened. The strength of the blast threw her away, maybe two to three metres, against the wall.\n‘All the walls, the balcony, and the windows were removed from their place and smashed. It was really, really scary.\n‘My daughter was traumatised, crying – not knowing what was happening around her. My wife was in a state of shock. We were taken by surprise and we didn’t know what to do.’\nLuckily, Nidal’s family did not suffer severe injuries and he later took them to safety in a village.\nHe does not know when he will be able to return home (Picture: Supplied)\nThe explosion has killed more than 135 people (Picture: Rex)\nThe clean-up effort is enormous across the city (Picture: Human Appeal)\nThe next day Nidal was out mobilising his teams to clean the streets, fix peoples’ homes, distribute free meals and water, and to track down as many of the 300,000 who have been left homeless to offer them shelter.\nAdvertisement\nAdvertisement\nAt least 5,000 people have been wounded and Nidal raised fears about how hospitals will cope as only 39 out of more than 100 in the city are not private, he said.\nFour of them are out of operation after being severely damaged in the blast, while others are so overwhelmed they have been forced to turn the wounded away.\n1,000,000 people could lose jobs this year as unemployment hits 7.5%\nHe said ‘animosity’ has been growing in the country since last October, when Islamic Relief had to put their long-term plans on-hold and prioritise food parcels because the recession had become a ‘humanitarian emergency’.\nNearly half of the population is living below the poverty line, and 35% are out of work, according to official statistics. Even the middle class are ‘fighting to put food on the table’, said Nidal.\nThe city has beend escribed as a ‘war zone’ (Picture: Islamic Relief)\nUp to 300,000 have been left without homes (Picture: Human Appeal)\nHe said: ‘People are getting frustrated and angry. Because of this crisis, and the shrapnel and the dirt in the street, nobody is able to demonstrate and show their anger because everyone is still in a state of shock.’\nAid worker Masarra Nakouzi, who has been working on the ground supporting victims through British international charity, Human Appeal, echoed Nidal’s concerns.\nMasarra, who is head of projects, said: ‘This is a country already suffering from a dire economic crisis… Its people are not in a position to cope with this disaster – the devastation, the search for answers and justice.’\nShe said ‘hundreds of thousands are facing a third night of uncertainty’ as there are currently not enough shelters to house everyone. Her team has been working to house and feed as many as they can.\nAdvertisement\nMasarra said she was at home in the city of Saida – about 44km away from Beirut – when the blast happened. She said: ‘I heard the sound of the explosion and thought it was an attack. My first reaction was that I hugged my daughter and hid under the table.’\nAid workers warned there are not enough shelters for everyone (Picture: Islamic Relief)\nThe charities urged the public to donate if they can (Picture: Human Appeal)\nCurrently, hundreds of workers for Human Appeal and Islamic Relief are out on the streets supporting victims. The charities urged the public to donate to their emergency appeals because ‘we really need it’.\nNidal said: ‘Without the international community’s support I don’t think the people of Lebanon would be able to get out of this, there will be a lot of suffering.\n‘This is a show of unity now. Everybody from all religions, of all colours, sex – everybody has come together in Beirut just to clean up and clear the way for life again.’\nTo donate to Islamic Relief, click here, and for Human Appeal here.\nGet in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.\nFor more stories like this, check our news page.}}
{{As Lebanon counted its dead and rescuers combed rubble for signs of life after a huge explosion shattered Beirut, nations near and far have pledged to help the country deal with the disaster.\nThe explosion at the capital’s port killed at least 135 people and injured thousands, with shock waves smashing deep into the city.\nWatch the video above\nFrom Australia to Indonesia to Europe and the United States, countries readied to send in aid and search teams.\nThe blast appeared to have been triggered by a fire that touched off a giant quantity of ammonium nitrate fertiliser stored for years in the port, exploding with the force of a moderately strong earthquake.\nSmoke rises above wrecked buildings at Beirut's port, devastated by an explosion a day earlier. Credit: Getty Images\nParis wasted no time in dispatching two plane-loads of specialists, rescue workers and supplies to Beirut on Wednesday. Reflecting both the gravity of the disaster and France’s special relationship with its former protectorate, French President Emmanuel Macron was to visit Lebanon on Thursday.\nThe disaster comes atop the worst economic crisis in Lebanon’s modern history, and hesitancy among some backers, including France, to keep propping up a country in dire need of reform.\nThe European Union was activating its civil protection system to round up emergency workers and equipment from across the 27-nation bloc. The EU commission said the plan was to urgently dispatch over 100 firefighters with vehicles, sniffer dogs and equipment designed to find people trapped in urban areas.\nCountries including declared enemy Israel, are ready to help Lebanon after the Beirut explosion. Credit: EPA\nThe Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, Poland and the Netherlands were taking part in the effort, with other countries expected to join. The EU’s satellite mapping system will be used to help Lebanese authorities establish the extent of damage.\nBritain has promised a $9.1 million humanitarian support package.\nHelp was also coming from closer to home. Iraq was sending six trucks of medical supplies and an emergency medical team to help bolster Lebanon’s overstretched health system, and Egypt and Jordan were supplying field hospitals.\nIn the video below: Beirut reels and anger grows after blast\nPlay Video Swathes of Beirut are damaged, and the death toll is still climbing, after the huge blast at Beirut's port. Initial investigations point to years of inaction and negligence. Swathes of Beirut are damaged, and the death toll is still climbing, after the huge blast at Beirut's port. Initial investigations point to years of inaction and negligence.\nEven Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said his country, officially in a state of war with Lebanon, stood ready to offer to assist the Lebanese “as human beings to human beings.”\nThe red, white and cedar green of the Lebanese flag was lit up over a Tel Aviv square on Wednesday in a rare show of Israeli solidarity with Beirut.\nSome Israeli politicians likened it to “raising (an) enemy state’s flag in the heart of Tel Aviv”.\nLebanon's government has vowed to exposed the negligent, after the deadly explosion in Beirut. Credit: EPA\nUN peacekeepers from Indonesia already stationed in Lebanon were helping in the evacuation effort, and Australia said it was donating $A2 million in humanitarian support.\nBut the pledges of aid raised new questions for a country whose economic and political crisis, combined with endemic corruption, have made donors wary in recent years.\nThe massive explosion that ripped through Beirut, killing dozens and injuring thousands. Credit: Twitter\nIn a visit to Lebanon less than two weeks ago, French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian made clear that France, Beirut’s steadfast economic backer, would withhold support not destined to go directly to the Lebanese population, until “credible and serious reform measures” get under way.\nUS Secretary of State Michael R. Pompeo reaffirmed “our steadfast commitment to assist the Lebanese people” in a phone call with Prime Minister Hassan Diab.\nThe World Health Organisation is airlifting medical supplies to Lebanon to cover up to 1,000 trauma interventions and up to 1,000 surgical interventions, following a request from the country’s health minister.\nPope Francis offered prayers for the Lebanese, while in Paris the Eiffel tower will be in darkness.}}
{{HORRIFYING footage shows the moment a bride runs for her life during the devastating explosion in Beirut yesterday.\nNewlywed Israa Seblani, 29, is seen draped in a shining white gown and smiling for the camera before a thunderous blast rings out just one kilometre away in the Lebanese capital.\n⚠️ Read our Beirut live blog for the latest news & updates\n14 Footage shows newlywed Israa Seblani, 29, draped in a shining white gown and smiling for the camera before the blast Credit: Twitter\n14 She then runs for cover after hearing the explosion Credit: Twitter\n14 Bride Seblani, a doctor working in the US, helped to check on the injured nearby, before fleeing central Beirut's Saifi square to safety Credit: Twitter\n14 She poses with husband Ahmad Subeih in the same place where they took the wedding photos yesterday at the moment of the explosion Credit: Reuters\n135 people have been killed and around 5,000 injured in the blast - caused by the explosion of 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate.\nIn the clip, shared today on Twitter, the bride is seen beaming as her photographer Mahmoud Nakib zooms in on her wedding dress.\nBut seconds later, a gigantic explosion is heard in the distance - with the force of the blast picked up by the microphone.\nThe camera then pans away to a quiet residential street where clouds of dust from the explosion have already created a thick smog.\nResidents of nearby apartments are then seen hurrying across the street as the bride makes a dash for cover.\n'I WAS SHOCKED'\nBride Seblani, a doctor working in the US, helped to check on the injured nearby, before fleeing central Beirut's Saifi square to safety.\nReturning to the scene a day after the explosion, she told Reuters: ""I have been preparing for my big day for two weeks and I was so happy like all other girls, 'I am getting married'. My parents are going to be happy seeing me in a white dress, I will be looking like a princess.\n"What happened during the explosion here - there is no word to explain ... I was shocked, I was wondering what happened, am I going to die? How am I going to die?"\nLebanese prime minister Hassan Diab has said that the ammonium nitrate which explodedhad been sitting unsecured for six years in a warehouse in the city's port.\nThe disaster was sparked when a welder ignited 2,700 tons of explosive chemicals in the port area, it’s reported.\n14 Residents of nearby apartments are then filmed hurrying across the street as the bride makes a dash for cover Credit: Twitter\nThe mammoth explosion erupted in the port yesterday\n14 A general view of the destroyed port in the aftermath of the massive explosion Credit: EPA\n14 People walk with their belongings after evacuating their damaged housing units in the Mar Mikhael area of Beirut, Lebanon Credit: EPA\nRescuers in the smouldering remains of the blast site\nThe blast, which occurred at around 6pm yesterday, has obliterated Lebanon's capital as authorities continue to search the rubble for victims.\nBut several of Beirut’s hospitals were damaged in the blast, hampering their efforts to treat the constant stream of wounded victims.\nOutside the stricken St George University Hospital, people with various injuries arrived in ambulances, in cars and on foot.\nDozens of injured were being treated on the spot in the street outside, on stretchers and wheelchairs.\nExperts believe the explosion was the equivalent of 1,000 to 1,500 tonnes of TNT, which is about a tenth of the intensity of the Hiroshima nuclear bomb.\nThe blast has proved particularly devastating for a country already suffering the twin crises of a failing economy and a severe coronavirus outbreak - though countries around the world have pledged financial aid.\nMost read in News GUNNED DOWN Kids' author shot in 'assassination attempt' by biker who died fleeing cops FURNACE FRIDAY UK set for record breaking hottest day EVER tomorrow with 38C scorcher ROY-ILL MAIL Coronavirus outbreak at Royal Mail delivery office as '19 workers hit by bug' Exclusive LUCKY DRAW Lotto lout Mikey Carroll has found love & says wild hellraising days are over URGENT DROP-OFF Woman horrified to find Amazon delivery driver taking a poo in her garden Exclusive DEATH 'FLAWS' Thousands of Covid deaths set to be wiped off official records after review\nForeign secretary Dominic Raab said today that Britain would provide £5 million of aid to Beirut, and promised the UK would "stand by the Lebanese people in their time of need".\nAnd the US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo also reiterated his country's "steadfast" commitment to helping the Middle Eastern nation.\nFrance, meanwhile, says it is sending two planes with dozens of emergency workers, a mobile medical unit and 15 tonnes of aid.\nPeople check inside a car crushed by rubble\nAerial images show the scale of the destruction this morning\nThe blast was said to be a fifth of the size of the one which devastated Hiroshima\nRescue workers carry the body of one victim from near the blast's epicentre}}
{{A large explosion rocked the Lebanese capital, Beirut, causing widespread damage and injuring many people.\nIt is not yet clear what caused the explosion in the port area of the city but footage posted online showed a large mushroom cloud, destroyed buildings and overturned cars.\nHospitals are said to be overwhelmed by casualties.\nFootage shows an initial explosion, possibly caused by a fire, with multiple flashes amid the flames. This was followed by a second, much larger blast that caused a massive mushroom-like cloud.\nThe cause of the explosion is still not known, but some reports suggest it may have been an accident at an explosives depot inside the port.\nThe explosion comes at a sensitive time for the country where old tensions are running high as a result of economic collapse. The explosion comes on the eve of the verdict in a trial over the killing of ex-prime minister Rafik Hariri in 2005.\nA UN tribunal is due to issue its verdict in the trial of four suspects in the murder by car bomb of Hariri on Friday.\nLebanon's health minister, Hamad Hasan, has spoken of many injuries and extensive damage.}}
{{Beirut reels from huge blast as death toll climbs to at least 135\nAn official source familiar with preliminary investigations blamed the incident on 'inaction and negligence', saying 'nothing was done' by committees and judges involved in the matter to order the removal of hazardous material.\nBEIRUT - Lebanese rescue teams pulled out bodies and hunted for missing in the wreckage of buildings on Wednesday as investigations blamed negligence for a massive warehouse explosion that sent a devastating blast wave across Beirut, killing at least 135.\nMore than 5,000 people were injured in Tuesday’s explosion at Beirut port, Health Minister Hamad Hassan said, and up to 250,000 were left without homes fit to live in after shockwaves smashed building facades, sucked furniture out into streets and shattered windows miles inland.\nHassan said tens of people remained missing. Prime Minister Hassan Diab declared three days of mourning from Thursday.\nThe death toll was expected to rise from the blast, which officials blamed on a huge stockpile of highly explosive material stored for years in unsafe conditions at the port.\nThe explosion was the most powerful ever to rip through Beirut, a city still scarred by civil war that ended three decades ago and reeling from an economic meltdown and a surge in coronavirus infections. The blast rattled buildings on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus, about 100 miles (160 km) away.\nPresident Michel Aoun said 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate, used in fertilisers and bombs, had been stored for six years at the port without safety measures, after it was seized.\nIn an address to the nation during an emergency cabinet session, Aoun said: “No words can describe the horror that has hit Beirut last night, turning it into a disaster-stricken city”.\nHe said the government was “determined to investigate and expose what happened as soon as possible, to hold the responsible and the negligent accountable.”\nAn official source familiar with preliminary investigations blamed the incident on “inaction and negligence”, saying “nothing was done” by committees and judges involved in the matter to order the removal of hazardous material.\nThe cabinet ordered port officials involved in storing or guarding the material since 2014 to be put under house arrest, ministerial sources told Reuters. The cabinet also announced a two-week state of emergency in Beirut.\n‘COLLAPSE OF LEBANON’\nOrdinary Lebanese, who have lost jobs and watched savings evaporate in Lebanon’s financial crisis, blamed politicians who have overseen decades of state corruption and bad governance.\n“This explosion seals the collapse of Lebanon. I really blame the ruling class,” said Hassan Zaiter, 32, a manager at the heavily damaged Le Gray Hotel in downtown Beirut.\nThe health minister said the death toll had climbed to 135, as the search for victims continued after shockwaves from the blast hurled some of the victims into the sea.\nRelatives gathered at the cordon to Beirut port seeking information on those still missing. Many of those killed were port and custom employees, people working in the area or those driving nearby during the Tuesday evening rush hour.\nThe Red Cross was coordinating with the Health Ministry to set up morgues as hospitals were overwhelmed. Health officials said hospitals were struggling with the big influx of casualties and were running out of beds and equipment to attend to the injured and those in critical condition.\nBeirut’s Clemenceau Medical Center was “like a slaughterhouse, blood covering the corridors and the lifts,” said Sara, one of its nurses.\nBeirut Governor Marwan Abboud told broadcaster LBC the blast had caused damage worth up to $5 billion, and possibly more, and left up to 250,000 people without homes.\n“This is the killer blow for Beirut, we are a disaster zone,” said Bilal, a man in his 60s, in the downtown area.\nOffers of international support poured in. Gulf Arab states, who in the past were major financial supporters of Lebanon but recently stepped back because of what they say is Iranian meddling, sent planes with medical equipment and other supplies. Iran offered food and a field hospital, ISNA news agency said.\nThe United States, Britain, France and other Western nations, which have been demanding political and economic change in Lebanon, also offered help. Germany, the Netherlands and Cyprus offered specialised search and rescue teams.\nTwo French planes were expected to arrive on Thursday with 55 rescuers, medical equipment and a mobile clinic. French President Emmanuel Macron will also visit Lebanon on Thursday. Other Arab and European countries are sending doctors, mobile hospitals and equipment.\n‘CATASTROPHE’\nFor many it was a dreadful reminder of the 1975-1990 civil war that tore the nation apart and destroyed swathes of Beirut, much of which had since been rebuilt.\n“This is a catastrophe for Beirut and Lebanon.” Beirut’s mayor, Jamal Itani, told Reuters while inspecting damage.\nOfficials did not say what caused the initial blaze at the port that set off the blast. A security source and media said it was started by welding work being carried out on a warehouse.\nTaxi driver Abou Khaled said ministers “are the first that should be held accountable for this disaster. They committed a crime against the people of this nation with their negligence.”\nThe port district was left a tangled wreck, disabling the nation’s main route for imports needed to feed a nation of more than 6 million people.\nLebanon has already been struggling to house and feed refugees fleeing conflict in neighbouring Syria and has no trade or other ties with its only other neighbour Israel.\n“On a scale, this explosion is scaled down from a nuclear bomb rather than up from a conventional bomb,” said Roland Alford, managing director of British explosive ordnance disposal firm Alford Technologies. “This is huge.”\nThe blast prompted the Special Tribunal for Lebanon on Wednesday to postpone its verdict in the trial over the 2005 bombing that killed ex-Prime Minister Rafik al-Hariri to 18 August. The tribunal’s decision had been expected this Friday.\nThe UN-backed court put on trial four suspects from the Iranian-backed Shi’ite Muslim group Hezbollah. Hariri and 21 others were killed by a big truck bomb on another part of the Beirut waterfront, about 2 km (about one mile) from the port.\nDownload the EWN app to your iOS or Android device.}}
{{BOSTON (CBS) — Boston Mayor Marty Walsh asked people to honor George Floyd and reflect on his murder Saturday. Walsh, along with Boston Police Commissioner William Gross and religious leaders in the city held a prayer vigil.\n“Now is a time for all of us to stand together by praying for peace, by listening and learning and working for justice. Too often we all hear the news that another black man or another black woman has been killed. Our response is consistent. ‘I can’t believe this. How could this happen.’ But we all know how it happens. It’s a part of the history of hatred and violence that’s rooted in our country’s past and continues today through systemic racism,” said Walsh.\n“This is reality, study the history,” he continued. “For black Americans and black parents and black children, it’s a traumatic reality that has played out far too many times. And it never stops hurting.”\nSpeaking directly to the black community, Walsh said: “I want you to know that I stand with you and I love you. Even though I don’t walk in your shoes, my heart aches for you.”\nHe said people need to put aside differences to take steps forward and that now is the time to commit to justice and change as a nation.\n“We should recognize why people are speaking out. Right now in cities across America and here in Boston, our fellow black Americans are making their voices heard. Black neighbors and co-workers are exercising their right to demonstrate and to demand and ask for change. We need to be listening. I can’t be standing here six months from now, and give this same speech, and give the same words.”\nThe coronavirus pandemic, which has changed life everywhere, it brought certain inequities to light in Boston. According to Walsh, minority communities were at first hit harder by the virus, but those numbers have slowly gone down once proper action was taken.\n“If this pandemic has taught me anything or taught us anything, it should be that we should never forget: it’s that we depend on each other,” said Walsh.\nThe Boston Police Department is committed to becoming the “most professional, community-friendly police department in the entire United States of America,” said Walsh.\nGross made his thoughts on Floyd’s death clear. “This isn’t like past incidents, you’ve seen all of us come out and announce those actions of that officer. Excuse me, I won’t even call him an officer. The actions of that man, taking another’s life in front of us. We denounce it. We support the termination. And we believe that all of those efforts dissipated should be brought to justice because that’s what’s right,” he said.\n“We’re taught right and wrong when we’re raised right and wrong. And then we have to see this again and again and again? That is not indicative of all law enforcement, but those that you that think it is, we have to prove that it isn’t that way.”\nA number of religious leaders also took turns speaking.\n“We are here because we have a moral obligation,” said Reverand Bishop Borders.}}
{{The preliminary autopsy results of George Floyd found no evidence that he died of asphyxiation or strangulation, according to the criminal complaint filed against former Minneapolis police office Derek Chauvin, who is accused of kneeling on Floyd’s neck for almost nine minutes.\nFloyd’s family has now hired forensic pathologist Dr. Michael Baden to perform a second, independent autopsy, Baden confirmed to Fox News.\nBaden, who formerly was New York City’s chief medical examiner, said he was set to travel to Minneapolis on Saturday and announce his findings next week.\nChauvin, 44, was arrested and charged Friday with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.\nThe case, which grew out of an arrest over suspicion of Floyd trying to buy merchandise with a counterfeit $20 bill, became a national flashpoint after video of Chauvin kneeling on Floyd’s neck circulated on social media.\nTRENDING: Washington Inflates COVID-19 Numbers, Includes Gunshot Victims Among Deaths\nDerek Chauvin, former Minneapolis police officer, has been charged with 3rd-degree murder and manslaughter in the killing of George Floyd. pic.twitter.com/Xg6fvFBeEn — UberFacts (@UberFacts) May 29, 2020\nHis death has sparked protests across the United States this week, which in many cases have turned into riots.\nAccording to the criminal complaint against Chauvin, Floyd fell to the ground when police sought to get him into a squad car.\nDo you believe the police officer acted improperly? Yes No Completing this poll entitles you to The Western Journal news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You're logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out. 83% (459 Votes) 17% (92 Votes)\n“The officers made several attempts to get Mr. Floyd in the backseat of squad 320 from the driver’s side,” the complaint said. “Mr. Floyd did not voluntarily get in the car and struggled with the officers by intentionally falling down, saying he was not going in the car, and refusing to stand still.”\n“While standing outside the car, Mr. Floyd began saying and repeating that he could not breathe,” the complaint added, saying that Chauvin “went to the passenger side and tried to get Mr. Floyd into the car from that side” with help from other officers.\nChauvin “pulled Mr. Floyd out of the passenger side of the squad car at 8:19:38 p.m. and Mr. Floyd went to the ground face down and still handcuffed,” it said.\nWhile other officers held his back and legs, the complaint said Chauvin “placed his left knee in the area of Mr. Floyd’s head and neck.”\n“Mr. Floyd said, ‘I can’t ‘breathe’ multiple times and repeatedly said, ‘Mama’ and ‘please’ as well,” the complaint said, later adding: “The officers said, ‘You are talking fine.'”\nRELATED: Barr Announces Federal Intervention in George Floyd Case\nAfter several minutes, when officers could not find a pulse on Floyd, Chauvin “removed his knee from Mr. Floyd’s neck,” according to the complaint.\nThe complaint noted: “The Hennepin County Medical Examiner (ME) conducted Mr. Floyd’s autopsy on May 26 , 2020. The full report of the ME is pending but the ME has made the following preliminary findings.\n“The autopsy revealed no physical findings that support a diagnosis of traumatic asphyxia or strangulation.”\nThe complaint then cited other possible reasons Floyd died.\n“Mr. Floyd had underlying health conditions including coronary artery disease and hypertensive heart disease. The combined effects of Mr. Floyd being restrained by the police, his underlying health conditions and any potential intoxicants in his system likely contributed to his death,” it said.\n“The defendant had his knee on Mr. Floyd’s neck for 8 minutes and 46 seconds in total. Two minutes and 53 seconds of this was after Mr. Floyd was non-responsive. Police are trained that this type of restraint with a subject in a prone position is inherently dangerous.”\nBen Crump and S. Lee Merritt, attorneys for Floyd’s family, said a second autopsy was needed, recalling the 2014 death of Eric Garner, who was put in a chokehold by New York City police and later died. Baden performed an autopsy in the Garner case.\n“We saw in the Eric Garner case, and so many other cases where they have people who work with the city workers come up with things that are such an illusion — he had asthma, he had a heart condition — all these things that are irrelevant when they were living, breathing, walking, talking, just fine until the police accosted them,” Crump said at a news conference, according to ABC News.\nCrump framed the case as an example of what he claimed is a national climate of racism.\n“We have been dealing with the pandemic of racism and discrimination for far too long,” he said.\n“It is a pandemic, a national pandemic, we cannot keep looking at this regionally, this is affecting all African-Americans, this a state of emergency.\n“If we don’t address this in the next month or two we will see another senseless, unjustifiable killing of an African-American at the hands by people who are police or pretend to be police,” Crump added.\nWe are committed to truth and accuracy in all of our journalism. Read our editorial standards.}}
{{WASHINGTON: US President-elect Joe Biden said in a statement on Friday the November US jobs report underlined the need for urgent action on coronavirus relief but that any package passed by Congress now would not suffice and that more would be needed in January.\n"This is a grim jobs report. It shows an economy that is stalling," he said, adding he was "encouraged" by bipartisan Senate efforts on a $900 billion relief package.\n"Congress and President Trump must get a deal done for the American people. But any package passed in the lame-duck session is not enough. ... Congress will need to act again in January."}}
{{Under the new guidelines, police personnel who encounter any such violations will be required to “safely intervene by verbal and physical means, and if they do not do so shall be subject to discipline to the same severity as if they themselves engaged in the prohibited use of force.”}}
{{Loopholes in Healthcare Information System may have failed Singapore COVID-19 model\nIn the initial days of the COVID-19 outbreak, Singapore was in the limelight for its effective healthcare system and pandemic response plan. However, Singapore has now joined the list of the worst-hit nations and the situation is even worse...}}
{{DURHAM (WTVD) -- Demonstrators have gathered in downtown Durham to protest the death of George Floyd.Protesters are gathering near Chapel Hill Street and Main Street.Overnight, several people were arrested in Charlotte while protesting Floyd's death. Those arrested include Charlotte city councilman Braxton Winston. The white Minneapolis police officer who pressed his knee into George Floyd's neck as he begged for air was arrested Friday and charged with murder. Officer Derek Chauvin, 44, was charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.He also was accused of ignoring another officer who expressed concerns about Floyd as he lay handcuffed on the ground, pleading that he could not breathe while Chauvin pressed his knee into his neck for several minutes. Floyd, who was black, had been arrested on suspicion of using a counterfeit bill at a store.Parents in downtown Raleigh daycare centers were alerted to pick their children up early on Friday around 4 p.m. and county office workers were dismissed ahead of schedule after the Wake County Emergency Operations Center warned of potentially violent protests starting at 6 p.m.}}
{{Schalke midfielder Weston McKennie expressed his solidarity with protests across the United States following George Floyd's murder by wearing a 'Justice for George' armband during his side's defeat to Werder Bremen.\nMr Floyd had a knee pressed into his neck for more than eight minutes while being detained, and eventually died on the scene in Minneapolis on Monday.\nPolice officer Derek Chauvin, 44, has been charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter after the death of Mr Floyd who begged for air while being arrested.\nSchalke midfielder Weston McKennie showed his support for George Floyd by wearing a 'Justice for George' armband\nDerek Chauvin (in uniform) is shown here in a still from a video when he knelt on Floyd's neck\nThe incident sparked demonstrations that have continued throughout the week in the city and across the nation, with 30 cities up in arms by Friday night.\nMany of the demonstrations have also turned violent following clashes between officers and protesters and widespread damage to property.\nBut United States international McKennie showed his support for the movement by wearing the 'Justice for George' armband on his left arm during Schalke's Bundesliga loss to Bremen.\nProtests in McKennie's hometown of Dallas, Texas erupted on Friday night, with rioters smashing windows and looting some stores.\nMr Floyd's murder in Minneapolis on Monday has sparked protests throughout the week\nMore demonstrations are expected nationwide on Saturday, with US president Donald Trump putting the Army on notice to be deployed to US streets for the first time since the 1992.\nFrance World Cup winner and Paris Saint-Germain star Kylian Mbappe also showed his support, tweeting the hashtag 'JusticeForGeorge' with emojis of a speaking head and a fist.\nMcKennie's actions come after Ian Wright admitted it is 'maybe time for a bit of a break' after watching the video of Mr Floyd being murdered.\nThe former Arsenal and England striker took to Twitter to share his thoughts on the shocking footage on Friday night, admitting it left him 'tired'.\nIan Wright also admitted he was left 'tired' after watching the video of Floyd being murdered\nHe wrote: 'I'm tired. We tired. The comments, the replies, every day explaining ourselves. That video. Just drained. Maybe time for a bit of a break.'\nBut on the pitch, McKennie was unable to prevent his team's current slide in form in their 1-0 home defeat.\nSchalke have now lost six of seven matches and have gone 11 games without a win after falling to Bremen, whose winner came courtesy of Leonardo Bittencourt.\nThe result saw David Wagner's men slide into the bottom half of the Bundesliga table, which appeared unthinkable after their strong start to the season.}}
{{French President Emmanuel Macron took a tough tone on the reforms he said were the only thing holding back a massive aid package that could help Lebanon get back on its feet\nAdvertising Read more\nBeirut (AFP)\nFrench President Emmanuel Macron Thursday called for an international investigation into the blast at Beirut's port that killed more than 130 people and ravaged entire neighbourhoods, costing the country billions.\n"An international, open and transparent probe is needed to prevent things from remaining hidden and doubt from creeping in," he told reporters at the end of a snap visit to the Lebanese capital.\nIn asking for an international enquiry, he joined calls widely supported in and outside Lebanon for an independent probe, and said French investigators were on their way to Beirut.\nEven as they counted their dead and cleared streets of debris, many Lebanese were boiling with anger over a blast they see as the most shocking expression yet of their leadership's incompetence.\nLebanese authorities said the massive explosion was triggered by a fire igniting 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate stored in a warehouse at Beirut's port.\nBut many questions have been raised as to how such a huge cargo of highly explosive material could have been left unsecured for years.\nMacron said a French military aircraft carrier was hours away from landing in Beirut with "rescue teams and investigators to take the search and the probe forward".\nLebanon's foreign minister had announced on French radio Thursday that an investigating committee had been given four days to determine responsibility for Tuesday's devastating explosion.\nYet most of the members of this committee are high-ranking officials who command little trust from the people and many relatives of the blast's victims have been calling for foreign investigators.\nThe cataclysmic explosion, which left an estimated 300,000 people temporarily homeless and injured around 5,000 people, struck when Lebanon was already battling rampant inflation and rising poverty.\nThe International Monetary Fund has offered help but Lebanon's political leaders have balked at the measures the monetary institution is requesting for a rescue package to be approved.\nTo help ease the crisis, an international aid conference for Lebanon would be held "in the coming days," Macron said.\nHe stressed that the aid raised during the conference would be chanelled "directly to the people, the relief organisations and the teams that need it on the ground".\nThe French president took a tough tone on the reforms he said were the only thing holding back a massive aid package that could put the ailing country back in the saddle.\nSpeaking of Lebanon's political leaders, Macron said: "Their responsibility is huge, that of a revamped pact with the Lebanese people in the coming weeks, that of deep change."\n© 2020 AFP}}
{{Shipping companies diverted vessels away from the damaged Beirut port following a massive explosion there last week in a waterfront warehouse, the Wall Street Journal reported. The explosion, which appears to be an accident from stored fertilizer, killed more than 100 people and devastated Lebanon’s main trading gateway.\nSeveral carriers shifted Beirut-bound ships to other ports in the Mediterranean in response to the explosion and its damaging effects. CMA GGM SA, a French container line, said in a statement it was working “to guarantee perfect business continuity and to maintain the supply of primary necessities to the country,” according to the article.\nKodak loan for drug ingredients halted over insider trading investigation\nA potential federal contract for Eastman Kodak to produce pharmaceutical ingredients within the U.S. was postponed after allegations of insider trading developed, CBS News reports.\nKodak, traditionally known for its film products, was set to receive a $765 million loan from the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation to enhance their production of drug ingredients that are in short supply within the U.S., according to the article. The loan was going to help pay for expansion and renovations for two of its larger plants.\nKodak announced Friday it was conducting an internal review related to the loan. The SEC is in the early stages of its investigations, according to the Wall Street Journal.\nLogistics companies want to use AI data to quicken supply chain\nLogistics companies may soon begin using artificial intelligence data to ship goods ahead of consumers’ decisions to purchase and order the product, according to Supply Chain Dive. Its report said that more than 60% of companies will begin using AI in the next three to five years.\nThe phenomenon is becoming known as “preemptive logistics,” which relies on a broader industry information sharing system that includes the proper visibility required to send the right type and quantity of goods to a client, according to the article. The report found that the inability to share accurate information between customers and suppliers is a roadblock. In addition, the COVID-19 disruption has proven to be a large challenge for companies.\nIn an ideal world, shippers would be able to "predict the demand for products, services and solutions before customers even make purchase decisions ... (and) all parties will be able to see where and in what condition the shipments are (age, temperature, vibration, etc.)," according to Ericsson's report.\nNever miss out on Spend Matters news — sign up for our newsletter!}}
{{This site uses cookies to help personalise content, tailor your experience and to keep you logged in if you register.\nBy continuing to use this site, you are consenting to our use of cookies.}}
{{Today’s Headlines\nThe most important news stories of the day, curated by Post editors and delivered every morning.\nBy signing up you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy}}
{{In this May 29, 2020, photo, a check-cashing business burns during protests in Minneapolis. Protests continued following the death of George Floyd, who died after being restrained by Minneapolis police officers on Memorial Day. (AP Photo/John Minchillo)\nMINNEAPOLIS, Minn. (CNN) — Minnesota’s governor said Saturday he will move to “fully mobilize the National Guard” after destructive Minneapolis-area protests that he says are “no longer in any way about the murder of George Floyd.”\n“Last night (was) a mockery of pretending this about George Floyd’s death or inequities,” Gov. Tim Walz said in a news conference. He asserted unrest has become about outsiders — largely not Minnesotans — “attacking civil society (and) instilling fear.”\nWalz’s comments came the day after a breathtaking night of protests, fires and riots in cities across the country, sparked in part by Monday’s death of Floyd, an unarmed and handcuffed 46-year-old black man, while in Minneapolis police custody.\nWalz and the mayors of Minneapolis and St. Paul said vandals are largely nonresidents of the cities with no interest in Floyd’s death. The state’s “communities of color … were out fighting hand in hand,” he said, to try to save businesses, some that took generations to build, that were under attack.\n“Nothing we do to provide justice” for Floyd “matter(s) to any of these people who are out here firing upon the National Guard, burning” businesses and “disrupting civil life,” Walz said.\nEvery person arrested Friday night in St. Paul was from out of state, Mayor Melvin Carter said.\n“We will not accept George Floyd’s death. We will not accept the destruction of our communities, either,” Carter said.\nAssertions about outside agitators come partly from data about who has been arrested, as well as information from fliers and online postings, state public safety commissioner John Harrington said. He said he hopes to release supporting information later Saturday.\nWalz said he understands that “Minnesotans’ … inability to deal with inequality” and racism catalyzed the protests — but he said rough estimates indicate only 20% of protesters there are Minnesotans.\nAnger boiled over Friday in more than 30 cities, with some protesters smashing windows, setting vehicles ablaze, blocking traffic on highways and clashing with police.\nIn Minneapolis, where an officer seen on video with his knee on Floyd’s neck was arrested Friday, some protesters knelt under a bridge and prayed. Others tossed rocks at officers who fired rubber bullets in return. At a protest in Detroit, one person was shot dead. And in Springfield, Massachusetts, hundreds gathered peacefully.\n“If you can tell me something better for me to do — if you can tell me a way that we could change the world without trying to make noise like that, then I’ll get out of the streets,” Max Bailey, 22, said at the protests in Denver.\nA nation cooped up for weeks over coronavirus restrictions and suffering from resulting job losses now sees throngs of people demonstrating in streets, unloading a powder keg of emotion in part over the recent deaths of Floyd and other unarmed black Americans.\nIn Oakland, California, one Federal Protective Service officer was killed and other injured Friday in a shooting at the downtown federal building during protests in the city, police said. Details about what led to the shooting weren’t immediately available.\nLive updates: Protests spread nationwide\nKey developments\n• Teen shot: Detroit police could not confirm whether the 19-year-old killed was part of the protests, but they said the shooting happened downtown where the rallies were taking place. A police captain was struck with a rock during the protests.\n• More soldiers: With 1,700 personnel, this will be the first full mobilization of Minnesota’s National Guard since World War II, the unit and Maj. Gen. Jon Jensen said. The governor spoke with US Defense Secretary Mark Esper to inquire about possible federal assistance, Walz said Saturday. A defense official with knowledge of current planning told CNN that Walz has said he didn’t need federal troops at this point.\n• Clashes and arrests: Police in New York City have made over 200 arrests connected to protests, according to a senior NYPD source. More than a dozen police officers have been seriously hurt, the source said. Protesters and police clashed Friday outside the Barclays Center. Protesters threw water bottles at police officers.\n• Pleas for peace: In Dallas, Mayor Eric Johnson implored people destroying property to stop. “I understand the outrage, and I feel this pain deeply,” Johnson said. “What happened in Minneapolis is unacceptable. But please, remain peaceful.”\n• Officers injured: Two police officers were injured during protests in Los Angeles. The LAPD declared downtown protests an unlawful assembly and said anyone who disobeys the order will be arrested.\n• Hundreds of arrests: In Houston, nearly 200 people were arrested and most will be charged with obstructing a roadway, according to the Police Department. It also said four of its officers suffered minor injuries.\n• Mayor speaks: Portland police dispersed protesters with tear gas, saying there was property damage, looting and arson to buildings and vehicles. “Enough,” Mayor Ted Wheeler tweeted.\nProtests across the nation\nThough protesters called out similar chants for justice, the demonstrations played out differently in each city.\nThe epicenter of the demonstrations was Minneapolis, where officers stood on top of a precinct armed with nonlethal deterrents as a man in the crowd of protesters tried to climb the gate. When fires moved from the precinct to dumpsters and residential streets, more than 350 troops were deployed to control the groups.\nMinneapolis and St. Paul were under a curfew after looting and arson broke out during days of protests. But hundreds took to the streets as police fired tear gas and protesters hid behind cars.\nThe Twin Cities will have over 1,700 National Guard soldiers this weekend, officials said.\n“It’s about time this police brutality has to stop. I don’t agree with breaking into all of the businesses, but I can understand the outrage after REPEATED incidents,” Mackenzie Slagle said of protests in Oakland. “Because I’m a white woman, and I needed to show up for all my brothers and sisters.”\nIn Atlanta, a day of protests began peacefully but turned when a crowd set fire to a police car and smashed the windows of a defaced CNN Center. Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp said he’ll activate National Guard troops “to protect people and property in Atlanta.\n“What I see happening on the streets of Atlanta is not Atlanta. This is not a protest. This is not in the spirit of Martin Luther King, Jr. This is chaos,” Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said.\n“Killer” was scrawled across a beaten police car in Los Angeles where protesters lined up along a freeway to block traffic. At least two officers were injured over the course of the night, said the LAPD.\nIn Washington, the White House was briefly locked down Friday as protesters moved toward it. For hours overnight, protesters confronted officers, including those from the Secret Service, throwing bottles at them, removing metal barriers and pushing against officers’ riot shields. Officers responded at least once by spraying pepper spray.\nIn San Jose, California, protesters blocked a highway and smashed windows of at least one stopped vehicle, video from CNN affiliate KGO shows. Demonstrators also stopped traffic on an Interstate 43 ramp in Milwaukee, CNN affiliate WISN reported.\nProtesters in Boston chanted, “Who do you protect? Who do you serve?” Friday outside a police precinct building.\nBail is set for the officer arrested\nThe bail for Derek Chauvin, the former officer charged Friday with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter, was set at $500,000.\nChauvin, who is white, and three other officers detained Floyd, who was black, in handcuffs Monday after he allegedly used a counterfeit bill at a convenience store. Outrage grew after a video surfaced showing Chauvin kneeling on Floyd’s neck. Floyd, 46, was unarmed and cried out that he couldn’t breathe.\nChauvin had his knee on Floyd’s neck for a total of 8 minutes, 46 seconds, according to a criminal complaint filed Friday. Charges against the other three officers are likely, authorities said.\nAll four officers were fired this week, after Floyd’s death.\nFloyd’s family is upsetthat Chauvinwasn’t charged with a more serious offense, their attorney Benjamin Crump said.\n“We expected a first-degree murder charge. We want a first-degree murder charge. And we want to see the other officers arrested,” the family said in a statement.\nIf convicted of third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter, Chauvin faces 25 years in prison on the first charge and up to 10 years on the second.\nChauvin’s wife has filed for divorce, according to a statement on her behalf by a Minneapolis law firm.\nVideo shows 3 officers kneeling on George Floyd\nNew video posted on social media, meanwhile, appears to show three Minneapolis police officers — not just Chauvin — kneeling on George Floyd during his arrest. CNN has not been able to locate the person who shot the footage.\nThe new video shows the other side of the Minneapolis police vehicle — the side opposite shown in initially shared images.\n“I can’t breathe, man,” Floyd can be heard saying in the new video. “Please, let me stand. Please, man.”\nMinneapolis police had said Floyd “physically resisted” the officers. Surveillance footage from a nearby restaurant does not appear to support the claim that he resisted arrest during the initial encounter. However, there are several minutes when Floyd’s and the officers’ interactions cannot be seen from that camera’s vantage point.\nThe new video showing three officers apparently kneeling on Floyd seems to have been taken some time after the restaurant surveillance video.\nAutopsy lists several factors\nA preliminary autopsy said the combined effects of Floyd being restrained, potential intoxicants in his system and underlying health issues, including heart disease, contributed to his death.\nIt said there was no physical findings to support strangulation as the cause of death.\nRead the criminal complaint\nThe absence of physical evidence doesn’t necessarily mean Floyd didn’t die from asphyxiation, CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta cautioned.\nGupta also said an officer should have started CPR after one of them told the others he couldn’t find a pulse.\nCNN has reached out to the former officer’s attorney and the Minneapolis police union for comment.}}
{{Raging George Floyd protesters targeted New York’s Finest overnight in Brooklyn with Molotov cocktails, bricks and brass knuckles, according to NYPD Police Commissioner Dermot Shea, who said Saturday that “countless” cops were injured when the demonstrations devolved into chaos.\nAt least one person was arrested for attempted murder of four cops after throwing a Molotov cocktail into a marked police van, Shea said.\nA sergeant was punched in the head with brass knuckles.\nAnd another cop got his teeth knocked out, a still shaken Shea said at a joint press conference with Mayor de Blasio in City Hall.\n“It is by the grace of God that we don’t have dead officers today,” according to Shea, who said all officers were targeted, regardless of race or gender.\nThe mayor, meanwhile, blamed the violence on “a very small number” of people who “literally and specifically meant to insight violence,” and announced the launching of an independent probe to review actions by protesters — and cops.\n“I’ve seen some videos that don’t reflect the values of the NYPD,” de Blasio said. “There needs to be accountability.”\nAttacks on cops “poisoned the whole atmosphere,” he continued. “That does not for a moment take away from the fact that the NYPD has to do better.\nOne troubling video posted to Twitter shows an officer shoving a woman to the ground near the Barclays Center.\n“We are going to have an individual review to look at each and every incident like that,” the mayor said.\n“We can not see a video like that … there will be accountability,” he added. “There will be accountability also on the side of the protesters, I assure you, but we have to keep people’s faith the NYPD is here to protect them. Period.”\nShea conceded that there is no excuse to throw “a peaceful protester to the ground.”\nBut, he continued, “it is very difficult to practice de-escalation when you’re having a brick thrown at your head.”\nAt least 200 people were arrested, the commissioner said. An exact tally was not immediately available.\nMore demonstrations are planned Saturday throughout the city.\n“This is a dangerous situation, and any and all violence will be denounced,” Shea said. “We remain fully committed to supporting the right to publicly assemble. Protest and free speech is at the heart of everything we believe in.”\nHe continued: “At the same time, we will have zero tolerance for looking to cause harm to anyone.”}}
{{▶ Watch Video: Climate scientists gravely concerned about a second Trump term\nDemocratic presidential nominee Joe Biden announced his intent to have the U.S. rejoin the Paris climate agreement if he wins the White House. The Trump administration officially dropped out of the accord on Wednesday, becoming the first country to ever withdraw from an international climate change pact.\nIn response, Biden, who has his own climate change agenda, signaled the exodus would end the day he enters office.\n“Today, the Trump Administration officially left the Paris Climate Agreement,” Biden tweeted. “And in exactly 77 days, a Biden Administration will rejoin it.”\nToday, the Trump Administration officially left the Paris Climate Agreement. And in exactly 77 days, a Biden Administration will rejoin it. https://t.co/L8UJimS6v2 — Joe Biden (@JoeBiden) November 5, 2020\nBiden laid out his plan to tackle climate change and add new green jobs in the U.S. last year. His administration would re-enter the Paris climate agreement and “use every tool of American foreign policy to push the rest of the world to raise their ambitions alongside with the United States.” He also said the U.S. would pursue strong measures to stop other countries from “cheating” on their climate commitments.\nMr. Trump has championed the fossil fuel industry, questioned the science of climate change and weakened other environmental protections. The move to leave the Paris agreement isolates the United States but has no immediate impact on international efforts to curb global warming.\nThe 2015 Paris climate accord is a global pact forged to avert the threat of catastrophic climate change. Some 189 countries remain committed to the agreement, which aims to keep the increase in average temperatures worldwide “well below” 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit).\nThe Paris accord requires countries to set their own voluntary targets for reducing greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide. The only binding requirement is that nations accurately report on their efforts.\nThe Associated Press contributed to this report.}}
{{The vast explosion that devastated the city of Beirut was felt as far away as Cyprus. But the psychological impact of the blast will be felt even further still.\nThe Lebanese capital has symbolic importance across the Mediterranean and Middle East far exceeding its modest size. It is still looked to by many as their Paris, and a place where, for all its faults, life can be lived with a little bit more freedom.\nThis matters deeply in a region in which millions live under the same burdens of poverty, corruption and oppression that drove the string of revolutions that gripped the world a decade ago. Since then the grasp of autocratic leaders desperate never to see a repeat has tightened, often with the tacit assent of European leaders for whom the overriding priorities are predictability and the co-operation of local forces to prevent migration.\nWorld leaders were quick to pledge support to Lebanon in the wake of the disaster. This reflects genuine shock and desire to help, as well as pragmatic interest in preventing the country collapsing under the strain of the disaster on top of the pandemic and a devastating economic crisis that hasd already crippled the country.\nRussia announced it would send planes of humanitarian aid, as did Egypt. The European Union offered its Copernicus satellite mapping technology to help local emergency responders navigate the devastated cityscape, and began to co-ordinate member states to send firefighters and search dogs. Offers even came from Israel, with which Lebanon is still technically at war.\nBut perhaps the most striking announcement came from France. Within hours of the disaster, a plane of Marseille navy firefighters and equipment was in the air, and president Emmanuel Macron announced he would shortly be following them himself.\nThe presence of the French leader is a significant statement both of France’s ties with its former protectorate, and its ambitions to continue to project its influence as a geopolitical power.\nThe powers offering aid to Lebanon are familiar players in a deepening rift over resources and influence in the Mediterranean.\nIn recent months the stand-off has been focused on Libya, which has been blighted by instability and warring factions since the Nato-backed overthrow of its eccentric dictator Muammar Gadafy in 2011.\nFor years the European Union’s priorities in the country had been largely limited to paying its coast guard to stop boats of migrants crossing the Mediterranean.\nBackdoor support\nHere’s why that changed, in a nutshell. Russia, Egypt, and the United Arab Emirates supported an attempt by rogue general and hopeful autocrat Khalifa Haftar to replace the official interim government. France, though it denies it, offered backdoor support too.\nThis prompted Turkey to intervene on the side of the government. Ankara successfully turned the tide against Haftar, and is now using its presence to solidify influence and further its ambitions to tap gas reserves in the Mediterranean.\nThat got the attention of Brussels. Suddenly it faced a major new front in its rivalry with Turkey, a power with which it is in constant contention over its pursuit of gas reserves off Cyprus, and control of migration flows through Bulgaria and Greece.\nThe current European Commission has the self-stated aim of being “geopolitical”, in the sense of exerting influence and pursuing its interests in the world. It is unclear whether the clashing interests of member states, as well as their dubious commitment to the idea, will allow for this.\nThe funding the EU uses to support and influence external states has been repeatedly cut in recent budgets. In the deal reached last month between EU governments, a proposed €5.5 billion for spending in the bloc’s “neighbourhood” was axed altogether.\nSome influential voices within the EU are looking for alternatives. The former Swedish prime minister Carl Bildt, and the EU foreign affairs chief’s special adviser Nathalie Tocci, are among the figures who have aired proposals for the bloc to deploy “boots on the ground” in Libya. Both acknowledged the proposal would struggle to gain the required support, but suggested resurrecting the bloc’s mothballed rapid-intervention “battlegroups” was needed to realise EU power in the world.\nThis week, the crisis is an explosion, which early reports indicate was caused by the unsafe storage of a stockpile of the chemical ammonium nitrate. The consequences in a state that is a perennial theatre for conflict, and already mired in economic turmoil, are unpredictable.\nPandemics too have a track record in shaping the course of history. Covid-19 has loaded onto fragile states a challenge that they may not be able to deal with. Underlying conditions resemble the situation prior to the so-called Arab Spring, with the main differences being that those who want change are perhaps more desperate and bitter, and the region is now more militarised.\nThis week is a taste of the unpredictability that may lie ahead along Europe’s Mediterranean edge, and the difficulty the bloc is likely to have in dealing with it.}}
{{Currently Reading\nAlert: Lebanese Health Minister Hassan Hamad says more than 25 people dead, over 2,500 injured in the Beirut explosion}}
{{This is the shocking explosion that rocked Beirut, Lebanon on Tuesday (August 4) at approximately 6 pm local time, as local officials expect upwards of hundreds of casualties.\nShocking explosion in Beirut as hundreds feared dead}}
{{Jimmy Kimmel has shared a powerful message about the death of George Floyd, calling for ‘disgusting’ Donald Trump to be voted out of office.\nThe talk show host shared his thoughts on Floyd’s tragic death, after a police officer, Derek Chauvin, knelt on the US man’s neck for eight minutes while he cried out: ‘I can’t breathe’.\nChauvin has now been arrested.\nRiots erupted in cities across America after Floyd’s death, while President Trump caused widespread outrage by tweeting: ‘These THUGS are dishonoring the memory of George Floyd, and I won’t let that happen.\n‘Just spoke to Governor Tim Walz and told him that the Military is with him all the way. Any difficulty and we will assume control but, when the looting starts, the shooting starts. Thank you!’\nJimmy explained in a video: ‘Unfortunately, this is the loop we get stuck in: It goes from “it isn’t right to kill an unarmed man” to “it also isn’t right to loot and set fires and attack the police, too.”‘\nAn officer knelt on Floyd’s neck for more than eight minutes (Picture: AP)\nHe added: ‘Last night there were senseless acts of violence that were brought on by a senseless act of violence. And it just keeps going in a loop.\nAdvertisement\nAdvertisement\n‘So last night, the anger is getting more intense. The police are gone. Fire trucks can’t even get to the area to stop the flames. It’s a very bad situation.’\nJimmy went on to say: ‘And our disgusting excuse for a President, Mr. Tough Guy, Donnie Bone Spurs decides, “I know what I’ll do. I’ll make this worse.” At one o’clock in the morning, instead of trying to make peace, Donald Trump makes a threat. A violent threat.’\nReading out Trump’s tweet, Jimmy continued: ‘Our President is threatening to order the military to shoot Americans. Specifically black Americans.\nTrump declared that ‘when the looting starts, the shooting starts’ (Picture: Twitter)\n‘And then of course today, as he often does when he says something idiotic, he tried to reel that in. He claimed he was saying he didn’t want that to happen. It was a warning, not a warning warning. But a warning. The sad thing about how much he lies is, he isn’t even good at it.’\nHe pointed out that the institutional racism in the USA isn’t purely down to Trump, and black people have been experiencing it for years.\n‘I don’t want to make this about Donald Trump. Because this sense of hopelessness and frustration that black people in this country have been experiencing has been brewing for a long time,’ he said.\n‘And not just under Republican presidents. Or even white presidents. This is not on the government. It’s on us.’\nJimmy called on people to vote Trump out of office (Picture: Jimmy Kimmel Live)\nJimmy went on to ask: ‘Is this who you want leading us? A President who clearly and intentionally inflames violence in the middle of a riot? To show how tough he is?’\nAdvertisement\nAdvertisement\n‘A commander-in-chief who threatens to put members of our military, our national guardsmen and women, in the position of having to shoot a fellow American on sight? I don’t care what you are. Right, left, Republican, Democrat. I can’t imagine that there are many of us who want that.\n‘Enough is enough. We gotta vote this guy out already. And we need to work on this problem we have. This blatant double standard. Because when you stand in front of the flag, you put your hand on your heart and pledge allegiance ‘with liberty and justice for all.’ We don’t have that for all. I mean I have it. A lot of you have it. But it’s not for all.’\nJimmy’s certainly not the only star to have spoken out after George’s tragic death, with the likes of Snoop Dogg, Justin Bieber, Cardi B, Oprah Winfrey and Jamie Foxx addressing the situation and taking action.\nMany have also donated to causes including Floyd’s memorial fund, and the Minneapolis Freedom Fund.\nGot a story?\nIf you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.\nAdvertisement\nMORE: The Beckhams are ‘building secret escape tunnel’ from their home over burglar fears\nMORE: Dolly Parton addresses continued fight for female equality 40 years after 9 to 5 in new documentary}}
{{Firefighters extinguish flames at nearby damaged buildings following a large explosion at the Port of Beirut in Lebanon Tuesday. The massive explosion rocked the capital and its suburbs, sending a huge mushroom cloud into the skyline. Hasan Shaban | Bloomberg via Getty Images\nA huge explosion rocked Beirut Tuesday, shattering windows and damaging buildings across a wide swath of the city. The blast sent a huge mushroom cloud into the sky, seemingly emanating from a spot where a fire had been burning.\nThe dramatic explosion was caught on numerous eyewitness videos, as people had been filming the fire that was burning at an industrial port in Lebanon's capital.\nThe extent of the casualties caused by the blast wasn't immediately clear. The Lebanese Red Cross says it is receiving "thousands of calls" on its emergency line, and implored people to use the line "only for critical and severe cases."\nEarly reports suggest the explosion came from a large fireworks warehouse. Some of the video recordings show what looked to be flashes of smaller explosions before the large blast.\n"Residents in the city's upmarket Christian majority neighborhood, Gemmayzeh told NPR almost every building looked damaged by the explosion," NPR's Ruth Sherlock reports.\nPhotos from the aftermath show emergency crews tending to people with a range of injuries, including many who were cut by flying glass.\nLebanon's state news agency NNA say the explosion followed a fire at the Beirut Port. It adds that the explosions "reverberated in the capital and the suburbs, and left behind great damages to the surrounding buildings and a considerable number of wounded."\nEvacuations are underway in the area, the agency added.\nThis is a developing story.}}
{{Several ministers had already stepped down from their posts in the aftermath of the devastating blast.\nPerri Huggins is an editor in Morocco World News.\nRabat – Prime Minister Hassan Diab announced on Monday the resignation of Lebanon’s government in the wake of the Beirut explosion.\nDiab attributed the August 4 blast, which killed at least 163 and wounded nearly 6,000, to endemic corruption.\n“Today we follow the will of the people in their demand to hold accountable those responsible for the disaster that has been in hiding for seven years, and their desire for real change,” he said in a speech this evening.\nMany blame government dysfunction for the disaster, which reinvigorated the Lebanese people’s calls to end debilitating corruption.\nOver 2,000 tons of highly explosive ammonium nitrate were stored for six years without proper supervision at the Beirut port.\nFollowing months of mounting unrest and protests due to poor governance and economic crisis, the country’s troubles came to a head with the explosion.\nProtestors stormed ministries over the weekend, which saw violent clashes between demonstrators and security services.\nSeveral ministers stepped down as protests raged on, prior to the prime minister’s announcement.\nAfter one-third of his cabinet resigned, Diab himself was forced to announce he would yield his post.\nDiab had announced on Saturday his intention to urge early elections. On Sunday, Lebanon’s ministers of information and environment resigned.\nMinister of Justice Marie-Claude Najm resigned on Monday. Reports suggest Finance Minister Ghazi Wazni was also preparing his resignation.\nLebanon’s current cabinet assumed their positions in January with the country already embroiled in crisis.\nFollowing last week’s disaster, many Lebanese are insisting on a larger government overhaul. The resignation of cabinet members will not suffice given the severe shortcomings of Lebanon’s government, evident in the negligence that led to the blast, anti-government protestors say.\nThe explosion displaced at least 300,000 people, and Beirut residents are living in homes with shattered doors and windows.\nThe city’s infrastructure also took a hard hit, with two main water and electricity stations sustaining significant damage.\nAlthough 163 deaths have been reported, Beirut governor Marwan Abboud said the death toll has reached 220, with 110 still missing, according to al-Marsad.\nLebanon’s cabinet declared a two-week state of emergency on August 5.}}
{{SITUATION OVERVIEW\nIn the early evening of August 4, explosions flattened a significant portion of Beirut, Lebanon, suspected to be the result of ammonium nitrate catching fire. The blast engulfed the entire port area adjacent to the downtown core of Beirut, damaging residences and businesses, and overwhelming hospitals already struggling in the coronavirus pandemic. Witnesses reported feeling the blast in nearby countries.\nThe unexpected explosion and coronavirus pandemic exacerbate underlying economic and political strife. Lebanon’s economic crisis has shifted its traditional agricultural inputs, meaning Lebanon is now a net importer of food.\nAbout half of the country is unemployed and dependent on food assistance. The port of Beirut is currently unusable, and the national food stock is reportedly low. Supply chains remain open through Tripoli to the north, but this blow to infrastructure limits access to critical markets for those most affected by the explosion.\nThe blast destroyed more than $600,000 in humanitarian relief items Lutheran World Relief had supplied partners, as they waited in the port. Lebanon’s role as host country to refugees has put added burden on food and public systems. The outlook for Lebanon is dire if coordinated action is not undertaken now.}}
{{Treat yourself to current Conservative News and Commentary conveniently delivered all in one site, right to your computer doorstep.\nNotice: JavaScript is required for this content.}}
{{Welcome to The Spinoff’s live updates for November 6, covering all the latest from the US election along with New Zealand news, updated throughout the day. See the latest results on an interactive US map here. Reach me on stewart@thespinoff.co.nz\nThe day ahead:\n11am: Cabinet is being sworn in at a ceremony at government house.\nCabinet is being sworn in at a ceremony at government house. 1pm: We’ll have the usual Covid-19 update.\nWe’ll have the usual Covid-19 update. 2pm: The results of the special votes in the NZ election will be released today, revealing the official outcome of the referendums and the shape of the next government.\nThe results of the special votes in the NZ election will be released today, revealing the official outcome of the referendums and the shape of the next government. 3.30pm: The PM will hold a media conference at parliament to comment on the special results.\nThe PM will hold a media conference at parliament to comment on the special results. The US election results will continue to roll in today. It’s possible we will have a preliminary result this afternoon.\n8.25am: Trump still claiming he has won election, issues bizarre press statement\nWe’re used to seeing an all-caps tweet from the incumbent president, but today Donald Trump has issued a bizarre, one-line press statement claiming he should already have won the president.\n“IF YOU COUNT THE LEGAL VOTES, I EASILY WIN THE ELECTION! IF YOU COUNT THE ILLEGAL AND LATE VOTES, THEY CAN STEAL THE ELECTION FROM US!” Trump said.\nThe press statement is so unusual, even Fox news had to clarify that it indeed was not a tweet.\nIt followed lawsuit by the Trump campaign trying to stop the count of legally cast votes in several states, and a series of tweets in which Trump called for vote-counting to stop.\nSTOP THE COUNT! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 5, 2020\n8.00am: Trump lawsuits dismissed in Michigan, Georgia\nLawsuits initiated by the Trump campaign to try and halt vote counting have been dismissed in two states.\nAs CNN reports, Michigan judge Cynthia Stephens was highly skeptical throughout a virtual hearing about the lack of admissible evidence in the case and whether the campaign had sued the right party. Meanwhile, a judge in Georgia has dismissed a lawsuit by Republicans to stop “unlawful counting of ballots received after the election” in Savannah.\nHow the numbers are looking – Nevada could decide presidency\nGood morning, here’s a look at the numbers today. To be honest, it’s not looking a lot different to yesterday.\nAccording to the AP, Joe Biden is ahead on 264 electoral college votes, just six away from winning the presidency. Some networks, such as CNN, have Biden slightly lower than this on 253. Donald Trump is behind on 214 – but with some key states still be decided, it is too early to call the outcome just yet.\nIn Nevada, Biden’s lead has gone up from 7,647 to more than 11,000.\nCheck out our live election counter here\n7.40am: Top stories from The Bulletin\nIf you’re hoping for a decisive update to the US election count overnight, bad news – it’s still on a knife edge. At the early morning time of writing, and according to the New York Times, Joe Biden had 253 electoral college votes in the bag, compared to 214 for Donald Trump – 270 is the magic number that puts a candidate over the top.\nIn terms of the key states,Pennsylvania is currently still showing a narrow lead for Trump, with full results not expected until at least tomorrow. Many of the remaining mail-in ballots to be counted are expected to favour Biden. Trump is looking likely to hang on in Georgia by a few thousand votes. Arizona has been un-called somewhat, and could still be in play for Trump. Nevada is leaning Biden and North Carolina is leaning Trump. There are various scenarios from here, but in short just Arizona and Nevada together, or Pennsylvania alone, would give Biden the win.\nWhat has been notable in the last day has been the rapid emergence of post-election politics, with questions over the count itself now crucial for deciding the winner. The New York Times reports protests have broken out across the country, with Democrat-leaning protests demanding that every vote be counted, and Republican-leaning protests at times demanding the counts stop, or demanding access to observe the count. The impetus for these competing demands is based on the situation on the ground, and the urgings of Trump, as this excerpt shows:\nMr. Trump claimed early on Wednesday that he had won the election long before key states had counted all their ballots. He spent much of the day asserting, without evidence, that people were trying to “steal” the election from him and cast doubt on the legitimacy of the many ballots sent through the mail because of the coronavirus pandemic.\nRead more and subscribe to The Bulletin here\n7.30am: Yesterday’s headlines\nThe US election remained on a knife-edge, with Joe Biden’s position improving as early votes continued to be counted.\nThe US withdrew from the Paris Agreement on climate change mitigation, a year to the day since the Trump administration gave a formal notice of its intention to do so. Joe Biden has pledged to rejoin should he be elected president.\nTwo new cases of Covid-19 were announced, both in managed isolation facilities.\nThe wage subsidy and small business loan schemes will be extended over Christmas, the government announced.\nVoters declining to party vote National is preventing the party from having a more diverse caucus, leader Judith Collins claimed in a radio interview.\nRead yesterday’s live updates here.}}
{{Video\nDr Marie Eid has told the BBC the hospital where she works in Beirut has been badly damaged, and that "it was a truly very, very traumatic experience."\nHospital staff were forced to transform the car park into an emergency ward, as more and more injured people arrived for urgent treatment.\nLebanon's President Michel Aoun said the blast was caused by 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate stored unsafely in a warehouse.\nRead more: Port officials under house arrest as rescue efforts continue}}
{{EMBED >More News Videos A massive explosion shook Lebanon's capital Beirut on Tuesday, wounding a number of people and causing widespread damage.\nEMBED >More News Videos CNN reports on damage to its own bureau in Lebanon after an explosion rocked the Lebanese capital Tuesday.\nEMBED >More News Videos Video shot from a distance shows the aftermath of an explosion in Beirut on Aug. 4.\nBEIRUT -- A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. At least 50 people were killed and 2,700 injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.Hours later, ambulances still carried away the wounded as army helicopters helped battle fires raging at the port.The sudden devastation overwhelmed a country already struggling with both the coronavirus pandemic and an economic crisis: Beirut hospitals quickly filled beyond capacity, pleading for blood supplies and generators to keep their lights on.The cause of the blast, which sparked fires, overturned cars and blew out windows and doors, was not immediately known.Abbas Ibrahim, chief of Lebanese General Security, said it might have been caused by highly explosive material that was confiscated from a ship some time ago and stored at the port. Local television channel LBC said the material was sodium nitrate.Witnesses reported seeing a strange orange-colored cloud over the site after the explosion. Orange clouds of toxic nitrogen dioxide gas often accompany an explosion involving nitrates.An Israeli government official said Israel "had nothing to do" with the blast. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter with the media. Israeli officials usually do not comment on "foreign reports."The blast was stunning even for a city that has seen civil war, suicide bombings and bombardment by Israel. It could be heard and felt as far away as Cyprus, more than 200 kilometers (180 miles) across the Mediterranean."It was a real horror show. I haven't seen anything like that since the days of the (civil) war," said Marwan Ramadan, who was about 500 meters (yards) from the port and was knocked off his feet by the force of the explosion.Health Minister Hassan Hamad said the preliminary toll was 25 dead and more than 2,500 wounded. Emergency teams streamed in from across Lebanon to help, and injured had to be taken to hospitals outside the capital.Some of those injured lay on the ground at the port, Associated Press staff at the scene said. A civil defense official said there were still bodies inside the port, many under debris.Beirut's governor, Marwan Abboud, broke into tears as he toured the site, saying, "Beirut is a devastated city."Initially, video taken by residents showed a fire raging at the port, sending up a giant column of smoke, illuminated by flashes of what appear to be fireworks. Local TV stations reported that a fireworks warehouse was involved.The fire then appeared to catch at a nearby building, triggering a more massive explosion, sending up a mushroom cloud and a shock wave.Charbel Haj, who works at the port, said it started as small explosions like firecrackers. Then, he said, he was thrown off his feet by the huge blast. His clothes were torn.Miles from the port, building facades were shredded, balconies were knocked down and windows shattered. Streets were covered with glass and bricks and lined with wrecked cars. Motorcyclists picked their way through traffic, carrying the injured.One woman covered in blood from the waist up walked down a trashed street while talking furiously on her phone. On another street, a woman with a bloodied face looked distraught, staggering through traffic with two friends at her side."This country is cursed," a young man passing by muttered.The blast came at a time when Lebanon's economy is facing collapse from the financial crisis and the coronavirus restrictions. Many have lost jobs, while the worth of their savings has evaporated as the currency has plunged in value against the dollar. The result has thrown many into poverty.It also occurred amid rising tensions between Israel and the militant Hezbollah group along Lebanon's southern border.The explosion was reminiscent of massive blasts during Lebanon's civil war and took place only three days before a U.N.-backed tribunal was set to give its verdict in the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in a truck bombing more than 15 years ago. That explosion, with a ton of explosives, was felt miles away, just like Tuesday's explosion.Several of Beirut's hospitals were damaged in the blast. Roum Hospital put out a call for people to bring it spare generators to keep its electricity going as it evacuated patients because of heavy damage.Outside the St. George University Hospital in Beirut's Achrafieh neighborhood, people with various injuries arrived in ambulances, in cars and on foot. The explosion had caused major damage inside the building and knocked out the electricity at the hospital. Dozens of injured were being treated on the spot on the street outside, on stretchers and wheelchairs."This is a catastrophe we have on our hands," said one doctor, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to make press statements.}}
{{NEW YORK/WASHINGTON -- Former U.S. Vice President Joe Biden took a major step forward in the 2020 presidential election Wednesday with wins in Michigan and Wisconsin, two of the three key battleground states.\nBoth are typically blue states President Donald Trump flipped from the Democrats in 2016 when he defeated former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.\nThe two wins put Biden on the verge of clinching a victory, even without a decision in the third battleground state of Pennsylvania. But Trump still has a narrow path for a comeback if he can take the smaller states of Arizona and Nevada. Those states will be opening more votes Thursday.\nThe president's campaign is calling on the U.S. Supreme Court to halt vote counting in Pennsylvania and is asking for a recount in Wisconsin.\nNikkei Asia is following the results live. For all our coverage on the election, visit our U.S. Elections 2020 page.\nAt least 270 out of 538 Electoral College votes are needed to win the U.S. presidency. States outlined in yellow are key swing states.\nHere are some of our best stories, hand-picked for you.\nThese are the latest developments (U.S. Eastern time):\nThursday, Nov. 5\n4:10 p.m. The nail-biting 2020 U.S. presidential election has been one of a kind. But it has also exposed the dangers that democracy is facing. Nikkei Washington bureau chief Mikio Sugeno writes that Trump's early declaration of victory and undermining of votes come straight from the authoritarian playbook of the likes of Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping.\n2:20 p.m. Kathy Boockvar, Pennsylvania's secretary of state, tells CNN that the state's winner "definitely could" be announced by the end of the day. "Counties are furiously at work, and it is looking like we're ahead of schedule," she said.\nAs of Thursday afternoon, Trump leads the state count by 108,772 votes with 92% of estimated votes reported. While the president is ahead by 50.2% to 48.5%, the gap has reduced significantly. If Biden succeeds in flipping the state, which Clinton lost in 2016, he will reach the goal line of 270 Electoral College with the single state.\n1:45 p.m. A Michigan judge dismisses the Trump campaign's lawsuit over whether enough Republican challengers had access to vote counting facilities handling absentee ballots.\nAn election personnel examines a ballot as vote counting in the general election continues at State Farm Arena in Atlanta, Georgia on Nov. 4. © AP\n1:20 p.m. A breakdown of the remaining votes in Georgia, posted on social media by a reporter based locally, shows a large portion of ballots in urban areas. Of the 61,367 absentee ballots yet to be counted, 17,000 are in Chatham (which includes Savannah), 11,200 in Fulton (which includes Atlanta) and 7,338 in Gwinnett (just outside Atlanta). Trump currently leads Biden by 13,540, but the geography favors the Democrat.\n12:09 p.m. Nevada restarts vote counting. Biden expands his lead to 12,042 from 7,647, putting the race at 49.5% to 48.5%.\n11:00 a.m. Will Trump facilitate a peaceful transition of power if Biden were to win? His former chief of staff says he should.\n"I recommend that he accept a peaceful transition of power, which I think he would do absolutely anyway," Mick Mulvaney said on CNBC Thursday morning.\nThen-White House Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney attends a lunch for ambassadors to the U.N. Security Council at the White House in December 2019. © Reuters\n"Look, the president is a fighter, there's no question about it, and you'll see him fighting down to the very last," Mulvaney said.\nBut "at the end of that process, [if] Joe Biden's the president, you can absolutely guarantee a peaceful transition of power. I just hope the same is true on the other side," he said.\n10:25 a.m. The two candidates start the morning with two opposing messages. Biden tweets that "Every vote must be counted."\nPresident Trump, in all caps, tweets "STOP THE COUNT!" and reiterates that any vote that came in after election day "WILL NOT BE COUNTED!"\n10:20 a.m. The post-election rally continues on the New York Stock Exchange. The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed over 600 points, marking the fourth day of gains. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq are also up more than 2% in morning trading.\n8:00 a.m. Michigan may not have been as razor thin as expected. After more counting, Biden leads Trump by 50.6% to 47.8%. An analyst points out that the margin is 12 times larger than Trump's margin over Hillary Clinton in 2016.\n7:40 a.m. As of Thursday morning, here are how the votes stand in the states still counting. Biden need to win two of these states, or one if Pennsylvania.\nPennsylvania (20 electoral votes, 89% of estimated votes reported): Trump 50.7% Biden 48.1% (Difference 164,414 votes)\nGeorgia (16 electoral votes, 96% reported): Trump 49.6% Biden 49.2% (Difference 18,540 votes)\nNorth Carolina (15 electoral votes, 95% reported) : Trump 50.1% Biden 48.7% (Difference 76,737 votes)\nArizona (11 electoral votes, 86% reported): Biden 50.5% Trump 48.1% (Difference 68,390 votes)\nNevada (6 electoral votes, 86% reported): Biden 49.3% Trump 48.7% (Difference 7,647 votes)\n5:24 a.m. Duong Hoai Nam, vice spokesperson at the Vietnamese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, says at a news conference regarding the impact of the election on bilateral relations: "We believe that every U.S. president will support" efforts by both countries to continue promoting and expanding them.\n5:00 a.m. Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Le Yucheng has said he hopes the next U.S. administration will work with Beijing to mend ties, while a columnist for the Communist Party mouthpiece Global Times called the American election a "farce." We've wrapped up some of the reactions from across Asia.\n4:00 a.m. The race for Arizona's 11 electoral votes remains tense.\nAlthough FOX called the state for Biden on election night -- reportedly infuriating the Trump campaign -- and AP later followed, the New York Times calculates that the president still has a shot. The next release from a key Phoenix county where Trump was cutting into Biden's lead, however, is not expected until Thursday evening.\nTrump supporters rallied outside the county's election office earlier tonight, with some of them carrying guns, according to Reuters. In stark contrast to other states, where Team Trump wanted counting halted, they demanded that the tabulations continue.\nSupporters of U.S. President Donald Trump demand that all votes be counted outside the Maricopa County Tabulation and Election Center in Phoenix, Arizona, on Nov. 4. © Reuters\n1:50 a.m. Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-Wen has posted a message on her Facebook page, offering her people three assurances:\n1) That her government will closely monitor the Taiwan Strait situation and maintain domestic political and economic stability.\n2) That Taiwan will continue close exchanges with U.S. Republicans and Democrats alike.\n3) That she has confidence that "supporting Taiwan" is the mainstream consensus in the U.S.\n1:30 a.m. In Thailand, the chairman of the Federation of Thai Industries is hopeful that a Biden win would ease tensions between the U.S. and China -- with knock-on benefits for his country, the region and the world economy.\nFTI Chairman Supant Mongkolsuthree tells Nikkei Asia that although the trade war will not end immediately, "we still believe that the trade and investment outlook would be better and world trade would get back to normal, which is good for every country." But he says Thailand would be closely watching Biden's policies on the environment and human rights, wary that these issues could become nontariff trade barriers that "disrupt Thai exports in the future."\n12:45 a.m. The next update on Georgia is likely to come when the secretary of state there briefs the press at 10:30 a.m., according to a CNN correspondent, who notes there were about 90,000 outstanding ballots at last count.\n12:30 a.m. In Indonesia, Trump's premature victory claim in the early hours of Wednesday gave some a feeling of deja vu.\nTrump's speech "is actually not too surprising for Indonesia because Prabowo had done that, too," Kompas TV executive producer Aiman Witjaksono said earlier on a talk show, referring to Prabowo Subianto's claims and accusations of fraud after two bitterly fought races he lost to President Joko Widodo.\nMeanwhile, Indonesia's former ambassador to the U.S., Dino Patti Djalal, is hopeful that bilateral relations would improve under a Biden administration.\n"Biden is an international relations expert" Djalal notes, citing his experience as a senator and vice president. "That is different from Trump, who had dealt with businesses all the time before he became the president."\n12:15 a.m. As "Election Day" drags into yet another day, tentative reactions from around Asia continue to trickle in.\nIndia's foreign secretary, Harsh Vardhan Shringla, tells Germany's DW News that his country's ties with the U.S. can withstand any election outcome.\n"Our relations with the United States are really based on bipartisan support -- you see it in Congress, you see it at the public levels," he said. He acknowledged that Trump and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi developed a "special" rapport, but stressed Modi had a good relationship with former President Barack Obama and that Biden clearly "values a strong India-U.S. strategic partnership."\nWednesday, Nov. 4\n11:40 p.m. Pennsylvania's secretary of state, Kathy Boockvar, has told U.S. media that the swing state is on track to finish counting its remaining ballots by Thursday local time.\n11:20 p.m. Tensions flared in New York earlier tonight, after protesters took to the streets to demand that all ballots be counted. Demonstrators also chanted Black Lives Matter slogans, and sporadic clashes with police resulted in arrests.\n10:45 p.m. The race in Georgia is tightening. Trump now leads Biden by fewer than 32,000 votes, according to figures from the New York Times, which has pointed out that most of the remaining ballots are from counties that lean Democratic.\n10:20 p.m. Speaking to media, Biden said he was confident of winning Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.\n"Democracy is the heartbeat of this nation," he said. "When the count is finished, we believe we will be the winners.\n"Every vote must be counted. No one is going to take our democracy away from us. Not now, not ever."\n10:06 p.m. Biden's running mate, Kamala Harris, is also calling for the electoral rules to be followed.\n10:04 p.m. Japan's equity benchmark Nikkei Stock Average topped the 24,000 line for the first time in more than nine months with investors buying semiconductor and other tech stocks after a rally in Wall Street. However, the index struggled to maintain the momentum and quickly lost steam as the election outcome remains unclear and the Trump campaign's lawsuits weighing heavy on market sentiment.\n9:53 p.m. In an interview with CNN Philippines, President Duterte's spokesperson Harry Roque was asked about the impact of the US presidential election's outcome on ties between the countries. Roque said he expects no major changes in relations with the U.S. but acknowledged "personal relations" between Duterte and Trump.\n"And even of there is a new president, I am not saying that there will be, but in case there is a new president of the United States in the person of Senator Biden, I am confident that the resident can also developed close personal friendship with Mr. Biden," Roque said. "May the best man win as of now."\n9:21 p.m. Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen said Wednesday that Taiwan would respect the U.S. people's choice of the leader, and would do whatever Taiwan can to continue to seek strong support from the U.S. "Currently, we see strong and solid support for Taiwan from U.S. mainstream public opinions, and we will continue to deepen that trend of engagement and support."\nA spokesperson said on Thursday morning that Taiwan's presidential office has closely monitored the developments of the vote counts and would not comment on other country's internal affairs.\n9:19 p.m. Following the tech-stock rally in the U.S., markets across Asia rose on Thursday morning. Japan's Nikkei Stock Average climbed 1.2% while Hong Kong's Hang Seng index jumped over 2%. China and Australia's benchmarks also rose over 1%, and South Korea's Kospi is up 1.6%.\nInvestors speculate a scenario where the Republican party maintains a majority in the Senate, which will make the U.S. government less likely to impose tighter regulations.\n8:46 p.m. The AP corrects its story on the Trump campaign's legal challenge in Georgia. The campaign has filed suit asking a judge to order Georgia election officials to follow the law on storing and counting absentee ballots, not on having Georgia pause the vote count.\n8:44 p.m. On the day the U.S. officially withdraws from the Paris climate accord, Biden reiterates his pledge to rejoin it as soon as he takes office. His green policies could send ripples through Asia.\n8:05 p.m. The Nikkei 225 stock index gains 1.06% on Thursday morning on expectations that the Republicans are likely to keep control of the Senate. Semiconductor manufacturers and tech related-stocks are surging in Tokyo on speculation regulations on the U.S. tech industry will not be as tough as in a Senate controlled by the Democrats.\n7:42 p.m. Trump has tweeted a couple of times in the past hour, citing Breitbart News.\n7:42 p.m. Trump campaign files lawsuit in Georgia -- the third state in which it is making a legal challenge -- as its seeks to pause the vote count in key battlegrounds.\n7:05 p.m. All eyes on whether Republican lawmakers distance themselves from the president. Rep. Adam Kinzinger of Illinois replied to Trump on Twitter in harsh language. "Stop. Full stop. The votes will be counted and you will either win or lose. And America will accept that."\nIf similar voices spread among the GOP, Trump will face an uphill battle.\n6:10 p.m. As Trump claims victory in states that are still counting their votes, Biden supporters congregate in New York's Bryant Park with "Count Every Vote" signs.\n(Photo by Saqib Tanveer)\n(Photo by Saqib Tanveer)\nA person speaks on a stage as labor union activists rally at a park near the White House the day after the 2020 U.S. presidential election in Washington on Nov. 4. © Reuters\n5:53 p.m. Biden has won the most votes out of any candidate in history, according a tally from The AP.\nThe former vice president has gained over 70 million votes nationwide as of Wednesday afternoon, surpassing the 69.4 million votes former President Barack Obama won in 2008.\nPeople call for the counting of every vote at New York's Bryant Park. (Photo by Saqib Tanveer)\n5:00 p.m. Twitter again adds a disclaimer to the president's tweet. "Some or all of the content shared in this Tweet is disputed and might be misleading about an election or other civic process," it wrote.\n4:57 p.m. Trump tweets that he is claiming Pennsylvania, Michigan, Georgia and North Carolina.\n4:17 p.m. CNN calls Michigan for Biden, giving him two of the three most crucial swing states. With the win, Biden needs only Arizona's 11 votes and Nevada's six votes to reach the 270 electoral college votes needed for victory.\n4:10 p.m. Biden makes a brief statement in Wilmington, Delaware, appearing on stage with vice president candidate Sen. Kamala Harris.\nDemocratic presidential candidate former Vice President Joe Biden takes off his face mask as he arrives to speak in Wilmington, Delaware on Nov. 4. © AP\n"I'm not here to declare that we've won, but I am here to report, when the count is finished, we believe we will be the winners," Biden says.\n"Now, every vote must be counted," he said. "No one's going to take our democracy away from us, not now, not ever."\nU.S. recount law is governed by state law, and in Wisconsin "the rules are quite liberal, in the sense that any aggrieved candidate can bring a petition for a recount," said Rebecca Green, co-director of the Election Law Program at William & Mary Law School.\nIn Michigan, where the Trump campaign has filed suit to demand observer access to counting locations and that officials halt the count until such access is given, "there's an easy fix, which is just to give them access," Green said.\n"But the idea that that could translate to stopping the count or the count being declared illegal does not have a basis in law," she added.\n4:02 p.m. The post-Election-Day rally on the New York Stock Exchange saw the Dow Jones Industrial Average close 367 points, or 1.35%, higher at 27,847.66, marking three consecutive days of gains. The Dow rose over 800 points at one point. The wider S&P and the tech heavy Nasdaq rose 2.2% and 3.9% respectively.\nThe market is rife with speculation over a Biden presidency, a Republican Senate and a Democratic House.\n4:00 p.m. The Trump campaign is requesting the U.S. Supreme Court to intervene in the vote counting at a key battleground state, saying "Bad things are happening in Pennsylvania."\nA statement issued by Deputy Campaign Manager Justin Clark alleges that Democratic officials "forced our observers to stay 25 feet or more from the counting process," making it impossible to verify if the votes are being counted correctly.\nThe Trump team is asking the top court to temporarily halt the vote counting in the state "until there is meaningful transparency."\n3:10 p.m. The world watches closely.\nAn employee of the foreign exchange trading company Gaitame.com watches a TV broadcast of U.S. President Donald Trump's speech at a dealing room in Tokyo on Nov. 4. © Reuters\nA member of a conservative group waves a flag bearing a message of support for President Trump in front of the U.S. embassy in Seoul on Nov. 4. © Reuters\nA news report of the U.S. presidential election is seen on a television screen in Hong Kong on Nov. 4. © Reuters\n2:17 p.m. AP agrees that Biden has won Wisconsin.\n2:01 p.m. CNN projects Biden win in Wisconsin, one of the key three swing states.\nElection officials unpack blue bags containing ballots after Election Day at the Kenosha Municipal Building in Kenosha, Wisconsin on Nov. 4. © Reuters\n1:50 p.m. In India, supporters of U.S. vice presidential candidate Sen. Kamala Harris hold prayers near her ancestral village.\nThe southern Indian region where Harris' maternal grandfather was born is rooting for the Democratic Party to win because of the family connection.\nA villager carries a bucket of water and walks past a hoarding featuring U.S. Democratic vice presidential candidate Sen. Kamala Harris in Thulasendrapuram village, south of Chennai, in India on Nov. 4. © AP\nMeanwhile, a Hindu group that claims to have the support of 5 million believers is seeking divine blessings for Trump. It says it wants the president to be re-elected in order to keep India's main rivals -- Pakistan and China -- in check.\nA picture of U.S. President Donald Trump is seen as activists of Hindu Sena, a Hindu right-wing group, perform a special prayer to ensure his victory in the elections, in New Delhi, India on Nov. 3. © Reuters\nOver in Europe, one foreign leader seems to have jumped the gun. Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Jansa congratulates Trump for "four more years."\n1:05 p.m. The Trump campaign issues a statement requesting a recount in Wisconsin, citing irregularities.\n12:45 p.m. The race to 270. Here's our take.\n12:15 p.m. The 2020 presidential election had the highest turnout rate since 1900, according to preliminary estimates by the United States Election Project.\nUniversity of Florida Professor Michael McDonald says that 160 million people voted in Tuesday's election, for a turnout rate of 66.9%. That's the highest in 120 years, since 73.7% turned out for the 1900 election.\nAmid the coronavirus pandemic, at least 101 million Americans cast ballots before Election Day, compared with 47 million in 2016.\n11:55 a.m. All of Wisconsin's ballots have been counted. That's according to the state's Elections Commission Director Meagan Wolfe, who appeared on NBC via phone.\nWhile there are no official announcements, most TV stations have Biden leading in the state. Ten electoral votes are on the line.\n11:30 a.m. Amid the nail-biting vote count, the U.S. on Wednesday officially exited the Paris Agreement on climate change, fulfilling Trump's promise to withdraw the world's second-largest greenhouse gas emitter from the global pact.\n10:30 a.m. The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbs more than 600 points Wednesday morning, as investors see the possibility of a blue sweep -- where the Democrats win the White House, Senate and House -- become less likely, easing fears of tax hikes and tougher regulations.\nThe tech-heavy Nasdaq jumped around 3.7%, with shares of Facebook, Amazon, Apple and Alphabet all up, reflecting an understanding that breakups of Big Tech were now less likely.\n10:20 a.m. Trump and Biden open the day with morning tweets. The president expresses skepticism toward the vote-counting process. Biden calls for every vote to be counted.\n9:30 a.m. Though the Democrats will retain a majority in the House of Representatives, hopes to flip anywhere from five to 15 Republican seats failed to materialize. "Instead, it was the Republicans who scored big," The Hill reports, "knocking out at least a half dozen vulnerable Democrats with several more clinging to the ropes."\n"It was a reversal of fortunes for the Democrats, who had led big in the polls and the money race and were betting that President Trump at the top of the ticket would be a drag on GOP lawmakers all the way down the ballot," the congressional news website wrote.\n8:40 a.m. All four members of the "squad," the Democratic lawmakers elected in 2018 who represent the younger political generation, won their seats. Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan easily won reelection Tuesday night after fending off conservative challengers.\n8:10 a.m. Trump leads in Pennsylvania -- the largest swing state left on the table -- with 85% of precincts reporting, but the race is still on. Only 44% of mail ballots have been counted as of 7:18 a.m., according to the Philadelphia Inquirer. Mail ballots that arrive by Friday, by rule, should be counted. This could change if the Supreme Court intervenes, as the president is suggesting.\n7:55 a.m. Here is the state of Michigan, with 90% of the vote counted:\n7:20 a.m. Democrats have a firm grip on the House of Representatives, but their roadmap to seizing a Senate majority from Republicans is rapidly narrowing. Mohamed El-Erian, chief economic adviser at Allianz, said Wednesday morning on CNBC that meaningful tax changes were now unlikely in the next two years.\n"The Senate's too close. The Senate's not going to allow this," he said.\n7:10 a.m. Biden's lead in Wisconsin widens a smidge as votes from Brown County (Green Bay) come in.\n6:50 a.m. China's media is making hay out of the tense and still-undecided U.S. election and Trump's better-than-forecast performance. "The political demands of populist groups in U.S. society are becoming stronger," says the author of an opinion piece published early Wednesday in The Global Times, a Communist Party mouthpiece. "A large swath of people firmly believe in a presidential candidate who does not believe in science at all. It mirrors the anti-intellectualism [that] is becoming a trend, even a culture in the U.S. Those populist forces and trends will pose an increasing influence in U.S. domestic politics and diplomacy. This is not a positive sign for the U.S., and the world."\nGlobal Times editor Hu Xijin tweeted earlier tonight that the polls are being "ridiculed" by Chinese netizens.\nAnother U.S. adversary beginning to chime in is Iran. President Hassan Rouhani says it does not matter who wins, but that the next U.S. president should "return to law" and respect international treaties, according to Al Jazeera.\n6:40 a.m. Officials in Nevada, where Biden leads by around 8,000 votes, say further results will not come until noon Eastern time on Thursday as they work to include mail-in ballots received Tuesday. Six electoral votes are up for grabs there.\n6:00 a.m. While we wait, Nikkei Asia continues to look into a burning question: How might this election affect the U.S.-China relationship?\nWe spoke with Jonathan Choi, chairman of the Chinese General Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong, the largest pro-Beijing business organization in the territory. He believes Washington's tough stance against Beijing -- and the Beijing-backed Hong Kong government -- will persist regardless of who wins the White House. Trump "may be more serious" while Biden could engage "in a more gentle way," but for Choi, "American policy toward China and Hong Kong is quite clear, no matter who the president is."\nEarlier, Graham Allison, a Harvard University professor and leading national security analyst, offered his thoughts at an online forum hosted by Credit Suisse. He predicted a "more orderly, business-like relationship" if Biden prevails, while Trump would be "very idiosyncratic."\n"Even though [Trump] blamed China for everything, you could even imagine him going back and doing some grand deal," Allison said. In any case, the professor predicted, "We may not know who the clear winner is for some days."\n5:35 a.m. A Wisconsin vote counting machine reportedly ran out of ink, holding up the results. The ink is being replaced.\n5:30 a.m. U.K. bookmaker Ladbrokes now makes Biden the favorite to win the election. It's still a tight market, though, with the Democratic candidate's odds coming down to 8/11, compared with Trump's 11/10.\n4:55 a.m. Biden has taken a razor-thin lead in Wisconsin, according to multiple U.S. news outlets. But only around 10,000 votes separate him from Trump and there are still ballots to be counted.\n4:35 a.m. The Democratic chair in Wisconsin expressed optimism a short while ago that Biden will ultimately carry the swing state Trump won in 2016. Ten electoral votes are up for grabs.\n4:15 a.m. Biden's campaign manager slams Trump's victory claim and demand to stop counting votes, in a statement reported by U.S. media outlets. "The counting will not stop. It will continue until every duly cast vote is counted. Because that is what our laws -- the laws that protect every Americans' constitutional right to vote -- require," Jen O'Malley Dillon is quoted as saying.\n3:50 a.m. Trump boasted earlier that he was up by 600,000 votes in Pennsylvania, arguing his lead was insurmountable. But the state's governor, Democrat Tom Wolf, has insisted that every ballot must -- and will -- be counted.\n3:35 a.m. U.S. media reports suggest a software issue is holding up the counting in Georgia -- the outcome of which could have a major impact on who wins the White House. The New York Times estimates 130,000 votes for Biden in the state remain uncounted.\n3:30 a.m. Biden has won Maine, according to AP. That gives him another four electoral votes in a race where it seems every one might matter.\n3:15 a.m. Trump's speech sends Dow Jones futures diving over 400 points, or 1.6%, while S&P futures slip 0.5%.\nU.S. President Donald Trump, in an unprecedented Election Night speech from the White House, says the delay in declaring him the winner is a "fraud on the American public." © Reuters\n2:55 a.m. AP calls Arizona for Biden, backing up FOX's early call. This makes him the first Democrat to win the southwestern state since Bill Clinton -- and marks the first state to flip sides from the 2016 election.\n2:50 a.m. U.S. Treasury yields quickly fell as Trump claimed he would "go to the Supreme Court" to stop the voting. The benchmark 10-year yield was down 0.1 of a percentage point, trading at 0.77%.\nEarlier, the Nikkei Stock Average closed up 1.7%.\n2:25 a.m. Trump speaks off the cuff at the White House, telling supporters to get ready for a celebration and claiming that he's won states that have not yet been called, including Georgia and North Carolina. "This is a fraud on the American public," he says of delays in declaring the winner.\n"As far as I'm concerned, we already have won," Trump says.\n"We'll be going to the U.S. Supreme Court. We want all voting to stop. We don't want them to find any ballots at 4 a.m. in the morning and add them to the list."\n2:05 a.m. Trump is expected to speak at any moment. While we wait, here's a tweet from the attorney general of Pennsylvania, a crucial state that remains up in the air. It sounds like the result there may not be known anytime soon.\n1:35 a.m. Meanwhile, Oregon earlier tonight became the first state in the nation to approve the use of psilocybin, also known as hallucinogenic mushrooms, according to the AP.\n1:20 a.m. Rhode Island's four electoral votes go to Biden, according to multiple outlets. With Trump's tweets suggesting he's ready to declare himself the winner, Biden fired back a little while ago.\n1:08 a.m. AP calls Texas and its 38 electoral votes for Trump. Democrats were not counting on the typically solid red state to turn blue, but there had been signs they might be making inroads.\n12:49 a.m. Trump accuses Democrats of trying to steal the election, despite his apparent position of strength at the moment. Twitter slaps a warning about possible misinformation over the tweet.\nIn a separate tweet, Trump says he intends to make a statement tonight, writing, "A big WIN!" Ahead of the election, many critics had expressed concern that the president might declare victory early, before the results in key states are clear.\n12:45 a.m. Biden speaks at a drive-in election event, with his wife Jill. "We believe we're on track to win this election," he says, asking for patience while mail-in votes are counted.\n"Keep the faith guys," Biden says as supporters honk their horns. "We're going to win this."\nDemocratic candidate Joe Biden and his wife Jill arrive to address supporters in his home state of Delaware. "Keep the faith," he tells them. © Reuters\n12:35 a.m. After a long wait, AP agrees with FOX: Trump has won Florida, repeating his victory there in 2016.\n12:30 a.m. Biden is expected to speak at any moment. Let's see what he has to say.\n12:20 a.m. State by state results keep coming: AP calls Iowa and Montana for Trump, with Minnesota going to Biden. Georgia, a state Trump won in 2016, is tilting toward Biden, according to the New York Times.\n12:10 a.m. U.K. bookmakers make Trump the favorite to win the election. Ladbrokes puts the odds on the president being re-elected at 8/13, with Biden at 6/5. Biden appears to have picked up Hawaii and Virginia.\n12:05 a.m. Broadcasters NBC, ABC and CNN join FOX in calling Ohio for Trump.\n12:01 a.m. Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham, who won in South Carolina against a well-funded Democratic challenger, says he has had two calls from the president tonight. "He's going to win. To all the pollsters out there, you have no idea what you're doing," Graham says at his victory party.\nTuesday, Nov. 3\n11:55 p.m. FOX, once again quick with its trigger, calls Ohio for Trump after giving him Florida. If these results hold, that would be two huge wins for the president, who also carried both states and their combined 47 electoral votes in 2016. But other media outlets still consider these races too close to call.\n11:50 p.m. Google searches for "how to move to Canada" and "emigrating to Canada" have soared more than 600% in the last few hours in the U.S., amid the tight race.\n11:30 p.m. After calling Florida for Trump, FOX again jumps ahead of the pack and chalks up Arizona's 11 votes for Biden. The president carried the state in 2016.\n11:25 p.m. Nate Silver, editor-in-chief of polling site FiveThirtyEight, tells U.S. network ABC that it might take days for the election to be resolved.\n11:13 p.m. FOX is the first major U.S. network to call Florida and its critical 29 electoral votes for Trump. Other media outlets are still holding off, however.\n11:10 p.m. U.S. stock futures turn volatile as the election results show Biden and Trump neck and neck. Nasdaq futures jumped over 3% at one point, enough to trigger a trading halt mechanism. S&P futures swung between gains and losses before climbing nearly 2% in the early afternoon, Tokyo time.\n11:05 p.m. American networks are calling another batch of states: California, Oregon and Washington go to Biden, while Idaho goes to Trump. All are in line with expectations.\n11:00 p.m. New Hampshire stays blue, with Biden picking up its four electoral votes, according to AP and other outlets. Clinton won the state narrowly in 2016. Most networks are calling Utah and its six votes for Trump.\n10:40 p.m. Trump has won Missouri, AP projects. He also carried the state and its six electoral votes in 2016.\n10:32 p.m. The Chinese yuan is falling, with the race between Trump and Biden going down to the wire in key battleground states -- Ohio, North Carolina, Michigan and Pennsylvania among them. Bloomberg data shows the offshore yuan down as much as 0.7% to 6.7270 per dollar, with investors apparently factoring in the possibility of a second Trump term and continued pressure on Beijing.\nBoth candidates are shown on a screen in New York's Times Square on Nov. 3. (Photo by Maho Kawachi)\n10:30 p.m. U.S. networks are saying the Democrats will retain control of the House.\n10:20 p.m. Republican Bill Hagerty, Trump's former ambassador to Japan, has won his Senate race in Tennessee, according to AP. Meanwhile, the news agency has put New Mexico and its five electoral votes in the Biden column.\n10:01 p.m. AP calls Kansas for Trump. The president's key ally Sen. Lindsey Graham projected to win reelection from South Carolina.\n9:52 p.m. Florida Sen. Marco Rubio tweets that the battle for Florida is "over," and that the president won.\n9:40 p.m. AP predicts Biden will win Colorado, one of the more contested states. Clinton won the state by 4.9% in 2016.\n9:12 p.m. Young Republicans in New York boo at a watch party when their heavily blue state is called for Biden.\n9:03 p.m. AP calls the states of Nebraska, Louisiana, Wyoming, South Dakota and North Dakota for Trump. New York for Biden. Once again, no surprises.\n8:57 p.m. With over 70% of votes counted in the swing state of North Carolina, Biden leads Trump 51.7%- 47.2%. The state was won by Trump by 3.6% in 2016.\n8:50 p.m. Americans across the country are holding watch parties to follow the election results. In this Republican watch party in New York, the crowd burst into loud cheers for conservative FOX anchor Tucker Carlson.\nA young Republicans' watch party in lower Manhattan, New York. (Photo by Marrian Zhou)\n8:40 p.m. AP calls Arkansas for Trump. The president won the state by 26 percentage points last time.\n8:33 p.m. While votes are still being counted, Biden looks to be making gains in Ohio and Texas, two major states Trump won in 2016. With over 50% of votes counted, Biden is leading Trump by double digits. The state, with 18 electoral votes, was won by Trump by 8 points in 2016. No Republican candidate for the presidency has ever won election without winning Ohio.\n8:17 p.m. CNBC projects Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell to keep his seat in Kentucky.\nSenate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell holds a post-election news conference as he declares victory, in Louisville, Kentucky on Nov. 3. © Reuters\n8:03 p.m. AP calls Rhode Island, Maryland, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, New Jersey and Massachusetts for Biden. Oklahoma, Alabama, South Carolina, Mississippi and Tennessee for Trump. CNN gives the District of Columbia to Biden. No surprises.\n7:40 p.m. AP calls Virginia for Biden. Clinton won the state by 5 points in 2016, so the early call suggests the former vice president is performing well.\n7:31 p.m. AP says Trump wins West Virginia. The president won the state by more than 40 points in 2016.\n7:15 p.m. Japan's equity benchmark Nikkei Stock Average opened higher on Wednesday morning, at one point rising over 500 points, or 2%, following an Election Day rally on Wall Street as investors hoped a clear winner would emerge.\n7:01 p.m. CNN makes its first projection, giving the red state of Indiana to Trump. The president won the state in 2016 by 19 percentage points. AP calls the blue state of Vermont for Biden. Former Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton won the state by 26 points. AP also gives Kentucky to Trump. But all eyes are on Florida, with 29 electoral college votes. Experts agree that the president will suffer a major setback for reelection if he loses the state.\n6:40 p.m. While the world watches Americans cast their ballots, U.S. presidents are not directly elected by popular vote. Instead, they are chosen by 538 so-called electors through a process known as the Electoral College.\nEach state has a certain number of electors based on population. Based on Tuesday's polls, the electors then are expected to cast a vote based on the popular vote of each state.\nSo even if a candidate wins a state's vote by a wide margin, he or she is only awarded the electoral votes for that state. Sometimes, this results in a president winning an election despite losing the popular vote as was the case in the 2000 and 2016 elections.\nIt takes 270 electoral college votes for a candidate to win the presidency.\nTuesday's results give the country a projected winner as the electors don't actually cast their votes until more than a month after citizens vote. This year, electors are scheduled to cast their votes on Dec. 14. This gives election officials time to resolve any controversies before the electors vote.\nWhile electors are not required by the U.S. Constitution to follow their state's popular vote, many states' laws do. Though it's rare, electors have challenged those laws and voted for someone else.\nThe electoral votes then must arrive within nine days to president of the Senate and the new Congress counts the electoral votes on Jan. 6.\nThe President-elect and Vice President-elect are then sworn in on Jan. 20.\n6:10 p.m. Trump and Biden get Twitter endorsements from family and friends aimed at turning out the vote.\n6:05 p.m. Polls have closed in Kentucky and Indiana. A stage has been set up in Wilmington, Delaware where Biden is expected to address the nation later in the night. Security is tight.\nBiden's speech venue in Wilmington, Delaware waits for results. (Photo by Tatsuya Goto)\n5:00 p.m. One hour until the first polls close on the East Coast. Never a dull moment in front of New York's Trump Tower.\nA man wearing a Trump masks gives a thumbs up in front of the Trump Tower on Election Day. (Photo by Saqib Tanveer)\nTrump supporters start showing up on Fifth Avenue near Trump Tower, where NYPD is bracing for potential demonstrations. (Photo by Alex Fang)\n4:00 p.m. Will there be post-election unrest? Our reporters go live from Trump Tower.\n3:30 p.m. As voters headed to polling stations across America, key buildings stepped up security measures anticipating possible unrest. Here are some scenes from Election Day.\nApple Store on Fifth Avenue, a mere block away from Trump Tower, fortified itself with black fences. (Photo by Alex Fang)\nErin Doherty hugs her mother Susanna Dew, 61, who is voting for the first time in her life, as they wait in line at a polling place on election day in the Mid City section of New Orleans on Nov. 3. © AP\nSecurity fencing surrounds the White House in Washington on Nov. 3. © AP\n2:45 p.m. What will the election mean for the tech industry? Silicon Valley correspondent Yifan Yu asks Robert Atkinson, president of Information Technology & Innovation Foundation, world's top ranked tech policy think tank.\nAnd TikTok?\n2:30 p.m. Biden has been leading pre-election national polling since September 2019, with a steady double-digit advantage over Trump. The latest average polling numbers on tracking site RealClearPolitics (Oct. 25 - Nov.2) has Biden leading Trump nationally by 51%-44%, a 7-point difference.\nPolling in swing states have been much closer.\n1:30 p.m. A federal judge ordered the U.S. Postal Service to sweep facilities by 3 p.m. Eastern time, including in battleground states such as Pennsylvania and Florida, to ensure that no ballots have been held up and that they are immediately sent out for delivery. The decision is seen as a win for Biden, many of whose supporters have opted to vote by mail this year.\n1:15 p.m. "We're gonna have a great day. And we're going to have -- much more importantly -- we're gonna have a great four years," Trump told reporters at his campaign headquarters in Arlington, Virginia early Tuesday afternoon, upon his return from campaigning in key swing states.\n"Winning is easy, losing is never easy. Not for me. It's not," Trump said, saying he is not yet thinking of how to do a concession speech when asked by a reporter.\nPresident Donald Trump speaks at campaign headquarters on Election Day in Arlington, Virginia. © AP\nThe president talked up his experience going college in Pennsylvania, a battleground state both he and Biden are trying to win over, and again sowed doubt over the legitimacy of mail-in ballots, which no evidence suggests are more likely to be associated with fraud.\n1:00 p.m. Biden visits his childhood home in Scranton, Pennsylvania on Election Day. He signs one of the living room walls, writing: "From this house to the White House with the grace of God. Joe Biden 11-3-2020."\nBoth side have spent most of the last few days of campaigning in the Keystone State. In 2016, Trump narrowly won the state by less than 1 percentage point. But he also made history, for Pennsylvania voted for a Democratic president for the last six elections.\nDemocratic presidential nominee Joe Biden gestures outside of his childhood home on Election Day in Scranton, Pennsylvania. © Reuters\n12:30 p.m. First Lady Melania Trump votes in person at a community center in Palm Beach, Florida, about two miles north of Mar-a-Lago. The secret service cleared out the facility for the First Lady, who wore no mask.\nHer husband voted early days ago.\nU.S. first lady Melania Trump arrives to cast her vote during the 2020 presidential election at Morton and Barbara Mandel Recreation Center in Palm Beach, Florida on Nov. 3. © Reuters\n11:48 a.m. Here is the latest from New York's Chinatown.\nAlex Fang and Waj Khan discuss the election in New York's Chinatown. (Photo by Saqib Tanveer)\nhttps://www.facebook.com/nikkeiasianreview/videos/2752067138365190\n11:40 a.m. Former presidential candidate Hillary Clinton tweets that she voted.\n11:30 a.m. U.S. stocks are on an Election Day rally. The Dow Industrial Average gained over 680 points, or 2.5%, at one point. The S&P 500 gained 2.3% and the Nasdaq Composite advanced 2.2%.\nIn an election note released Monday, Wall Street firm BlackRock noted that a scenario under which the Democrats win the White House, the House and the Senate may have the most impact across fiscal policy, investment, taxation, regulation and trade. "A Democratic sweep would tip us to a more pro-risk investment stance," the world's largest asset manager said.\n10:30 a.m. Trump tells Fox & Friends that he will declare victory "only when there's victory," and that "there is no reason to play games." The president says the crowd size at his events are unprecedented and that he sees a "very solid chance at winning."\n9:30 a.m. Almost 100 million people, equivalent to roughly the entire population of Vietnam, voted early in the 2020 U.S. election, according to Michael McDonald, a political science professor at the University of Florida. About 35.7 million votes were cast in person while 63.9 million came from mail-in ballots.\nMail-in and absentee ballots that have arrived at the Allegheny County Election Division are kept in a secure area at the Elections warehouse in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, a key battleground state. © AP\n8:00 a.m. One notable store that is not boarded up: The Gucci store in Trump Tower.\nThe Gucci store at Trump Tower on New York's Fifth Avenue seen on election day. (Photo by Ken Moriyasu)\n5:00 a.m. The first polling places open in the state of Vermont. The first polls close on the East Coast at 6:00 p.m.\nPeople line up to vote in the 2020 U.S. presidential election at P.S. 198 in the Manhattan borough of New York City on Nov. 3. © Reuters\nHere are the times when voting closes in some of the key states:\n-- 7:00 p.m. Georgia. If Biden wins Georgia, it will be the first time a Democrat has carried the state since 1992 and a big boost to the former vice president. Trump won here by five points in 2016.\nThe Senate races in Kentucky and South Carolina involve Republican heavyweights Mitch McConnell and Lindsey Graham, respectively.\n-- 7:30 p.m. North Carolina and Ohio.\n-- 8:00 p.m. Florida and Pennsylvania. Maine has a Senate race that is key to the Republicans holding on to their majority in the upper house.\n-- 9:00 p.m. Arizona, Michigan, Minnesota, Texas and Wisconsin. Key Senate races in Arizona, Michigan, Colorado and Texas.\n-- 10:00 p.m. Iowa and Nevada\nMonday, Nov. 2\n9:00 p.m. Trump and Biden spent their final day of the campaign in key battleground states. Both spent time Monday in Michigan and Pennsylvania.\nU.S. President Donald Trump tosses a cap to supporters during a rally in Avoca, Pennsylvania on Nov. 2, the final day of the election campaign. © Reuters\nDemocratic U.S. presidential nominee Joe Biden stands next to pop star Lady Gaga at the University of Pittsburgh's voter activation center in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, on Nov. 2. © Reuters\n7:00 p.m. Stores across New York are boarded up on Monday, as the city braces for possible protests following the election. This summer, many shops in New York and other cities across the country were vandalized and looted during protests over the killing of George Floyd by police in Minneapolis, Minnesota.\nFollowing monthslong shutdowns driven by the COVID-19 pandemic, retailers can ill afford more damage to their businesses. Here are some scenes from New York.\nWorkers in New York put up plywood boards to protect the windows of a Disney Store in New York on Nov. 2. (Photo by Marrian Zhou)\nPedestrians stand outside a boarded up Saks Fifth Avenue store in New York on Nov. 2. (Photo by Marrian Zhou)\nA Michael Kors shop in New York is boarded up as the high-end clothing and accessories retailer braces for possible unrest following the U.S. presidential election. (Photo by Alex Fang)\n6:40 p.m. Like Trump, Biden spends part of his last day campaigning in Pennsylvania, pitching himself as a "union man" and slamming the president in a strongly worded tweet.\n5:50 p.m. According to a Reuters/Ipsos poll released Monday, probably the last of its kind ahead of election day, Biden appeared to hold a narrow lead over Trump in Florida.\nThe election is expected to come down to six swing states. Florida, with 29 electoral votes, is the biggest prize. The others are Pennsylvania with 20 votes, Michigan with 16 votes, North Carolina with 15 votes, Arizona with 11 votes and Wisconsin with 10 votes.\nThe Reuters poll shows Biden with a 50%-46% lead over Trump in Florida, a wider gap than the 49%-47% in the previous poll.\nPresident Donald Trump's inauguration ceremony outside the U.S. Capitol in Washington on Jan. 20, 2017: Trump trails Democrat Joe Biden in national polls ahead of the election. © Reuters\nHere are the numbers for the other battleground states:\nPennsylvania: Biden 49%, Trump: 47%\nMichigan: Biden 52%, Trump 42%\nNorth Carolina: Biden 49%, Trump 48%\nArizona: Biden 49%, Trump 47%\nWisconsin: Biden 53%, Trump 43%\n5:00 p.m. In the last 40 years, all U.S. presidents bar one have been elected to two consecutive terms. The exception, George H.W. Bush, was booted out of office by Bill Clinton, whose campaign theme: "It's the economy, stupid," resonated with voters frustrated by a recession.\n4: 24 p.m. In a tweet aimed at swaying voters in the critical battleground state of Pennsylvania, Trump criticized the former Democrat vice president as soft on China.}}
{{Colin Kaepernick entered the national spotlight in 2016 when he kneeled during the national anthem and raised his fist to protest racial inequality. Now, as people around the nation protest the death of George Floyd, Kaepernick is stepping in to help by establishing a fund to pay the legal fees for protesters in Minneapolis.\nThe Know Your Rights Campaign announced Kaepernick’s partnership on Friday. A Twitter post from the group said the fund seeks to help support the “Freedom Fighters on the ground” and that their work is “in solidarity w/ our brothers & sisters in Minneapolis.”\nThe Know Your Rights Camp Legal Defense Initiative is working with top defense lawyers in the Minneapolis, Minnesota, area to help those in need of legal assistance, according to the group’s website.\n"When there is an injustice within our community, it is our legal right to address it, by any means necessary," the website said. Those seeking help "while fighting injustice in the Minneapolis area" can fill out a form on the site.\nThe former San Francisco 49ers quarterback tweeted about the fund, saying, “In fighting for liberation there’s always retaliation. We must protect our Freedom Fighters.”\nThe announcement comes as protests rage across the city. On Thursday night, demonstrators burned cars, looted businesses, and set buildings on fire, including the Minneapolis Police 3rd Precinct, home to the four officers arrested in connection to George Floyd's death.\nOfficer Derek Chauvin, who kneeled down on Floyd’s neck for several minutes despite Floyd repeatedly saying he couldn’t breathe, was arrested and charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter on Friday.\nNow in the fourth day of nationwide protests, demonstrators in Minneapolis peacefully marched across Hennepin Avenue Bridge, according to CBS Minnesota. What appeared to be thousands of protestors blocked traffic, kneeling down and raising their fists, much like Kaepernick did in 2016.\nKaepernick has tweeted his support for the protests, and has pinned the message to his profile.\n“When civility leads to death, revolting is the only logical reaction. The cries for peace will rain down, and when they do, they will land on deaf ears, because your violence has brought this resistance,” he said. “We have the right to fight back!”}}
{{In this image from video, former Minneapolis police Officer Derek Chauvin listens as his defense attorney Eric Nelson gives closing arguments as Hennepin County Judge Peter Cahill preside Monday, April 19, 2021, in the trial of Chauvin at the Hennepin County Courthouse in Minneapolis. Chauvin is charged in the May 25, 2020 death of George Floyd. (Court TV via AP, Pool) AP\nThe jury reached a verdict Tuesday at the murder trial of former Officer Derek Chauvin in the death of George Floyd, the Black man who was pinned to the pavement with a knee on his neck in a case that set off a furious reexamination of racism and policing in the U.S.\nThe verdict, arrived at after about 10 hours of deliberations over two days, was to be read late in the afternoon in a city on edge against the possibility of more unrest like that that erupted last spring.\nThe courthouse was ringed with concrete barriers and razor wire, and thousands of National Guard troops and law enforcement officers were brought in ahead of the verdict. Some businesses boarded up with plywood.\nFloyd died last May after Chauvin, a 45-year-old now-fired white officer, pinned his knee on or close to the 46-year-old Black man’s neck for about 9 1/2 minutes as Floyd gasped that he couldn't breathe and onlookers yelled at Chauvin to get off.\nThe jury, made up of six white people and six Black or multiracial people, weighed charges of second-degree unintentional murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter, with convictions on some, none or all of the charges possible. The most serious charge carries up to 40 years in prison.\nThe city has been on edge in recent days — not just over the Chauvin case but over the deadly police shooting of a 20-year-old Black man, Daunte Wright, in the nearby Minneapolis suburb of Brooklyn Center on April 11.\nEarlier in the day Tuesday, President Joe Biden weighed in by saying he believes the case is “overwhelming.”\nHe said that he had spoken to Floyd’s family on Monday and “can only imagine the pressure and anxiety they’re feeling.”\n“They’re a good family and they’re calling for peace and tranquility no matter what that verdict is,” Biden said. “I’m praying the verdict is the right verdict. I think it’s overwhelming, in my view. I wouldn’t say that unless the jury was sequestered now.”\nThe president has repeatedly denounced Floyd’s death but previously stopped short of commenting on the trial itself.\nOther politicians and ordinary citizens also offered their opinion as the jury was deliberating.\n“It shouldn’t be really even questioned whether there will be an acquittal or a verdict that doesn’t meet the scale of the crime that was committed,” Rep. Ilhan Omar, a Democrat, said in Brooklyn Center. The congresswoman said the Chauvin case looks open-and-shut.\nGuilty verdicts could mark a turning point in the fight for racial equality, she said.\n“We are holding on to one another for support. Hopefully this verdict will come soon and the community will start the process of healing,” Omar said.\n___\nWebber reported from Fenton, Michigan. Associated Press video journalist Angie Wang in Atlanta and Associated Press writers Doug Glass, in Minneapolis, Mohamed Ibrahim in Brooklyn Center, Minnesota, and Todd Richmond in Madison, Wisconsin, contributed.}}
{{Janay Clayton has no doubt there will be trouble in Minneapolis if the white ex-police officer accused of murdering George Floyd walks free -- with soldiers patrolling the streets and shops boarded up in anticipation of a verdict.\n"We're prepared for the worst," Clayton, a resident of the US city, said on Monday, at the start of the trial's fourth week.\nThe 62-year-old warned there could be fresh protests if Derek Chauvin is acquitted for Floyd's death. The former officer was captured on video kneeling on the 46-year-old Black man's neck for nine and a half minutes last May.\nClanton is not the only person to be worried: emotions -- and tensions -- are running sky high in the Midwestern city, which has become synonymous with huge protests against racial injustice and police brutality that last year ignited a nationwide reckoning.\nThe downtown courthouse where Chauvin awaits the jury's verdict is surrounded by skyscrapers whose doors and windows are boarded up, while the court itself is protected by armoured military vehicles and 10-foot concrete walls, as the jury retires to deliberate on Chauvin's fate after hearing closing arguments.\nTraffic has been diverted away from police precincts, which were targeted in violent demonstrations last year.\n"I live downtown and we're all quite concerned about the outcome of the trial," Clanton said. "You can see by walking through downtown."\nAnything short of a guilty verdict, and the city -- where a few last winter snowflakes were still falling Monday -- could erupt with new violence.\n"I think there'll be riots" if Chauvin is found not guilty, said surgeon Pouya Hemmati, 31. "I think people will be very upset."\n"Everybody saw somebody put his knee on his neck for 9.5 minutes," he added. "I hope that he is convicted of what was very clearly a murder and excessive police brutality."\nThe police veteran, who has pleaded not guilty, faces a maximum of 40 years in prison.\nBut a conviction on any of the charges -- second-degree murder, third-degree murder or manslaughter -- will require the jury to return a unanimous verdict.\n'Dangerous' situation\nAs a deterrent to any potential rioting or looting, the state has deployed around 3,000 members of the Minnesota National Guard alongside police in what it dubbed "Operation Safety Net."\nBut in a sign of how tense the city is, before dawn on Sunday, shots were fired at a group of National Guard soldiers from a car that then fled the scene. Two soldiers suffered only superficial injuries from flying glass.\nMinnesota Governor Tim Walz told a local TV station he had spoken to the injured guardsmen.\n"They are OK," he said. "But it highlights how dangerous the situation can get."\nMaxine Waters, a veteran Black Democratic member of Congress from California who has set up camp in Minnesota, has been accused by Republicans of fanning the flames after calling for people to stay in the streets and vowing she would "continue to fight in every way that I can for justice."\n'Fuel change'\nFor some residents, Minnesota's legal history in cases involving police officers increases the likelihood of a not guilty verdict.\n"The only time we did see (a police officer) convicted, they were a person of colour. So you know in this situation being that I am a person of color, I'm not expecting any results," said Ashley Commodore, a singer.\n"I don't think (he will be convicted) and I think that the city is kind of preparing for that to happen," the 33-year-old added, pointing to the presence of the National Guard.\nAnxiety -- and scrutiny of the trial -- has only increased after the fatal shooting of 20-year-old Daunte Wright by a white policewoman in a nearby suburb on April 11. Four days later, Chicago police released body-camera footage that showed the killing of 13-year-old Adam Toledo, igniting another round of protests.\n"I think that what we saw last year in terms of riots and push back is going to be doubled, if not tripled,” Commodore said.}}
{{Jury selection has been delayed at the murder trial of Derek Chauvin, the Minneapolis police officer who was filmed kneeling on George Floyd's neck until he died.\nReaction to the video of the killing of Floyd, a black man whom the white Chauvin was arresting for passing a counterfeit $20 note, spread across the world and sparked an ongoing racial reckoning in the US.\nIn anticipation of further protests, the National Guard has effectively locked down the Midwest city where more than 1500 buildings were torched by rioters last June.\nThe area surrounding the court building has been fortified with bollards and razor wire.\nJudge Peter Cahill has set aside three weeks for jury selection and legal argument.\nChauvin is charged with second degree murder and second degree manslaughter and faces up to 40 years jail.\nJudge Cahill sent the potential jury home Monday morning local time while a higher court considered an appeal over whether or not he has to reinstate a murder three charge that he struck out last October.\nAn appeals court decision on the charge is expected from Tuesday, local time.\nMurder three is a lower bar for prosecutors to clear than the more significant second degree murder charge and carries a maximum 25 years jail compared to 40 years.\nFor second degree murder to stick, the jury would have to convict Chauvin of felony assault, which observers say will be complicated by the fact that the choke hold he used to restrain Floyd was police procedure in May last year.\nFloyd resisted arrest and was found to have amphetamines and fentanyl in his system during an autopsy.\nWhether or not it is used, is tied to the appeal of Mohamed Noor, the police officer who was in 2018 found guilty of murdering former Sydney life coach Justine Damond Ruszczyk.\nHundreds of protesters gathered from early Monday near the Government Centre where the trial is taking place.\nMinnesota lawyer general Keith Ellison was among those in the court. Attendance is strictly limited to due Covid and just one family member at a time is allowed in the room to represent Floyd and to support Chauvin.\nChauvin is being tried separately to the three other officers who are charged over Floyd's death.\nDue to significant interest in the trial, it is being streamed on Court TV.\nOriginally published as Jury sent home at George Floyd murder trial}}
{{Bricks, bottles, brass knuckles, and even Molotov cocktails. These are just some of the things NYPD officers faced during Friday evenings’ violent protests across New York City.\nNew York City Police Commissioner Dermot Shea said that an arrest was made for the attempted murder of four police officers after a person threw a molotov cocktail at an occupied, marked police van.\nNYPD officers suffered a range of injuries during the violent protests, with some officers reportedly having had their teeth knocked out and others reportedly in the emergency room after the protest.\n“The answer for violence should not be violence or murder,” Shea said. “That is a mistake and I think anyone that sees it needs to condemn it, because it will not get us where we want to be.”\nShea said that there were two protests planned in New York City on Friday, one beginning at Foley Square that Shea said was “overwhelmingly peaceful,” and a second protest near the Barclays Center in Brooklyn which Shea said was specifically advertised to cause destruction and mayhem.\n“Thank God, there was no loss of life on any part,” Shea said. “There was intent to cause loss of life, thankfully that did not happen.”\nAdvertisement\n“Any protester that tries to take the humanity away from a police officer and devalue them just because they are a public servant is no better than the racists who devalue people of color and particularly black men in America," de Blasio said.}}
{{As vote counting continues Thursday, the race for president has only tightened, with the winner hanging on the results of the few battleground states that remain unclaimed.\nIn some of those states, Republican President Donald Trump and his Democratic challenger, former vice president Joe Biden are separated by less than 100,000 votes.\nWith Wisconsin and Michigan projected by the Associated Press for Biden on Wednesday, the paths to victory for Trump appear fewer.\nBut with some of the margins trending toward razor-thin, all of the remaining states still in play could stack up for either candidate.\nBelow are some of the scenarios that commentators are watching Thursday afternoon. Note, these assume that Biden has 264 electoral votes, and Trump has 213, as projected by the Associated Press.\nTrump must hold his leads in the states where he is currently out in front in order to win.\nA candidate needs 270 electoral votes to win.\nTrump wins scenario: President holds leads, steals Nevada\nPresident Trump leads by narrow margins in Pennsylvania, North Carolina and Georgia. If he can hold these leads, but overtake Biden in Nevada, he will add 57 electoral votes to his column.\nAlaska has not yet been projected for Trump, but he has a hefty lead there and is expected to take their three electoral votes.\nThat would put him at 273 electoral votes.\nOn Thursday, an estimated 89% of votes in Nevada were counted. Biden’s lead stood at only about 11,000 votes at 2 p.m.\nA Clark County official – the county where Las Vegas is located – said at a press conference on Thursday that about 50,000 of the county’s 63,000 outstanding mail-in ballots would be counted by Friday, but that counting would continue over the weekend and that ballots that absentee arrive by mail will be accepted until Tuesday.\nBiden wins scenario: Pennsylvania flips\nTrump has led in Pennsylvania since the polls closed on Tuesday night, but his once hefty lead has continued to narrow as mail-in ballots have been counted in the state.\nThe Pennsylvania Secretary of State, Kathy Boockvar, told CNN Thursday afternoon that it was possible a winner in the state could be named before Friday, and that more than half a million votes would be counted in the state on Thursday.\nThe Biden campaign has been optimistic that they would take Pennsylvania, and on election night Biden said it would “take a while” but they were confident they would win the state once all the votes were counted.\nTrump’s lead in the state had narrowed by about 50,000 votes by 2 p.m. on Thursday. The President still led by 114,000 votes at that time.\nPennsylvania’s 20 electoral votes would give Biden 273, making him the next president.\nTrump wins scenario: President holds leads, steals Arizona\nControversially, Fox News called Arizona for Biden early on Election Night, just after polls closed. Since then, the Associated Press also projected Arizona in Biden’s column.\nHowever, other media outlets – including the New York Times and CNN – have resisted making a projection in the state as the vote count continues.\nThose outlets show Biden’s electoral vote total at 253, rather than 264.\nWhile the mail-in vote count in states like Pennsylvania and Georgia have heavily favored Biden, the mail-in vote count has led to a narrowing of the Arizona race in favor of Trump.\nAt 2 p.m. on Thursday, Biden’s lead in the state stood at just 70,000 votes.\nIf Trump holds Pennsylvania, North Carolina and Georgia, and wins Alaska as expected, overtaking Arizona would add 65 electoral votes to his column.\nThat would put him at 278 electoral votes.\nBiden wins scenario: Arizona stays blue, Nevada goes to Trump, but Biden steals Georgia\nSince the very earliest hours after polls closed – when the limited returns showed Biden winning in Georgia – Trump has held a margin in the state that continues to narrow.\nAt 2 p.m. on Thursday, Trump led in Georgia by just 13,000 votes.\nIf Biden can hold on in Arizona, which some media outlets have called in his column, and manages to overtake Trump in Georgia, he will rack up 280 electoral votes and win the presidency.}}
{{Minneapolis Police Officer Derek Chauvin was arrested Friday in the death of George Floyd, Public Safety Commissioner John Harrington said. Chauvin was later charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter.\nChauvin was seen in a video kneeling on George Floyd’s neck as Floyd repeatedly says “I can’t breathe.” The officer continued to press his knee onto Floyd’s neck even after he lost consciousness. None of the other officers at the scene attempted to check on Floyd until after the ambulance arrived, despite bystanders’ pleas.\nHennepin County Attorney Mike Freeman announced charges Friday against Derek Chauvin, one of the Minneapolis police officers involved in the death of George Floyd.\n“This is by far the fastest we’ve ever charged a police officer,” Freeman said.\nFreeman pointed out the third-degree murder charge is the same one he filed against former Minneapolis police officer Mohamed Noor, a case he ultimately won. Noor shot and killed Justine Damond in 2017 after she called police to report a possible sexual assault in the alley behind her south Minneapolis home.\nFreeman was asked if the escalating unrest in Minneapolis, St. Paul and surrounding cities influenced his decision to file charges so quickly.\n“I’m not insensitive to what’s happening in the streets,” Freeman said, adding that protesters have been outside his own home all week as well.\nAdvertisement\nChauvin was seen in a video kneeling on George Floyd’s neck as Floyd repeatedly says “I can’t breathe.” The officer continued to press his knee onto Floyd’s neck even after he lost consciousness. None of the other officers at the scene attempted to check on Floyd until after the ambulance arrived, despite bystanders’ pleas.\nFloyd later died at the hospital. His death has sparked national outrage.\nChauvin and three other police officers, idenfited as Thomas Lane, J. Alexander Kueng and Tou Thao were fired following the incident.\nCHARGES: CHAUVIN KEPT KNEE ON FLOYD'S NECK WHILE NON-RESPONSIVE\nAccording to the charges, Lane and Kueng responded to the initial 911 call from Cup Foods about a customer using counterfeit currency. They located Floyd in a nearby vehicle and, after some resistance, removed him from the vehicle and handcuffed him.\nChauvin and Thoa eventually arrived on the scene. The officers made several attempts to get Floyd into the squad car, but he resisted.\nThe charges say Floyd began saying and repeated that he could not breathe while he was still standing outside the squad car.\nChauvin pulled Floyd out of the squad car and he went down on the ground, still handcuffed. Kueng held his back and Lane held his legs while Chauvin pressed his knee onto Floyd’s neck.\nFloyd told the officers “I can’t breathe” multiple times and repeated said “mama” and “please,” but the officers did not move from their positions.\nAt one point, Lane asks, “Should we roll him on his side?” and Chauvin says no. The body camera video shows Floyd eventually appear to stop breathing or speaking. Kueng checked his pulse and found none, but none of the officers moved until the ambulance arrived a few minutes later.\nChauvin had his knee on Floyd’s neck for a total of eight minutes and 46 seconds, including for two minutes and 43 seconds after Floyd was non-responsive, the charges say.\nThe full report from the Hennepin County Medical Examiner is pending, but preliminary findings from Floyd’s autopsy revealed he likely died from a combination of underlying health conditions, any potential intoxicants in his system and being restrained by police, according to the charges. There was no physical evidence that he died of asphyxia of strangulation.\n“Police are trained that this type of restraint with a subject in a prone position is inherently dangerous,” the charges say.\nFloyd's underlying health conditions included coronary artery disease and hypertensive heart disease.\nTIMELINE OF GEORGE FLOYD’S DEATH\n8:08 p.m. – A clerk at Cup Foods called 911 to report that a man bought merchandise at the store using a counterfeit $20 bill. Officers Thomas Lane and J. Alexander Kueng arrive at the store and locate Floyd in a nearby vehicle with two other people.\nAs he is speaking with Floyd, Lane pulls his gun out, points it at Floyd through Floyd’s open window and orders him to show his hands. When Floyd puts his hands on the steering wheel, Lane puts his gun back in the holster.\nThe officers eventually order Floyd him of the vehicle and handcuff him, despite some resistance. After being handcuffed, Floyd becomes compliant. The officers sit him down on the sidewalk and talk with him for two minutes, during which they ask if he is “on anything” and explain that he is being arrested.\n8:14 p.m. – Kueng and Lane attempt to walk Floyd to their squad car, but Floyd stiffened up, fell to the ground and told the officers he was claustrophobic. Chauvin and Thoa arrive in a separate squad car.\nThe officers make several attempts to get Floyd into the squad car, but he struggles with officers. While standing outside the car, Floyd begins saying and repeating that he cannot breathe. Chauvin tries to get Floyd into the squad car with help from Lane and Kueng.\n8:19 p.m. – Chauvin pulls Floyd out of the squad car. Floyd goes to the ground face down and still handcuffed. Kueng holds his back and Lane holds his legs. Chauvin presses his knee onto Floyds neck. Floyd repeats, “I can’t breathe.”\nAt one point, Lane asks, “Should we roll him on his side?” and Chauvin says no. Lane says he is worried about “excited delirium” Chauvin responds, “that’s why we have him on his stomach." None of the three officers moved from their positions.\n8:24 p.m. – Body camera video shows Floyd stop moving.\n8:25 p.m. – Body camera video appears to show Floyd ceasing to breathe or speak. Kueng checked Floyd’s pulse and says he cannot find one. None of the officers moved from their positions.\n8:27 p.m. – Chauvin removes his knee from Floyd’s neck. An ambulance and paramedics arrives and the officers place Floyd on a gurney.\n9:25 p.m. – Floyd was pronounced dead at the Hennepin County Medical Center, according to the medical examiner’s report.}}
{{The massive explosion that has killed more than 50 people and injured hundreds of others Tuesday evening in the Port of Beirut was caused by “materials that were stored at the port,” according to Lebanon’s General Security Director-General Major-General Abbas Ibrahim, who spoke with the LBCI news organization Tuesday evening about the disaster.\nThe high ranking security official was referring to “highly explosive sodium nitrate,” a chemical that had been confiscated from a ship more than a year ago and was placed in one of the warehouses at the port, according to an Arabic-language news bulletin published by LCBI. The sodium nitrate was assumed to be damaged and inert, but clearly was not, the news outlet added.\nAdvertisement\nIt’s not yet clear how the chemicals were detonated.\nThe blast rocked Beirut, shattering glass, pummeling buildings into rubble and ripping the balconies from those that remained, Lebanon’s Health Minister, Hamad Hassan told media. Reuters news agency is broadcasting live feed from the site, which looks hauntingly similar to that of downtown Manhattan shortly after the September 11, 2001 “9/11” attack on America by the Al Qaeda terror organization.\nBillows of white smoke rose in a large mushroom cloud followed by smoke that turned grey and black in heavy waves above Beirut Harbor; a dark mottled orange column of smoke was seen rising shortly after.\nThick smoke filled the streets of the city center as Lebanese citizens wandered about dazed, some of them stained with blood as they tried to make sense of the world around them.\nAccording to Joseph Al-Qusifi, editor-in-chief of the Lebanese newspaper An-Nahar, the building of the news outlet was also badly damaged by the explosion. At least 15 of the staff at the paper were injured in the disaster, he said.\nPrime Minister Hassan Diab announced that tomorrow (Wednesday, August 5) has been declared a national day of mourning for the victims of the explosion at the Port of Beirut.\nThe explosion initially appeared to have taken place at the fireworks storage area near the port.\nShocking video of massive #explosion from 7 different angles.\nReports of casualties are still coming in according to #Lebanon's health ministry. Still, no one is sure what caused the massive #blast that shook #Beirut. Here is the explosion from seven different angles. pic.twitter.com/dJVBoiCEQt — CGTN America (@cgtnamerica) August 4, 2020\nAccording to LBCI, at least one explosion took place near the downtown Beirut residence of former Prime Minister Sa’ad Hariri. The explosion was so massive, it damaged buildings are far as 10 kilometers away – as far away as Beirut International Airport, in fact – and was heard as far as 20 kilometers away, according to the Al Arabiya English news site.}}
{{WASHINGTON D.C. -- President-elect Joe Biden has selected Merrick Garland, a federal appeals court judge who in 2016 was snubbed by Republicans for a seat on the Supreme Court, as his attorney general, two people familiar with the selection process said Wednesday.Biden is expected to announce Garland's appointment on Thursday, along with other senior leaders of the department, including former homeland security adviser Lisa Monaco as deputy attorney general and former Justice Department civil rights chief Vanita Gupta as associate attorney general.In picking Garland, Biden is turning to an experienced judge who held senior positions at the Justice Department decades ago, including as a supervisor of the prosecution of the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing.The pick will force Senate Republicans to contend with the nomination of someone they spurned in 2016, refusing even to hold hearings when a Supreme Court vacancy arose, but Biden may be banking on Garland's credentials and reputation for moderation to ensure confirmation.The people familiar with the process spoke on condition of anonymity.}}
{{How will US President-elect Biden deal with Iran?\nIncoming United States leader signals revival of 2015 nuclear deal as Tehran further reduces commitments.}}
{{In this image from video, former Minneapolis police Officer Derek Chauvin listens as his defense attorney Eric Nelson gives closing arguments as Hennepin County Judge Peter Cahill preside Monday, April 19, 2021, in the trial of Chauvin at the Hennepin County Courthouse in Minneapolis. Chauvin is charged in the May 25, 2020 death of George Floyd. (Court TV via AP, Pool) AP\nThe jury reached a verdict Tuesday at the murder trial of former Officer Derek Chauvin in the death of George Floyd, the Black man who was pinned to the pavement with a knee on his neck in a case that set off a furious reexamination of racism and policing in the U.S.\nThe verdict, arrived at after about 10 hours of deliberations over two days, was to be read late in the afternoon in a city on edge against the possibility of more unrest like that that erupted last spring.\nThe courthouse was ringed with concrete barriers and razor wire, and thousands of National Guardsmen and other law enforcement officers were brought in ahead of the verdict.\nFloyd died last May after Chauvin, a 45-year-old now-fired white officer, pinned his knee on the 46-year-old Black man’s neck for about 9 1/2 minutes.\nThe jury, made up of six white people and six Black or multiracial people, weighed charges of second-degree unintentional murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter, with convictions on some, none or all of the charges possible. The most serious charge carries up to 40 years in prison.\nEarlier in the day Tuesday, President Joe Biden weighed in by saying he believes the case is “overwhelming.” Other politicians and ordinary citizens also offered their opinion.\n“It shouldn’t be really even questioned whether there will be an acquittal or a verdict that doesn’t meet the scale of the crime that was committed,” Rep. Ilhan Omar, a Democrat, said in Brooklyn Center, a suburb just outside Minneapolis. The congresswoman said the Chauvin case looks open-and-shut.\nGuilty verdicts could mark a turning point in the fight for racial equality, she said.\n“We are holding on to one another for support. Hopefully this verdict will come soon and the community will start the process of healing,” Omar said.\nIn Washington, the president said that he had spoken to Floyd’s family on Monday and “can only imagine the pressure and anxiety they’re feeling.”\n“They’re a good family and they’re calling for peace and tranquility no matter what that verdict is,” Biden said. “I’m praying the verdict is the right verdict. I think it’s overwhelming, in my view. I wouldn’t say that unless the jury was sequestered now.”\nThe president has repeatedly denounced Floyd’s death but previously stopped short of commenting on the trial itself.\nAhead of a verdict, some stores were boarded up in Minneapolis, the courthouse was ringed with concrete barriers and razor wire, and National Guard troops were on patrol. Last spring, Floyd’s death set off protests along with vandalism and arson in Minneapolis.\nThe city has also been on edge in recent days over the deadly police shooting of a 20-year-old Black man, Daunte Wright, in Brooklyn Center on April 11.\n___\nWebber reported from Fenton, Michigan. Associated Press video journalist Angie Wang in Atlanta and Associated Press writers Doug Glass, in Minneapolis, Mohamed Ibrahim in Brooklyn Center, Minnesota, and Todd Richmond in Madison, Wisconsin, contributed.}}
{{We rely on the support of our subscribers to fund our journalism as we continue to cover the coronavirus crisis. If you’re not already signed up, we hope you will consider subscribing. Already a print subscriber? If you haven’t already, please activate your digital access.}}
{{VOTERS may have to remain in suspense for some time after election night as mail-in ballots will make it difficult to know just who wins on the day, FEC commissioner Ellen Weintraub predicts.\nWeintraub backed up her call by pointing to an expected increase in mail-in voting, which will potentially delay the announcement of results until after November 3.\n2 FEC commissioner Ellen Weintraub has warned that mail-in ballots could mean the results of the presidential election are delayed Credit: Getty Images - Getty\n“Let me just tell everybody, we’re all going to need to take a deep breath and be patient this year,” Weintraub said on CNN’s New Day.\n“There’s a substantial chance we are not going to know on election night what the results are.”\nMail-in voting is projected to be an expensive affair, with Congress already having shelled out $400 million for such voting programs, as well as voter safety initiatives. Weintraub doesn’t believe that this sum is enough to get the job done.\n“They really need to allocate more money now. I’m very concerned about this, and that is the No. 1 priority right now,” she said.\n“The entire operation is going to be much more expensive.”\nPresident Trump has heavily criticized mail-in ballots, slamming them as extremely vulnerable to tampering and inaccuracy.\n“There is NO WAY (ZERO!) that Mail-In Ballots will be anything less than substantially fraudulent,” he tweeted in May.\n2 President Trump has heavily criticised mail-in ballots, asserting that they will allow rampant voter fraud Credit: AP:Associated Press\nWeintraub dismissed these concerns, asserting that mail-in ballots are secure.\n“It’s been done before. It’s safe. There is no substantial risk of fraud involved in absentee voting,” she said.\nWeintraub also said that mail-in ballots are seen by experts as the same as absentee ballots, which President Trump has endorsed.\nThe FEC commissioner put forth the recent primary election in Kentucky as evidence of the growing relevance of mail-in ballots, as an increased part of the population voted by mail. She said that mail-in and absentee voting is the “preferred alternative” for many.\nMOST READ IN NEWS 'TAKEN TOO SOON' Mom-of-three, 37, found dead after ‘ex-husband kidnapped her in his SUV’ FAMILY SLAUGHTER Dad 'shoots dead terminally ill daughter, 11, and then kills himself' Latest DEADLY BLAST '1 woman dead & 4 critical as EXPLOSION destroys 3 homes leaving kids trapped' UGLY SCENES Pro-cop & rival protesters brawl as 1 man ‘tries to STAB another with US flag’ CHECK PLEASE 2nd $1,200 checks ‘could be sent in just 7 days' if Trump signs bill this week 'OUT OF CONTROL’ Trump accuses Portland mayor & gov of putting lives at risk\nWeintraub warned that this concern might apply to more elections than just the presidency.\n“Probably for the presidency, but maybe for many other races that are important to people, and that's OK,” she said\n“If it takes a little bit longer to count all the votes accurately, that's what we need to do in order to ensure that everyone's vote counts.”}}
{{RAPPER 50 Cent has been slammed for appearing to use the Beirut blast tragedy to plug his brandy business.\nHe posted a chilling video of the explosion on his Instagram account with the message 'the f** they had in there #branson cognac #lecheminduroi'\n4 The rapper signed a partnership with French Cognac Branson in 2018 Credit: Instagram\n4 His Beirut post has not gone down well with some of his fans\nThe star uses the hashtags at the end of virtually all his posts but they look highly inappropriate next to the explosion clip.\nAt least 100 people were killed and 4,000 injured when a huge explosion ripped through the port area in Lebanon's capital.\nPresident Michel Aoun said the blast was caused by 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate stored unsafely in a warehouse.\nThe rapper's post has been viewed more than two million times - and it isclear not everyone is impressed.\nOne fan - called aladdinthestreet - wrote: "This ain’t the time to be making jokes 50."\nAnother added: "That comment is stupid."\n4 The rapper has legions of fans in Lebanon and once played in Beirut Credit: AFP - Getty\n4 The rapper announced his new booze venture in Instagram in 2018 Credit: Instagram\nDJjonatran wrote to the rapper: "What kinda caption is that?"\nOthers were quick to defend Fiddy saying he was just emphasizing how big the blast was.\nThe rapper signed a partnership with French Cognac Branson in 2018.\nHe posted at the time: "What you thought l was doing in France fool.\n"I went to get the work. I got da plug get wit me. BRANSON Brown the finest cognac around. #getthestrap."\nHe later went on Instagram live to celebrate in a cocky manner as only the "In Da Club" rapper would.\nMost read in News BRUSSELS OUT Belgium goes onto UK quarantine list after recent spike in coronavirus cases 'THROWN LIKE A BALL' Boy killed by bears after being dragged inside cage at holiday resort BEATEN TO A PULP Top model Daria Kyryliuk, 24, beaten by security guards at nightclub SECONDS FROM DEATH Haunting last pic shows firemen entering chemical store before blast Warning SWALLOWED WHOLE Remains of 'boy, 14' cut from huge croc’s belly after beast ate him alive VIRUS LEAK Chinese scientist who fled to US claims coronavirus came from a 'military lab'\nThe video catches 50 chilling out with some bottles of Branson on the table while counting up thousands of dollars.\nThe star's insensitive post will be hammerblow to his many fans in Lebanon.\nIn 2006, the 'Candy Shop' rapper even performed to a sell out crowd in central Beirut.}}
{{US Defense Secretary Mark Esper said on Wednesday that most of the country's military experts believe the massive explosion that destroyed downtown Beirut, Lebanon, the day prior was an accident, not a bomb, as US President Donald Trump has asserted.\nEsper told reporters at the Aspen Security Forum on Wednesday the Pentagon was "still getting information on what happened. Most believe it was an accident as reported, and beyond that I have nothing further to report on that."\nOn Tuesday afternoon, a colossal explosion at the Port of Beirut annihilated the port and destroyed much of downtown, killing at least 135 people and injuring thousands. Lebanese Prime Minister Hassan Diab said on Tuesday the explosion was an accident, caused by 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate that had been improperly stored at the port for several years.\nHowever, at a news conference Tuesday evening, Trump told reporters he believed it had been an attack.\n"It looks like a terrible attack," Trump said, later clarifying that "it was a bomb of some kind."\n"It would seem like [an attack] based on the explosion. I've met with some of our great generals and they just seem to feel that it was. This was not some kind of a manufacturing explosion-type of event. This was, seems to be, according to them, they would know better than I would, but they seem to think it was a attack," Trump added.}}
{{In an interview earlier this week, singer Kelly Rowland discussed the impact George Floyd's death has had on her and on the nation\nFloyd died after a Minneapolis police office used his knee to pin him down by the neck, maintaining pressure for several minutes after video of the incident shows Floyd going limp and appearing to be unconscious. The video, which quickly went viral, also showed Floyd clearly begging the officer to release the pressure and repeatedly expressing that he could not breathe and was in duress.\nRowland was in tears while discussing Floyd's death, which she said has made her feel "angry," "hurt," and, at times, "hopeless."\nKelly Rowland is joining with the millions of people around the country expressing the pain, hurt, and frustration many feel following the death of George Floyd, the Minneapolis man who died after being pinned down for several minutes by a police officer who held him with his knee pressed on Floyd's neck.\nDuring a discussion with Entertainment Tonight's Kevin Frazier this week, the singer attempted to hold back tears while discussing the impact Floyd's death has had on the nation.\n"I can't sit still. I'm angry. I'm hurt. At times feeling hopeless," she said while tearing up. "But then sometimes I look at my son and I'm like, hell no. I gotta keep going and what do I need to do? [I'm] feeling for the families that have to go through all this. Communities, all their emotions, [it] just makes me angry. There's so many things I'm feeling, like everyone else."\nRowland discussed the impact Floyd's death has had on the black community, explaining:\n"Yesterday I was just mad, like red mad, and then last night, it was tough to sleep. I'm happy that it's actually bothering us the way it is now, because that's when action happens. But we have to have a way to move together, if that makes any sense. We need a way to move together, because if we move and we're just acting out of all this anger and madness and emotion, [it won't work]. We have to be collected and unified.\nBut this is years upon years of oppression and depression. It's so deeply rooted. And that's why we're having a tough time with all this. There's so much trauma. Even watching it every day is trauma. What is this going to do to us in 10 years? We're watching it. How can you not be appalled? If you're not black, you should be appalled. If you're not black, you should be moving. You should be saying something, posting something."\nThe officer in the video, Derek Chauvin, has been fired from the police department and, on Friday, he was formally charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter for his role in Floyd's death.\nFor more stories like this, including celebrity news, beauty and fashion advice, savvy political commentary, and fascinating features, sign up for the Marie Claire newsletter.\nsubscribe here\nKayleigh Roberts Contributor Kayleigh Roberts is the weekend editor at Marie Claire, covering celebrity and entertainment news, from actual royals like Kate Middleton and Meghan Markle to Hollywood royalty, like Katie Holmes and Chrissy Teigen.\nThis content is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page to help users provide their email addresses. You may be able to find more information about this and similar content at piano.io\nThis commenting section is created and maintained by a third party, and imported onto this page. You may be able to find more information on their web site.}}
{{"My heart is aching looking at these photos in Beirut,” Halsey wrote of the explosion, which reportedly killed at least 100 people and injured at least 4,000\nCelebs Mourn Deadly Beirut Explosion While Fertilizer Compound & Fireworks Eyed as Possible Cause\nPeople around the world, including celebrities like Halsey, Naomi Campbell and Ariana Grande, are offering support to the city of Beirut after a massive explosion on Tuesday killed at least 100 people and injured thousands more.\nWorkers in Lebanon's capital city were still working on Wednesday to treat the more than 4,000 people injured in the explosion, which occurred near the city’s waterfront, The New York Times reported.\nGet push notifications with news, features and more.\nHalsey, 25, first expressed her condolences on Twitter, then asked her followers for guidance as to how she could help “most effectively and immediately” — which led her to share a message encouraging people to donate to the Lebanese Red Cross.\n“My heart is aching looking at these photos in Beirut,” the singer posted on Twitter.\nGrande, 27, also urged fans to donate to the Lebanon Red Cross, as well as disaster relief funds.\nImage zoom The scene after a massive explosion in Beirut on Tuesday Marwan Naamani/picture alliance via Getty Images\n“My heart, strength and condolences are with Lebanon and everyone affected by this tragedy,” she wrote. “Please support/donate if you’re able to, I will be doing so too.”\nImage zoom From left: Halsey, Naomi Campbell and Ariana Grande Allen Berezovsky/Getty Images; JEAN-BAPTISTE LACROIX/AFP via Getty Images; Steve Granitz/WireImage\nThe shattering explosion may have begun with a fire that then spread to fireworks that then ignited ammonium nitrate being stored in the port, the Associated Press reported, citing both experts and footage from the blast.\nLebanese Interior Minister Mohammed Fahmi told a local TV station that he believed more than 2,700 tons of the chemical compound — commonly used as an agricultural fertilizer — were detonated in the blast, according to the AP.\nThe ammonium nitrate had reportedly been stored in a warehouse at the dock since 2014, when it was confiscated from a cargo ship.\nA Lebanese general, however, told local TV that it would be "naive to describe such an explosion as due to fireworks," according to CNN.\nThe Times reports that ammonium nitrate is also being blamed by officials for the explosion and, according to CNN, an investigation will hone in on the ammonium nitrate stored at the port.\nExperts told the AP that other explosions involving the chemical compound led to similarly massive scales of damage.\nFahmi, the Lebanese minister, did not mention fireworks as a possible cause, but Boaz Hayoun, owner of the Israeli firm Tamar Group, told the AP that all signs pointed to fireworks, too.\nImage zoom The aftermath of the Beirut explosion on Tuesday Houssam Shbaro/Anadolu Agency via Getty Images\n“Before the big explosion, you can see in the center of the fire, you can see sparks, you can hear sounds like popcorn and you can hear whistles,” Hayoun said. “This is very specific behavior of fireworks, the visuals, the sounds and the transformation from a slow burn to a massive explosion.”\nMeanwhile, other celebrities including supermodel Naomi Campbell and actress Salma Hayek also expressed their condolences to the city, where more than 300,000 people have been displaced from their homes, according to the Times.\nCampbell, 50, shared a set of photos that featured her spending time in Beirut, including one in which she hugged a heart-shaped statue that sat in the middle of an “I [Heart] Beirut” statue.\n“My thoughts, prayers and love go out to the people of Lebanon and their families 🇱🇧 💔🙏🏾#Beirut #LinkInBio ( my memories of downtown of how I will remember it ),” she wrote, while directing her followers to a community-driven resource list of ways to help.\nHayek, who has Lebanese heritage, shared video of the shocking explosion and subsequent chaos to Instagram.\n“My broken heart goes out to all the people who have lost loved ones and who are in the affected areas of my beloved Beirut,” she wrote.\nTuesday’s explosion was so powerful, it was felt more than 150 miles away in Cyprus, the Times reported, adding that the neighborhood in which it occurred was “essentially flattened.”}}
{{Court Says Jury Has Reached Verdict In Derek Chauvin's Murder Trial\nEnlarge this image toggle caption Court TV via AP Court TV via AP\nThe jury has reached a verdict in the trial of former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin in the death of George Floyd. It is one of the most closely watched cases in recent memory, setting off a national reckoning on police violence and systemic racism even before the trial commenced.\nThe court will return to session between 4:30 and 5 p.m. ET for the reading of the verdict. The jury had been sequestered since Monday, following closing arguments.\nFloyd's death on Memorial Day 2020 sparked protests in Minneapolis, across the United States and around the world. It prompted calls for police reform and soul-searching on issues of racial injustice.\nFloyd was a 46-year-old Black man from Houston who had moved to Minnesota just three years earlier. He was a father and brother who idolized his mother, loved making music and had been a star athlete as a young man.\nFloyd died after Chauvin pressed his knee on Floyd's neck for 9 minutes and 29 seconds as Floyd lay facedown, hands cuffed behind his back.\nChauvin faced three counts: second-degree murder — unintentional; third-degree murder; and second-degree manslaughter.\nThe trial\nJudge Peter Cahill presided in the case. Known as being fair and decisive, Cahill made the unusual decision to allow the trial to be broadcast live.\nThe prosecution argued that Floyd died as a direct result of Chauvin's actions: that due to Chauvin's weight on Floyd's neck and back while holding him in the prone position, Floyd died of low oxygen levels that caused a brain injury and arrhythmia, causing his heart to stop.\n"He did what he did on purpose, and it killed George Floyd," said prosecutor Steve Schleicher.\nTestimony in the case was remarkable in that witnesses for the prosecution included numerous members of the Minneapolis police. Minneapolis Police Department Chief Medaria Arradondo and other members of his department testified that Chauvin's lengthy restraint of Floyd was not reasonable and violated the department's policies on use of force.\n"There is an initial reasonableness in trying to get him under control in the first few seconds," Arradondo testified, "but once there was no longer any resistance, and clearly when Mr. Floyd was no longer responsive and even motionless, to continue to apply that level of force to a person proned out, handcuffed behind their back — that in no way, shape or form is anything that is by policy, is not part of our training and is certainly not part of our ethics or our values."\nChauvin's defense, meanwhile, argued that there was a range of potential factors in Floyd's death, including what it said was Floyd's enlarged heart, fentanyl and methamphetamine in his system and possibly carbon monoxide from squad car exhaust.\nAbove all, defense attorney Eric Nelson strove to inject doubt into the state's case. He framed Chauvin's actions as those of a "reasonable police officer" doing his job under stressful and chaotic circumstances.\nThe testimony ranged from complex medical and forensic pathology topics to discussion of police training and officers' use of force. There were moments of deep emotion, including from bystander Charles McMillian and the young woman identified in court as Darnella, who was 17 when she took video of the incident.\nHennepin County's medical examiner, Dr. Andrew Baker, testified that Floyd died from cardiopulmonary arrest resulting from "law enforcement subdual, restraint and the neck compression." He said the manner of death was "homicide," meaning that someone else was involved in the death.\nCompared with the prosecution, the defense's testimony was brief. Defense attorney Nelson called just six witnesses, including a retired Minneapolis police officer and a retired paramedic who had interacted with Floyd during a 2019 traffic stop.\nThe defense spent the most time questioning Dr. David Fowler, a retired forensic pathologist who testified that Floyd died from a sudden cardiac event and that opioids and methamphetamine in his system and possibly carbon monoxide poisoning played a role. He disputed the Hennepin County medical examiner's judgment that the manner of Floyd's death was "homicide" and said that it should have been classified as "undetermined," given the number of factors in play.\nIn the opinion of Baker, the medical examiner, "the law enforcement subdual, restraint and the neck compression was just more than Mr. Floyd could take, by virtue of those heart conditions." While fentanyl and heart disease may have contributed to Floyd's death, they were not the direct cause, Baker said.\nOther medical and forensic witnesses called by the prosecution agreed.\n"Mr. George Floyd died from a cardiopulmonary arrest. It was caused by low oxygen levels. And those low oxygen levels were induced by the prone restraint and positional asphyxiation that he was subjected to," testified Dr. Jonathan Rich, a cardiologist.\nFloyd's brother, Philonise Floyd, described their Houston childhood and told the court about how Floyd "was a leader in our household." Floyd's girlfriend, Courteney Ross, described her affection for him and their mutual struggle with opioid addiction.\nThe charges\nSecond-degree murder — unintentional is defined as causing death without intent to do so, while committing or attempting to commit a felony offense. The maximum sentence for second-degree murder is 40 years.\nThird-degree murder is causing death to an individual by "perpetrating an act imminently dangerous to others and evidencing a depraved mind without regard for human life," but without the intent to cause death. It carries a maximum sentence of 25 years.\nSecond-degree manslaughter is causing the death of another by "culpable negligence, creating an unreasonable risk" in which the defendant "consciously takes the risk of causing death or great bodily harm to another individual." It carries a maximum sentence of 10 years.\nThe jury\nThe names of the jurors are not known. But we do know that the jury was significantly less white than Hennepin County itself.\nThe 12 jurors include four Black people, two people who identify as multiracial and six white people. Two alternates — both of them white women — have been dismissed.\nThe jury reported each day for duty to the Hennepin County Government Center under intense security measures, using a private entrance to enter the court.\nThe jurors were given a laptop and monitor to review the extensive video footage and exhibits presented during the trial.\n"Use your common sense. Believe your eyes. What you saw, you saw," prosecutor Schleicher told the jury.\nIf the state is "missing any one single element" to meet the burden of proving Chauvin's guilt beyond a reasonable doubt for each of the three counts, "it is a not-guilty verdict," defense attorney Nelson told them.\nBeyond the courtroom\nOn the Sunday before the last week of testimony, another Black man was killed at the hands of police in Hennepin County. Daunte Wright, 20, was fatally shot by Brooklyn Center officer Kim Potter during a traffic stop. Potter, who says she mistakenly fired her gun instead of a Taser, resigned from the force and has been charged with second-degree manslaughter.\nMajor demonstrations have followed Wright's shooting, with protesters gathering outside the Brooklyn Center police station in suburban Minneapolis.\nFormer President Barack Obama and former first lady Michelle Obama drew a straight line between the deaths of Floyd and Wright: "The fact that this could happen even as the city of Minneapolis is going through the trial of Derek Chauvin and reliving the heart-wrenching murder of George Floyd indicates not just how important it is to conduct a full and transparent investigation, but also just how badly we need to reimagine policing and public safety in this country," they said in a statement.}}
{{A massive explosion ripped through central Beirut, Lebanon, on Tuesday, injuring hundreds of people and blowing out windows in buildings across the city.\nThe thunderous blast which occurred near the port in the Lebanese capital sent up a huge mushroom cloud-shaped shockwave, flipping over cars and damaging buildings miles away.\nThe state-run National News Agency said an “uncountable” number of people were wounded by the blast.\nAbout 400 injured patients were treated in one of Beirut’s major hospitals, Hotel Dieu.\nREAD ALSO: 11 injured as UN plane crash-lands at Gao Airport, Mali\nHowever, there were conflicting reports on what caused the explosion, which was initially blamed on a major fire at a warehouse for firecrackers near the port.\nThe director general of the state security directorate told journalists the blast was caused by confiscated “high explosive materials,” but did not provide further details.\nJoin the conversation\nOpinions}}
{{“The way we beat this virus, we can beat the virus of racism," he said. "We can beat the virus of discrimination. We can beat the virus of inequality.”}}
{{Beirut — A huge explosion near the centre of Beirut killed at least 10 people, injured hundreds and sent shockwaves across the Lebanese capital, shattering windows and causing apartment balconies to collapse, witnesses and security sources said.\nThe most powerful explosion to hit Beirut in years shook the ground, leaving some residents thinking an earthquake had struck. Dazed and weeping, some of them wounded, people walked through streets checking to see if relatives were hurt.\nThe blast occurred in the city's port area, where there were warehouses housing explosives, Lebanon's state news agency NNA and two security sources said.\nA third security source said there were chemicals stored in the area. Footage of the blast shared by residents on social media showed a column of smoke rising from the port district followed by an enormous blast.}}
{{MINNEAPOLIS >> Fires burned unchecked and thousands protesting the police killing of George Floyd ignored a curfew as unrest overwhelmed authorities for another night in Minneapolis, and the governor acknowledged today that he didn’t have enough manpower to contain the chaos.\nThe new round of tumult — which has also spread to other cities — came despite Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz vowing Friday to show a more forceful response than city leaders had the day before. But by early Saturday morning, Walz said he didn’t have enough troops, even with some 500 National Guardsmen.\n“We do not have the numbers,” Walz said. “We cannot arrest people when we are trying to hold ground.”\nWalz said he was moving quickly to mobilize more than 1,000 more Guard members, for a total of 1,700, and was considering the potential offer of federal military police. But he warned that even that might not be enough, saying he expected another difficult night Saturday.\nThe Pentagon on Saturday ordered the Army to put military police units on alert to head to the city on short notice at President Donald Trump’s request, according to three people with direct knowledge of the orders who did not want their names used because they were not authorized to discuss the preparations. The rare step came as the violence spread to other cities: A man shot dead in Detroit, police cars battered in Atlanta and skirmishes with police in New York City.\nCriminal charges filed Friday morning against the white officer who held his knee for nearly nine minutes on the neck of Floyd, a black man who was handcuffed at the time, did nothing to stem the anger. Derek Chauvin, 44, was charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.\nMinneapolis police said shots had been fired at law enforcement officers during the protests but no one was injured.\nAs the night dragged on, fires erupted across the city’s south side, including at a Japanese restaurant, a Wells Fargo bank and an Office Depot. Many burned for hours, with firefighters again delayed in reaching them because areas weren’t secure.\nShortly before midnight, scores of officers on foot and in vehicles moved in to curb the violence, one day after city and state leaders faced blowback for their handling of the crisis. On Thursday, protesters had torched a police station soon after it was abandoned by police and went on to burn or vandalize dozens of businesses.\nThe Minnesota Police and Peace Officers Association urged Gov. Walz to accept any help.\n“You need more resources,” the group said in a tweet. “Law enforcement needs leadership.”\nNot all the protests were violent. Downtown, thousands of demonstrators encircled a barricaded police station after the 8 p.m. Friday curfew. “Prosecute the police!” some chanted, and “Say his name: George Floyd!” Some protesters sprayed graffiti on buildings.\nAnger filled the streets of Minneapolis.\nBen Hubert, a 26-year-old local resident, said he wasn’t surprised people were breaking curfew and setting fires.\n“I’m outraged,” he said of the Floyd case. “But I’m also sad. The injustice has been going on for so long. It’s been swelling for years.”\nChauvin was also accused of ignoring another officer who expressed concerns about Floyd as he pleaded that he could not breathe, while Chauvin pressed his knee into his neck for several minutes. Floyd had been arrested on suspicion of using a counterfeit $20 bill at a store.\nChauvin, who was fired along with three other officers who were at the scene, faces more than 12 years in prison if convicted of murder.\nAn attorney for Floyd’s family welcomed the arrest but said he expected a more serious murder charge and wants the other officers arrested, too.\nProsecutor Mike Freeman said more charges were possible, but authorities “felt it appropriate to focus on the most dangerous perpetrator.”\nProtests nationwide have been fueled by outrage over Floyd’s death and years of police violence against African Americans. Protesters smashed windows at CNN headquarters in Atlanta, set a police car on fire and struck officers with bottles. Large demonstrations in New York, Houston, Washington, D.C., and dozens of other cities ranged from people peacefully blocking roads to repeated clashes with police.\n“You are disgracing our city,” Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms told protesters. “You are disgracing the life of George Floyd and every other person who has been killed in this country.”\nPolice were trying to put Floyd in a squad car Monday when he stiffened and fell to the ground, saying he was claustrophobic, a criminal complaint said. Chauvin and Officer Tou Thoa arrived and tried several times to get the struggling Floyd into the car.\nChauvin eventually pulled Floyd out of the car, and the handcuffed Floyd went to the ground face down. Officer J.K. Kueng held Floyd’s back and Officer Thomas Lane held his legs while Chauvin put his knee on Floyd’s head and neck area, the complaint said.\nWhen Lane asked if Floyd should be rolled onto his side, Chauvin said, “No, staying put is where we got him.” Lane said he was “worried about excited delirium or whatever.”\nAn autopsy said the combined effects of being restrained, potential intoxicants in Floyd’s system and his underlying health issues, including heart disease, likely contributed to his death. It revealed nothing to support strangulation as the cause of death.\nThere were no other details about intoxicants, and toxicology results can take weeks. In the 911 call that drew police, the caller describes the man suspected of paying with counterfeit money as “awfully drunk and he’s not in control of himself.”\nAfter Floyd apparently stopped breathing, Lane again said he wanted to roll Floyd onto his side. Kueng checked for a pulse and said he could not find one, according to the complaint.\nChauvin’s attorney had no comment when reached by The Associated Press.\nThe prosecutor highlighted the “extraordinary speed” in charging the case four days after Floyd’s death and defended himself against questions about why it did not happen sooner. Freeman said his office needed time to gather evidence, including what he called the “horrible” video recorded by a bystander.\nTrump said Friday that he’d spoken to Floyd’s family and “expressed my sorrow.”\nHe called video of the arrest “just a horrible thing to witness and to watch. It certainly looked like there was no excuse for it.”\nAttorney Benjamin Crump, who is representing Floyd’s family, asked to take custody of Floyd’s body for an independent autopsy.\nThe doctor who will do the autopsy is Michael Baden, former chief medical examiner of New York City. He was hired to do an autopsy for Eric Garner, a black man who died in 2014 after New York police placed him in a chokehold and he pleaded that he could not breathe.\nState and federal authorities also are investigating Floyd’s death.}}
{{Get all the very latest news in Ireland straight to your email every single day Sign up! Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Invalid Email\nAn Irish man living in Beirut have spoken of his horrifying ordeal after his home was destroyed by the deadly explosion which has left at least 100 dead and another 4000 injured.\nColin Lee, originally from Drogheda, works as the Lebanese Country Director for human rights organisation Plan International, shared footage of his house which was left in ruins as a result of the blast which rocked the city.\nDebris can be seen scattered across his home while shattered glass from blown in windows laid strewn across the floor.\nColin can also be heard shouting into his child to stay inside the bathroom as he assessed the damage.\nIn videos posted on Plan International's social media pages Colin said: “We’re a bit shocked as to the scale and the force of it. I’ve been around bomb explosions before but nothing like this”\n(Image: Plan International/ Twitter)\n"I just wanted to express my thanks on behalf of the team here to everyone in the Plan family for their messages of support over the last 18 hours since the massive explosions in the port area of Beirut.\n"We've had two injuries, both are fine, one was stitched up yesterday evening, our office is closed.\n"It's very difficult to comprehend the damaged to property is extensive. More so people's lives have been turned upside down.\nColin went on to explain the horror explosion has come at a time when the Middle Eastern nation continues to be dogged by a a ravaged economy and policital strife both domestically and in neighbouring Syria.\nAnd he called on other nations to offer their help to the Lebanese in the wake of the blast.\nSign-up for the Irish Mirror newsletter Sign up for our newsletter today! Simply pop your e-mail into the box at the top of this article (this won't work while using the Irish Mirror app) and get all the latest news and entertainment direct to you Every day we'll send you a roundup e-mail of all the latest news. Local Irish news, UK and international news, local and national Sport and entertainment news , all in one handy e-mail. You can unsubscribe from this service at any time. And rest assured that your data will not be shared with any other party.\n"As many of you know we have been going through a social, economic, political crisis since October last year. Lebanon needs international support. It needs money and it needs it very quickly.\n"We've adapted our ways during Covid-19 and we'll adapt our ways of working during this crisis over the coming days and weeks to assess how we can support girls and women in Beirut."\nHundreds of people are missing and hundreds of thousands displaced by the explosion, caused by more than 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate left unsecured at a warehouse near the city's port for six years.}}
{{Vote counting continues in some US "battleground" states after Tuesday's presidential election.\nThe Trump campaign has launched legal challenges to stop the counting in some of these key states.\nPro- and anti-counting protesters have also taken to the streets in several US cities and there are concerns about wider unrest.\nWoman holds US flags. Image: 123rf\nRELATED: Knife-edge US election: Biden campaign slams Trump's premature claims of victory\nMeanwhile Democratic challenger Joe Biden is still edging ahead of the Republican incumbent, Donald Trump.\nBruce Whitfield gets comment from John Stremlau, Honorary Professor of International Relations at the University of the Witwatersrand (Wits University).\nDonald Trump. Image: pixabay.com\nBasically, Trump doesn't want to be a loser says Stremlau.\nHowever Trump does seem to be on track to losing what is a surprisingly close election. He did get 5 million more votes this year than he did in 2016... Joe Biden got more votes than anyone who's run for president in history... He is leading by close to 4 million votes... and also is likely to win an electoral college. John Stremlau, Honorary Professor of International Relations - Wits University\nDonald Trump is making a lot of noise about ending the voting now and that the voting is corrupt... casting aspersions on an electoral process that has been running since 1789. John Stremlau, Honorary Professor of International Relations - Wits University\nTwitter is apparently branding all of Trump's tweets with warnings of falsehood to indict the electoral system without fact. He does have his teams of lawyers going around to challenge various counting processes and they had not made much progress so far... John Stremlau, Honorary Professor of International Relations - Wits University\nProf. Stremlau describes the current moment as "particularly fragile" for the world's oldest democracy.\nWhen I was growing up it was always said that America is narrowly but not deeply divided. Globalisation and the social media and the problems that have afflicted the transformation of America to a more diverse country... those are all under flux and challenge right now. John Stremlau, Honorary Professor of International Relations - Wits University\nIt never was a really full democracy like South Africa is, which is a human rights-based Constitution. It's a states rights-based Constitution in the US and consequently I think the democratic deficits are becoming glaringly clear to those of us in the Democratic Party, but not those in the Republican Party... John Stremlau, Honorary Professor of International Relations - Wits University\n... who think very much that they ought to make America great again where the traditional elites ruled the roost! John Stremlau, Honorary Professor of International Relations - Wits University\nListen to Stremlau's insights in the audio below:\nThis article first appeared on 702 : 'US vote count: Biden likely to get both electoral college and democratic vote'}}
{{There is a lot of blame to go around for the poisonous delusions that led to yesterday's riot at the Capitol, starting with a president who incited his followers with loony conspiracy theories and wild tales of a stolen election. But the disgraceful performance of Sen. Ted Cruz (R–Texas) should figure prominently in histories of this shameful incident. By contrast, Sen. Rand Paul (R–Ky.), who also has reinforced some of Donald Trump's fraud claims and even toyed with the idea of objecting to electoral votes, stared into the constitutional abyss and stepped back.\nCruz was one of six senators who voted against recognizing Arizona's electoral votes for President-elect Joe Biden last night and one of seven who supported the challenge to Pennsylvania's electoral votes. Ostensibly, these objections were based on the claim that the votes were not "regularly given," as required by the Electoral Count Act. Yet Cruz offered no reason to think that was true, meaning he had no legal basis for his objections.\nCruz presented his challenges as an attempt to assuage the doubts of Americans who think the election was "rigged" by appointing an "electoral commission" charged with conducting "a 10-day emergency audit" to investigate unfounded claims of systematic fraud that have been decisively rejected by state officials and the courts. He knew there was no way that was going to happen, but he pursued his objections anyway, even after yesterday's pro-Trump chaos, vandalism, and violence led several of his erstwhile allies to reconsider their support for his plan. His pointless grandstanding lent credence to the unfounded accusations underlying the riot—accusations recklessly hurled by the same man Cruz himself has described as a "pathological liar" who "doesn't know the difference between truth and lies"—while forsaking his oath to support and defend the Constitution.\n"Recent polling shows that 39 percent of Americans believe the election that just occurred was 'rigged,'" Cruz said when it was his turn to explain why he was objecting to Arizona's electoral votes. "You may not agree with that assessment, but it is nonetheless a reality for nearly half the country….Even if you do not share that conviction, it is the responsibility, I believe, of this office to acknowledge that it is a profound threat to this country and to the legitimacy of any administrations that will come in the future."\nCruz insisted that he wasn't "arguing for setting aside this election." His concern, he claimed, was that "tens of millions of Americans will see a vote against the objection as a statement that voter fraud doesn't matter, isn't real, and shouldn't be taken seriously." Dismissing their concerns, he said, "jeopardizes, I believe, the legitimacy of this and subsequent elections."\nWhat was missing from Cruz's little speech? Any mention of evidence indicating that Arizona's electoral votes were not properly certified, which is the only legal justification for rejecting them. A senator who takes his responsibilities seriously does not lodge an objection under the Electoral Count Act simply as an excuse for outlining a cockamamie scheme that supposedly will alleviate the doubts sown by a president whose fantasy that he actually won the election by a landslide is impervious to evidence.\nCruz's maneuver was cowardly as well as legally groundless. Eager to appease the Republicans who live in Trump's alternate universe without seeming like a kook, Cruz refuses to endorse or reject their beliefs. More than two months after the election, the closest he can come to admitting that Biden won is his concession that "our candidate may not have prevailed." At the same time, he presents the widespread "conviction" that Trump won not as his personal belief but as a "reality" that somehow justifies setting aside duly certified electoral votes.\nSenate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R–Ky.) shares Cruz's concerns about voter fraud and election "irregularities." But as he noted before Cruz spoke, "nothing before us proves illegality anywhere near the massive scale…that would have tipped the entire election." He added that "public doubt alone" cannot "justify a radical break" from historical practice "when the doubt itself was incited without evidence."\nMcConnell rejected the notion that humoring conspiracy theorists will somehow bring the nation together. "We cannot keep drifting apart into two separate tribes," he said, "with a separate set of facts and separate realities, with nothing in common except our hostility towards each other and mistrust for the few national institutions that we all still share."\nMcConnell warned that "if this election were overturned by mere allegations from the losing side, our democracy would enter a death spiral" and "we would never see the whole nation accept an election again." Instead, "every four years would be a scramble for power at all cost."\nCruz's claim that he was not trying to overturn the election results is impossible to reconcile with his original plan, which involved objecting to electoral votes from six swing states, enough to change the outcome. "This objection is for the state of Arizona, but it is broader than that," he said last night. "It is an objection for all six of the states." In point of fact, it wasn't. But if the Capitol Hill riot had not persuaded Cruz and his collaborators to scale back their objections, their efforts, if successful, would have done precisely what Cruz insisted he did not want to do.\nNow consider what Rand Paul had to say about Cruz's machinations:\nShould Congress override the certified results from the states and nullify the states' right to conduct elections? The vote today is not a protest; the vote today is literally to overturn the election! Voting to overturn state-certified elections would be the opposite of what states' rights Republicans have always advocated for. This would doom the Electoral College forever. It was never intended by our founders that Congress have the power to overturn state-certified elections. My oath to the Constitution doesn't allow me to disobey the law. I cannot vote to overturn the verdict of the states. Such a vote would be to overturn everything held dear by those of us who support the rights of states in this great system of federalism bequeathed to us by our founders. The Electoral College was created to devolve the power of selecting presidential electors to the states. The Electoral College is, without question, an inseparable friend to those who believe that every American across our vast country deserves to be heard. If Congress were given the power to overturn the states' elections…what terrible chaos would ensue. Imagine the furor against the Electoral College if Congress becomes a forum to overturn states' Electoral College slates. It is one thing to be angry. It is another to focus one's anger in a constructive way. That hasn't happened today, to say the least. We simply cannot destroy the Constitution, our laws, and the Electoral College in the process. I hope as the nation's anger cools, we can channel that energy into essential electoral reforms in every state.\nPaul is by no means blameless when it comes to vague allegations of election fraud. During a December 16 Senate hearing on election "irregularities," he accepted the testimony of Christopher Krebs, who ran the Department of Homeland Security's Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency until Trump fired him in a fit of pique on November 17, that vote-tabulating machines were not compromised, as the president has repeatedly alleged. But Paul said that does not mean "there was no problem in the elections." He said he was concerned that "people broke the absentee [ballot] rules." He also worried about votes by noncitizens and "dead people," both of which are rare.\nLater Paul declared that "fraud happened," which no doubt is true, and "the election in many ways was stolen," which is quite a leap. He added that "the only way it will be fixed is by in the future reinforcing the laws."\nIn short, Paul has flirted with rhetoric similar to Trump's but nevertheless agreed with McConnell that fraud was not pervasive enough to justify rejecting electoral votes. Cruz, by contrast, wanted to throw out electoral votes from Arizona and Pennsylvania without even bothering to allege that they were legally invalid. Whether or not you agree with Paul's views about the merits of the Electoral College, his refusal to compromise his principles by going along with Cruz's scheme shows that even loyal Trump supporters can find the courage to defy the president's demands.}}
{{A second massive blast occured at a building near the first site of explosion, sending up a mushroom cloud and a shock wave over the city\nBeirut: A massive explosion rocked downtown Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the port, damaging buildings and blowing out windows and doors as a giant mushroom cloud rose above the capital.\nLebanese Red Cross official Georges Kettaneh said there were dead and wounded, but did not have an exact figure, just saying there were hundreds of casualties.\nA civil defense official on the scene of the blast said his men had evacuated dozens to hospitals and that there were still bodies inside the port, many of them under debris.\nView this post on Instagram A post shared by Karim Sokhn (@ksokhn) on Aug 4, 2020 at 10:39am PDT\nThe cause of the blast was not immediately known.\nIt was stunning even for a city that has been shaken by civil war, suicide bombings and bombardment by Israel.\nDozens of ambulances ferried the injured from the port area, where the wounded lay on the ground, Associated Press staff at the scene said. Hospitals called for blood donations.\nThe head of the Lebanese Red Cross told local TV there were hundreds of casualties although many were superficial wounds from broken glass.\nVideo taken by residents showed a fire raging at the port, sending up a giant column of smoke, illuminated by flashes of what appear to be fireworks. Local TV stations reported that a fireworks warehouse was involved.\nThe fire then appeared to catch at a nearby building, triggering a more massive explosion, sending up a mushroom cloud and a shock wave over the city.\n“It was like a nuclear explosion,” said Walid Abdo, a 43-year-old school teacher in the neighborhood of Gemayzeh near Beirut.\nCharbel Haj, who works at the port, said it started as small explosions like firecrackers, then the huge blast erupted and he was thrown off his feet. His clothes were torn.\nMiles from the port, balconies were knocked down, windows shattered, streets were covered with glass and bricks and lined with wrecked cars. Motorcyclists picked their way through traffic, carrying the injured.\nOne woman covered in blood from the waist up walked down a trashed street while talking furiously on her phone. On another street, a woman with a bloodied face looked distraught, staggering through traffic with two friends at her side.\n“This country is cursed,” a young man passing by muttered.\nThe blast came at a time when Lebanon’s economy is facing collapse, hit both by a financial crisis and coronavirus restrictions. Many have lost jobs, while the worth of their savings has evaporated as the currency has plunged in value against the dollar. The result has thrown many into poverty.\nIt also comes amid rising tensions between Israel and the militant Hezbollah group along Lebanon’s southern border.\nThe explosion was reminiscent of massive blasts during Lebanon’s civil war and took place only three days before a UN-backed tribunal was set to give its verdict in the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in a truck bombing more than 15 years ago. That explosion, with a ton of explosives, was felt miles away, just like Tuesday’s explosion.\nIt was the latest chapter for a country that has suffered a 15-year civil war, repeated conflict with Israel, political assassinations and various other crises including the current unprecedented financial and economic crisis.}}
{{The 2020 Presidential election was legal.\nThose that used their partisanship to undermine our democracy and inflame passions reaped what they sowed yesterday.\nBut we can’t ignore the fact that tens of millions of Americans think there was a lot of unfairness in how the election was conducted. I am in no position to judge those criticisms of unfairness—which is far different than whether the election was legal.\nHow does Biden begin to unite the country in the wake of so much anger and partisanship?\nI would suggest the place to begin is over the fairness of our elections.\nFair or unfair, Covid has brought a sea change to our elections with so many ballots now being mailed in with states last year scrambling to rework their rules to conduct those elections.\nThe states run elections, not the federal government. But a national examination of our election process with the goal of establishing a gold standard for how they should be conducted—a bipartisan gold standard—would go a long way toward giving legislatures a guideline to improve their election laws and procedures. And, restore confidence in our electoral system.\nYesterday, Mike Pence showed that, above all else, he stands for the Constitution and the rule of law.\nHow could Biden initiate such an election examination more committed to bipartisanship and unity than to ask Mike Pence to lead a blue ribbon group to examine the election—not to further undermine our confidence in it, but rather to learn from 2020 and give state legislators the help they need in creating widespread confidence in the next election?}}
{{https://www.dailywire.com/news/wife-of-ex-cop-charged-with-george-floyds-death-files-for-divorce\nThe wife of the ex-cop who was fired and arrested for the death of George Floyd has reportedly filed for divorce.\nKellie Chauvin, wife of ex-officer Derek Chauvin, said through attorneys that she was planning a “dissolution of her marriage” over the incident, Fox35 Orlando reported.\n“She is devastated by Mr. Floyd’s death,” a statement reportedly on behalf of Kellie and her family said, according to Fox. “Her utmost sympathy lies with his family, his loved ones and with everyone who is grieving.”\n“She has filed for dissolution of her marriage, ” the statement continued.\nFox35 further reported that Kellie doesn’t have any children from her current marriage to Derek, but it is unclear how long the couple has been married.\nDerek Chauvin was one of four officers fired for the altercation that led to Floyd’s death. Floyd was being questioned about allegedly using fake money when officers surrounded him. The incident was eventually filmed, showing Floyd on the ground with Chauvin’s knee pressed to his neck for nearly nine minutes. All the while, Floyd can be heard saying “I can’t breathe.” He was taken to a nearby hospital where he was pronounced dead.\nThe death occurred on May 25. Chauvin on Friday was arrested and charged with 3rd-degree murder and manslaughter charges. CNN reported Saturday that Chauvin’s bail was set at $500,000, according to the criminal complaint filed against him in the 4th Judicial District Court of Minnesota.\n“According to the document, there have been no conditions set for his release,” CNN reported. “The document doesn’t indicate that Chauvin is out on bail, but it does say that if he does bond out, bail is set for $500,000. The order of detention box is not checked because Chauvin was not ordered detained or remanded.”\nThe New York Post reported that “Chauvin had 18 prior complaints filed against him with the Minneapolis Police Department’s Internal Affairs,” prior to Floyd’s death.\nIn response to the police-involved death of Floyd, riots have broken out across the country, most notably in Minneapolis, Atlanta, New York City, and Washington, D.C., where demonstrators have burned cars and buildings and damaged and looted local businesses.\nThe Daily Wire reported that rioters attack a Fox News crew Friday night with bottles, even stealing the reporter’s microphone and throwing it at him. CNN’s Atlanta Headquarters had windows smashed and its sign spray-painted as protesters climbed on the building while waving Black Lives Matter flags. A CNN crew was also mistakenly arrested in Minneapolis while covering the riots. The network continues to maintain that the protests are peaceful, even as its own reporters are attacked.\nFox News released statements of support for the CNN employees who have been harmed but CNN has not done the same for Fox.\nThe Daily Wire, headed by bestselling author and popular podcast host Ben Shapiro, is a leading provider of conservative news, cutting through the mainstream media’s rhetoric to provide readers the most important, relevant, and engaging stories of the day. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.\nShare this: Twitter\nFacebook}}
{{Five Indians suffered minor injuries in the deadly explosion that ravaged the Lebanese capital of Beirut earlier this week, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday.\nMinistry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava also said India has sought from the Lebanese government an assessment of damage caused by the blast, based on which it will decide on the nature of assistance it will extend to the West Asian country.\n"There was a tweet from our embassy. There have been no reported casualties amongst the Indian community there. There have been five minor injuries which have been reported," Srivastava said.\n"Our embassy is in touch with the community associations and it is extending all necessary assistance," he said.\nTuesday's blast, which killed more than 130 people, wounded thousands and left tens of thousands homeless, is believed to have been caused when a fire touched off a stockpile of 2,750 tons of highly explosive ammonium nitrate that authorities left sitting in a warehouse for years, according to reports.}}
{{The announcement of the attorney general, along with other senior leaders of the Justice Department, is expected to be made as soon as Thursday as Biden moves closer to filling the remaining seats in his Cabinet before assuming power on January 20.\nBiden has selected Lisa Monaco, a former homeland security adviser in the Obama administration who has become a close aide to Biden, to be the deputy attorney general, according to a person familiar with the decision.\nThe President-elect has selected Vanita Gupta, who served as principal deputy assistant attorney general and led the civil rights division at the Department of Justice under President Barack Obama, to be associate attorney general, and Kristen Clarke, the president and executive director of the National Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, to be assistant attorney general for civil rights, the person said.\nGarland was chosen by Biden for attorney general over former Alabama Sen. Doug Jones and former acting attorney general Sally Yates, the two other finalists for the position.\nWhile Garland has been a top contender for weeks, concerns about the vacancy his selection would create on the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia raised alarm bells among Biden and many advisers who believed Senate Republicans would block any nomination to that seat. But with Democrats poised to control the Senate after two Georgia runoff races, those concerns were allayed.\n“Judge Garland will be viewed in a whole new light now,” a top Biden ally tells CNN.\nPolitico first reported the pick.\nLate last month, Biden told reporters he was not waiting until the Georgia races were finished to make his decision. But this week, that’s exactly what he is doing. Advisers insist a variety of factors led to the decision of Garland, but acknowledged that the long, often-criticized deliberations of Biden actually paid off in this case.\nGarland, who in recent weeks has stepped away from hearing cases on the bench to prepare for the prospect of the nomination, steadily emerged as a leading contender over the last two months since Biden won the election.\nThe revelation that there is a federal investigation into the taxes and business dealings of Hunter Biden, the President-elect’s son, also contributed to those pushing Garland.\nDefenders of Garland argued he would be a particularly strong choice to lead the Justice Department in the post-Trump era because he is seen as above reproach of partisan politics. Some allies describe him as a “Boy Scout,” which is intended to suggest he would be seen as a non-political figure.\nIn the end, a confluence of factors drove the decision, but people familiar with the matter say it’s largely because of how Biden believes Garland can rise above politics in the post-Trump era.\nPresident Donald Trump’s escalating post-election antics have solidified Biden’s view of choosing Garland, people familiar with the matter say, as Biden believes the nation demands competence and craves unity.\nObama nominated Garland to the Supreme Court after a vacancy was created by the death of Justice Antonin Scalia in 2016. But Republicans, led by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, refused for months to hold confirmation hearings or the required vote in the chamber.\nWhen Trump took office, Garland’s nomination expired and he returned to his position as chief judge of the US Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit. The court is charged with reviewing challenges to administrative agencies. He stepped down from the position as chief judge in February 2020, but still serves on the court. President Bill Clinton appointed him to the court in 1997.\nPrior to his appointment as a US circuit judge, Garland served as principal associate deputy attorney general. He supervised the investigation of the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, which killed more than 160 people and injured several hundred more. Garland also led the investigations of the 1996 Olympics bombing in Atlanta, in which two people died and more than 100 others were injured.\nGarland led the investigation into Ted Kaczynski, also known as “The Unabomber,” who is currently serving eight life sentences for murder. He killed three people and injured more than 20 others with a string of mail bombings.\nThe judge served as an assistant US attorney for the District of Columbia from 1989 to 1992, and as deputy assistant attorney general in the criminal division of the Justice Department from 1993 to 1994.\nGarland’s nomination will disappoint those who had pressured Biden to nominate a person of color as attorney general.\nBiden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris met last month with civil rights leaders and members of the NAACP, who have been pressuring Biden to diversify his Cabinet and create a position within the White House for a civil rights czar. The Rev. Al Sharpton said at a news conference after the meeting that Biden should choose an attorney general with a civil rights background and said his preference would be a Black nominee.\nSharpton said mentioned as potential picks former Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick and Tony West, the senior vice president and chief legal officer at Uber who was previously the associate attorney general of the United States under the Obama administration.\nClarke said at the same news conference that whoever is selected as attorney general “must have a clear and bold record when it comes to civil rights and racial justice.”\nThis story has been updated with additional reporting and background information about Garland.}}
{{BEIRUT (CNN) - A glowing, smiling bride was in the middle of her wedding photo shoot when suddenly the force of a massive explosion knocked her over.\nVideo captured the special moment turning into chaos, as the bride can later be seen being whisked away into a building.\nDr. Israa Seblani posed for photos a short walk from the luxury wedding venue in downtown Beirut. As Seblani smiles and looks down at her bouquet, horror strikes.\nThe couple and the video crew run for cover, destruction all around them.\n“At that moment, one thing I think about: Now, I’m losing my life,” Seblani said. “I’m losing my husband. I’m going to be buried under a building. Now, I am going to die. Now, I am waiting for that moment, how am I going to die? Is it going to be fast, am I going to feel it, am I going to be near him?”\nThe original plan was to have the wedding party in the U.S., but husband Ahmad Sbeih says he has been waiting for his visa for three years. With immigration laws getting stricter under the Trump administration, the couple says they didn't want to be apart any longer.\nThey finally settled on celebrating their marriage in Beirut with friends and family, in the city where their love first blossomed.\n"That beautiful place I was in, and where people were dining in restaurants, shopping, walking, it turned into a ghost town, filled with dust shuttered glasses, people yelling, bleeding," Seblani said. "It was a nightmare."\nSeblani recorded an earlier view of the bridal suite where she and Sbeih planned to spend the night after the party, "oohing" and "ahhing" over the flourishes.\nWhen the couple returned, the red rose petals thrown off the bed were all that remained of the romance they had envisioned.\nAhmad Sbeih: "Of course, we are alive and can continue," Sbeih said. "And don't be sad or anything. We will continue, we will pass it and we will make it, Inshallah."\nIn a city where life was turned upside down in seconds, Seblani and Sbeih are grateful to be alive.\n"There is no word to describe really what I feel, no matter how I talk," she said.\nCopyright 2020 CNN. AFP contributed to the report. All rights reserved.}}
{{The scale of devastation from Tuesday's Beirut blast can be seen in new satellite images that provide a sobering perspective of the pair of explosions that killed more than 100 people, injured 4,000 others and leveled several warehouses and buildings in the surrounding area.\nThe new pictures from ISI Imagesat International show massive damage to the city's industrial waterfront following the blasts that erupted next to the Beirut Port Silos.\nSide-by-side satellite images of the Beirut blast before and after (Photo: ISI Imagesat International)\nHospitals were also damaged and windows shattered miles away as the shockwave from the explosion moved from the industrial waterfront to the city's residential areas and shopping districts. The blast also changed the shoreline in the port, according to local reports.\nInitially, President Trump claimed a bomb might have gone off in the city -- a statement that was contradicted by U.S. military officials as well as those in Lebanon.\nThe investigation into the Beirut blast seemed to show years of neglect over the storage of highly explosive materials, an official source familiar with the findings told Reuters.\nSatellite image of the aftermath of Beirut blast. (Photo credit: ISI Imagesat International)\nAdvertisement\nBoaz Hayoun, owner of the Tamar Group, an Israeli firm that works closely with the Israeli government on safety and certification issues involving explosives, told The Associated Press that before the big explosion, in the center of the fire, "you can see sparks, you can hear sounds like popcorn and you can hear whistles. This is very specific behavior of fireworks, the visuals, the sounds, and the transformation from a slow burn to a massive explosion."\nThe blast, based on the crater and glass windows being blown out a distance away, exploded with the force equivalent to detonating at least 2.2 kilotons of TNT, Sim Tack, an analyst and weapons expert at the Texas-based private intelligence firm Stratfor, said.\nTuesday's explosion was the most powerful ever felt in Beirut, a city still scarred by a civil war that started three decades ago and crippled by a financial crisis rooted in years of corruption and economic mismanagement.\nThe head of Beirut Port, as well as the head of customs, said Wednesday that several attempts had been made asking for the dangerous materials involved in the blast to be removed but that no action by the judiciary had been taken.\nFireworks and 2,700 tons of ammonium nitrate confiscated from a cargo ship in 2014 are believed to have been the fuel that ignited the massive explosion.\nTuesday's blast also damaged a UNIFIL maritime task force ship that was docked at the port. A few UNIFIL naval peacekeepers were also injured, some of them seriously, according to a statement from the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon.\nThe Associated Press contributed to this report.\nGet updates to this story on FOXNews.com.}}
{{https://hannity.com/media-room/battleground-georgia-trump-pence-biden-obama-target-voters-in-the-peach-state-before-election/\nBIDEN IN CAROLINA: ‘My Name is Joe Biden, I’m a Democratic Candidate for the United States Senate’\nposted by Hannity Staff – 2.25.20\nFormer Vice President Joe Biden continued his gaffe-ridden campaign in South Carolina this week; bizarrely telling the crowd he’s running for the United States Senate.\n“My name is Joe Biden. I’m a Democratic candidate for the United States Senate. Look me over, if you like what you see, help out. If not, vote for the other Biden,” he told supporters just days before the South Carolina primary.\nBiden made similar comments earlier this month, delivering a speech in Nevada where he called for innovative solutions like they’ve implemented “Here in California.”\n“The new technologies are capable of doing so much more. For example, there’s no reason why -at our ports- we don’t have solar capacity to be able to make sure we save a lot of energy, create a lot of new jobs for people out there, just like here in California… I mean… here in Nevada,” said Biden.\n“Here in California” – Joe Biden, while in Nevada pic.twitter.com/77zMaSWynG — Abigail Marone (@abigailmarone) February 16, 2020\nWatch Biden’s comments above.}}
{{(CNN) — Satellite images, obtained by CNN from Planet Labs Inc., show a massive crater at the site of Tuesday’s explosion in Beirut’s port.\nThe images show nearly every building has either sustained significant damage or has been destroyed by the blast.\nMassive grain silos that sit in the middle of the peninsula are still standing. A large, water-filled crater has replaced the ground where two port buildings stood.\nEvery building to the immediate south of the port appears to have sustained significant damage. Some barely have their framework still standing and others have been reduced to rubble.\nDamage from the explosion reached a peninsula directly east of the blast site. Not only has a building there been blown away, but a boat in front of it appears to have been blown onto its side.\nIn an adjoining neighborhood to the east there appears to be roof damage as well.\nFurther west of the site of the explosion more port buildings appear to have suffered significant roof damage.\nAccording to Lebanon’s Prime Minister, Hassan Diab, 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate, exploded on Tuesday. Ammonium nitrate is a highly explosive material used in fertilizers.\nThe explosion killed dozens, injured thousands and blew out windows in buildings across Lebanon’s capital city.\nThe blast created a huge mushroom cloud and shockwave that was felt as far away as Cyprus, about 150 miles away. It registered as a magnitude 3.3 earthquake.\nThe-CNN-Wire™ & © 2020 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.}}
{{Demonstrators gather for a solidarity rally in memory of the deceased George Floyd and Daunte Wright outside Cup Foods, Sunday, April 18, 2021, in Minneapolis. (AP Photo/John Minchillo) AP\nThe jury has reached a verdict at the murder trial of former Minneapolis police Officer Derek Chauvin in the death of George Floyd. The verdict is to be read late Tuesday afternoon.\nFloyd died last May after Chauvin, a white officer, pinned his knee on the 46-year-old Black man’s neck for about 9 1/2 minutes in a case that triggered worldwide protests, violence and a furious reexamination of racism and policing in the U.S.\nThe jury deliberated over parts of two days in a city on edge against another outbreak of unrest.\nTHIS IS A BREAKING NEWS UPDATE. AP’s earlier story follows below.\nMINNEAPOLIS (AP) — The jury at former Officer Derek Chauvin's murder trial in George Floyd's death deliberated for a second day Tuesday in a city skittish over the outcome as President Joe Biden weighed in by saying he believes the case is “overwhelming.”\nThe racially diverse jury — anonymous and sequestered from the outside world — resumed deliberations in the morning as lawmakers and fellow citizens alike delivered their own opinions about the combustible case that triggered protests, scattered violence and a reckoning over racism in the U.S.\n“It shouldn’t be really even questioned whether there will be an acquittal or a verdict that doesn’t meet the scale of the crime that was committed,” Rep. Ilhan Omar, a Democrat, said in Brooklyn Center, a suburb just outside Minneapolis. The congresswoman said the Chauvin case looks open-and-shut.\nGuilty verdicts could mark a turning point in the fight for racial equality, she said.\n“We are holding on to one another for support. Hopefully this verdict will come soon and the community will start the process of healing,” Omar said.\nIn Washington, the president said that he had spoken to Floyd’s family on Monday and “can only imagine the pressure and anxiety they’re feeling.”\n“They’re a good family and they’re calling for peace and tranquility no matter what that verdict is,” Biden said. “I’m praying the verdict is the right verdict. I think it’s overwhelming, in my view. I wouldn’t say that unless the jury was sequestered now.”\nThe president has repeatedly denounced Floyd’s death but previously stopped short of commenting on the trial itself.\nProsecutors argued that Chauvin squeezed the life out of Floyd last May when the white officer knelt on or near the 46-year-old Black man's neck for 9 1/2 minutes. The defense contended that the now-fired white officer acted reasonably and that a heart condition and illegal drug use led to Floyd's death.\nThe jury of six white people and six people who are Black or multiracial spent just a few hours on their task Monday after the day was mostly consumed by closing arguments. They will remain sequestered until verdicts are reached.\nChauvin, 45, is charged with second-degree murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter The most serious charge carries up to 40 years in prison.\nAhead of a verdict, some stores were boarded up in Minneapolis, the courthouse was ringed with concrete barriers and razor wire, and National Guard troops were on patrol. Last spring, Floyd’s death set off protests along with vandalism and arson in Minneapolis.\nThe city has also been on edge in recent days over the deadly police shooting of a 20-year-old Black man, Daunte Wright, in Brooklyn Center on April 11.\nBrooklyn Center Mayor Mike Elliott joined a group of residents Tuesday to call for transparency and accountability in policing.\nThe mayor said he has met with Wright’s family several times and vowed to “do all that’s within our power to make sure that we are implementing the kind of changes that would prevent another Daunte."\n“What this community is saying is that his life is going to continue to matter," Elliott said.\nDoris Rendell, who is Black, burst into tears as she was standing in front of a memorial set up at the site of Daunte Wright’s death. She says the Wright case and the Floyd case reminded her of her own negative interactions with police when she was young.\n“It’s terrible, it’s terrible to be black, to say that... It is. There’s so much racism out here, it’s pathetic ... It’s like there’s no justice in the world for us. It’s like we’re a piece of a bean in a pie just getting picked off, just no one cares.\nAfter the jury got the Chauvin case Monday, Judge Peter Cahill rejected a defense request for a mistrial based in part on comments from California Rep. Maxine Waters, who said “we’ve got to get more confrontational” if Chauvin isn’t convicted of murder.\nThe judge called her comments “abhorrent” and “disrespectful to the rule of law and to the judicial branch” and told Chauvin’s attorney that Waters “may have given you something on appeal that may result in this whole trial being overturned.”\nStill, two defense attorneys in Minnesota said they consider a successful appeal over remarks like Waters’ or Biden’s extremely unlikely.\n“Anybody who thinks undue publicity is going to get a case reversed in this day and age is just wrong,” said Joe Friedberg, who is unconnected to the case. “Just from a pragmatic standpoint, with social media, I don’t think it can ever be done again.”\nBrock Hunter, past president of the Minnesota Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, said a successful appeal would be unlikely unless there were direct evidence that Waters' statements affected jurors.\n___\nWebber reported from Fenton, Michigan. Associated Press video journalist Angie Wang in Atlanta and Associated Press writers Doug Glass, in Minneapolis, Mohamed Ibrahim in Brooklyn Center, Minnesota, and Todd Richmond in Madison, Wisconsin, contributed.}}
{{The violence in Detroit and many other cities was sparked by anger over over Floyd’s death in Minneapolis on Monday, which was captured on cellphone video. It led to the firing Tuesday of the four police officers who were arresting Floyd on for suspicion of passing a counterfeit bill and to third-degree murder and manslaughter charges being filed Friday against the officer who used his knee to pin Floyd down by his neck for more than eight minutes, even as Floyd pleaded for air and went limp.}}
{{In a campaign video meant to show the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee's love for cars, Joe Biden may have let loose a loosely held secret about an all-electric C8 Corvette.\n"They tell me, and I'm looking forward if it's true to driving one, that they'e making an electric Corvette (that can) go 200 miles an hour," Biden said in the "Joe Biden Gets Vetted" video released this week.\nRumors of an electric Corvette have swirled since before the C8's release. Did someone at General Motors tell Biden it's coming? A GM spokeswoman told the Detroit Free Press nobody told Biden about such a car and that GM doesn't comment on speculation.\nHowever, the Free Press reported that it had been tipped off by someone familiar with production at the Corvette's Bowling Green Assembly in Kentucky that Chevrolet does have plans for an all-electric Corvette.\nThe Corvette's structure would easily support an electric powertrain. The electric motors and battery pack could fit amidships where the current engine is, in the central tunnel that currently houses the transmission, and/or in the front trunk.\nBiden believes electric cars can revitalize the U.S. auto industry.\n"I believe we can own the 21st century market again by moving to electric vehicles," he said in the 90-second video.\nAlternatively, Biden could have confused the possible hybrid model, likely called the Zora, with an electric car. The Zora may feature a hybridized twin-turbo 5.5-liter flat-crank V-8 that 1,000 horsepower and 975 pound-feet of torque, according to reports. Such a car would certainly top 200 mph.\nIn the video, Biden drives his C2 Corvette convertible in his trademark Aviator sunglasses and says he used to consider himself a good driver. He also notes that his dad could really drive a car. The ad was produced by Joe Biden for President.}}
{{“We’ve just spoken recently with the district attorney. We’re going to take custody back of George Floyd’s body, and we’re bringing in Dr. Michael Baden to perform an independent autopsy because we saw in the Eric Garner case and so many other cases where they have these people who work with the city come up with things that are such an illusion,” Crump said during a press conference.}}
{{The unusually cool weather we have been dealing with will stick around for one more day before moderation moves in Thursday. There could be some…}}
{{Donald Trump’s unsubstantiated claim that the massive explosion in Beirut was a bomb attack has revived fears of the president’s potential to foment international crises.\nIn off-the-cuff remarks at the White House on Tuesday, Trump called the blast a “terrible attack”.\n“I’ve met with some of our great generals and they just seem to feel that this was not some kind of a manufacturing explosion type of event,” the president told reporters. “It was a bomb of some kind.”\nSoon after, CNN quoted Pentagon officials as saying there was no evidence of any attack, raising the question of where Trump got his information. Lebanese officials were reported to have sought urgent clarification from US diplomats.\nThe defence secretary, Mark Esper, said on Wednesday: “Most believe that it was an accident as reported.” But he added that the Pentagon was still gathering information about the explosion.\nIn a statement about Beirut, the state department referred to the “horrible explosion” but made no mention of an attack.\nThe Beirut government says the explosion was caused by a warehouse full of ammonium nitrate igniting, though the initial cause of the fire is still unclear.\nThe White House gave no guidance on Wednesday as to whether Trump had received a top secret intelligence briefing, had seen something on Twitter – or just made up the claim and imagined a conversation with US generals.\nIt has become the norm for US officials to quietly correct the thicket of mistakes and lies embedded in Trump’s daily discourse, but applied to a fragile and volatile corner of the world, the stakes are higher.\n“I would advise against listening to Donald Trump at the best of times, let alone the worst,” Tom Fletcher, a former British ambassador to Lebanon, said.\n“You can’t show up unprepared for the Middle East. Careless messaging from the White House has consequences, even when no one takes the tweeter seriously. I hope future American presidents will try to help put out fires in the region, not fan them.”\nThe Democratic senator Chris Murphy said on Twitter: “Before the explosion, Lebanon was already in dire crisis, with a collapsed economy and sectarian tensions at a boiling point.\n“I can’t imagine anything worse right now than Trump making unfounded claims of an ‘attack’,” Murphy added. “Could set off something truly awful in Lebanon.”\nThe worst nightmare looming over the Trump administration is that the president might shoot from the hip at the White House podium during a nuclear standoff.\nIn his documentary-style novel, The 2020 Commission Report on the North Korean Nuclear Attacks Against the United States, academic and nuclear expert Jeffrey Lewis imagines a scenario in which the US slides into a devastating conflict, propelled by the president’s impulsive tweets and remarks.\n“I would feel a lot better if the real world looked less like my book,” Lewis said on Wednesday.}}
{{Tap here to find us on Facebook! Aberdeen News shares its savings, sweepstakes, promotions, winners, and more — join the group and be alerted to new promotions, get exclusive and first access, score extra chances to win and much more!}}
{{HOUSTON, Texas -- When a man saw live coverage of the protests in Houston over the death of George Floyd, he decided to do something about the damage done."I just took a shower, I told my wife, 'I'm going to go down there and wipe off all that graffiti,' and I got my pressure washer," said Brian Irving.Irving was seen cleaning off a portion of a federal building Saturday around 2 a.m.He said he was spending four hours overnight doing what he could for the city he's lived in and loved for more than 50 years."I said 'let me go down there and let me clean up my city,'" Irving said. "What came to my mind was what JFK said - 'Ask not what your country can do for you but ask what you can do for your country.' I'm coming down here to put my little bit in."Irving said he's a truck driver by day, but Saturday morning he was determined to use elbow grease to erase vandalism.He said he understands the anger, but not the destruction."We can protest, but we don't have to destroy the city," said Irving.}}
{{https://www.registercitizen.com/news/article/Alert-Lebanese-health-minister-says-at-least-50-15458174.php\nAlert: Lebanese health minister says at least 50 people were killed and 2,700 injured in the Beirut explosion.}}
{{If you have an event you'd like to list on the site, submit it now!\nGo to form}}
{{In this image from video, defense attorney Eric Nelson, left, and defendant, former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin, speak to Hennepin County Judge PeterCahill after the judge has put the trial into the hands of the jury. Monday, April 19, 2021, in the trial of Chauvin, in the May 25, 2020, death of George Floyd at the Hennepin County Courthouse in Minneapolis, Minn. (Court TV via AP, Pool)\nMINNEAPOLIS – The jury reached a verdict Tuesday at the murder trial of former Officer Derek Chauvin in the death of George Floyd, the Black man who was pinned to the pavement with a knee on his neck in a case that set off a furious reexamination of racism and policing in the U.S.\nThe verdict, arrived at after about 10 hours of deliberations over two days, was to be read late in the afternoon in a city on edge against the possibility of more unrest like that that erupted last spring.\nThe courthouse was ringed with concrete barriers and razor wire, and thousands of National Guardsmen and other law enforcement officers were brought in ahead of the verdict.\nFloyd died last May after Chauvin, a 45-year-old now-fired white officer, pinned his knee on the 46-year-old Black man’s neck for about 9 1/2 minutes.\nThe verdict is expected between 4:30 p.m. and 5 p.m.\nWatch live coverage below:}}
{{Lebanon’s Prime Minster Hassan Diab has resigned alongside all members of his entire government after a massive explosion in Beirut that killed more than 160 people.\nProtesters had stormed the street after the explosion demanding a change of government.\nThe explosion is reported to have been caused by 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate used as fertiliser and in explosives which was left for six years.\nLosses from the explosion are estimated to be between £8 billion to £12 billion and nearly 300,000 people were left homeless.\nDiab while addressing the nation on Monday announced his resignation and all members of his cabinet although some ministers had already resigned alongside seven parliamentarians.\nDozens of protesters threw stones, fireworks and Molotov cocktails at security forces who responded with several rounds of tear gas. Some demonstrators tried to scale the blast walls outside Parliament Square before the Prime Minster’s speech.\nLebanon was already suffering through its worst economic crisis in decades, coupled with rising coronavirus rates, and the government has been plagued by accusations of corruption and gross mismanagement.\nThe blast which occured Tuesday last week damaged much of the Lebanese capital and was linked to a long-neglected stash of potentially explosive chemicals.\nDiab came into power last December, two months after a popular uprising brought down the previous government.\nHis government is composed of technocrats and had been supported by major political parties, including the Iran-backed political and militant group Hezbollah.\nThe country begin the search for the third prime minister in less than a year, to contend with the spiralling crises Lebanon faces on a number of fronts.\nThe government had been seen as powerless in the face of a growing banking crisis. The state has not passed a capital controls law, exacerbating the country’s severe liquidity crunch.\nThe majority of people in the country have been subject to stringent and arbitrary cash withdrawal limits for nearly a year. Meanwhile, billions of US dollars are widely believed to have been withdrawn from Lebanon by the country’s economic elite, further depleting foreign currency reserves.\nLebanon’s financial woes were exacerbated earlier this year by government-imposed lockdowns, designed to stop the spread of the coronavirus pandemic but which also brought the country’s ailing economy to a screeching halt.\nDiab’s ministers had repeatedly accused the ruling class of disrupting their plans for reform.}}
{{Michelle Obama took to social media to share her thoughts on the killing of George Floyd, and how to move forward as a country. (Photo: Scott Olson/Getty Images)\nMichelle Obama took to social media Friday to share her perspective on the death of George Floyd, an unarmed black man who was killed by a white police officer in Minneapolis on Monday.\n“Like so many of you, I’m pained by these recent tragedies. And I’m exhausted by a heartbreak that never seems to stop. Right now it’s George, Breonna, and Ahmaud. Before that it was Eric, Sandra, and Michael,” wrote Obama referencing the recent killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery — as well as those of Eric Garner, Sandra Bland, and Michael Brown. “It just goes on, and on, and on.”\nScroll to continue with content Ad\nObama also gave her perspective on how the nation can potentially move forward. “Race and racism is a reality that so many of us grow up learning to just deal with,” she wrote. “But if we ever hope to move past it, it can’t just be on people of color to deal with it. It’s up to all of us—Black, white, everyone—no matter how well-meaning we think we might be, to do the honest, uncomfortable work of rooting it out. It starts with self-examination and listening to those whose lives are different from our own. It ends with justice, compassion, and empathy that manifests in our lives and on our streets.”\nOn Friday, former President Barack Obama also shared a statement on the death of Floyd tweeting, “This shouldn’t be ‘normal’ in 2020 America. It can’t be ‘normal.’ If we want our children to grow up in a nation that lives up to its highest ideals, we can and must be better.”\nMy statement on the death of George Floyd: pic.twitter.com/Hg1k9JHT6R — Barack Obama (@BarackObama) May 29, 2020\nIn their statements, the former first couple stressed the amount of work needed to heal the country’s wounds. “It falls on all of us,” President Obama wrote. “Regardless of our race or station — including the majority of men and women in law enforcement who take pride in doing their tough job the right way, every day — to work together to create a ‘new normal’ in which the legacy of bigotry and unequal treatment no longer infects our institutions or our hearts.”\nStory continues\nMichelle also noted the long road ahead, ending her Friday statement with, “I pray we all have the strength for that journey, just as I pray for the souls and the families of those who were taken from us.”\nRead more from Yahoo Entertainment:}}
{{Topline\nDays before Election Day, the polling picture remains incredibly consistent: Joe Biden continues to enjoy a wide lead nationally and in battlegrounds Michigan and Wisconsin, while he holds a smaller but steady lead in Arizona, Pennsylvania, North Carolina and Florida.\nFLINT, MI - OCTOBER 31: Former U.S. President Barack Obama and Democratic presidential nominee Joe ... [+] Biden wave to the crowd at the end of a drive-in campaign rally at Northwestern High School on October 31, 2020 in Flint, Michigan. Biden is campaigning with former President Obama on Saturday in Michigan, a battleground state that President Donald Trump narrowly won in 2016. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images) Getty Images\nKey Facts\nAn NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll out Sunday showed Biden up 10 points nationally (52%-42%), mirroring average national averages. For months, Biden’s average national polling lead has hovered around 8-10 points, and has never dipped below 6.6 points. A trove of New York Times/Siena College polls showed Biden ahead in four key battleground states: the Democratic nominee leads by 3 points in Florida (47%-44%), 6 points in Arizona (49%-43%), 6 points in Pennsylvania (49%-43%), and 11 points in Wisconsin (52-41%). ABC News/Washington Post polls out Sunday showed Biden ahead by 7 points in Pennsylvania (51%-44%), but behind 2 points in Florida (50%-48%), one of the few bright spots for the president in recent polling. The results Sunday—and from the last several weeks—show how steady polling has remained: Biden holds a large average lead in Wisconsin (8.7 points) and Michigan (8.5 points), two states that narrowly went to Trump in 2016. In four other battlegrounds, the former vice president’s lead is narrower: on average, Biden leads by 1.8 points in Florida, 4.9 points in Pennsylvania, 3.4 points in Arizona, and 2.6 points in North Carolina, polling leads that have not changed really at all in weeks.\nCrucial Quote\nNate Cohn, a polling analyst for the New York Times writes that Biden is in a “stronger position heading into Election Day than any presidential candidate since at least 2008.”\nKey Background\nFour year ago, polling analysts were singing a similar tune, only to watch Trump outpace polling and defeat Clinton by narrowly winning Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania. However, this year, Biden’s national lead is stronger than Clinton’s was, and he would currently withstand a 2016-like polling misfire. Pollsters say they’ve corrected some of the errors that happened in 2016, when state polls didn’t weigh education level accurately. There are also fewer undecided voters than last presidential election. On the other hand, Trump still stands a small chance of winning, but he’d have to thread the needle in the Electoral College—by winning Pennsylvania, Florida, and at least two other battleground states—and polls would have to be off by even more than they were in 2016. One other factor working in Trump’s favor is the uncertainty surrounding holding an election during a pandemic. Laura Bonner, a polling editor for FiveThirtyEight, explains the pandemic has changed voter behavior, so it’s hard for pollsters to “infer trends.” Rules surrounding voting are also in flux, making it “harder to estimate turnout in advance.”\nTangent\nOn Sunday, a Des Moines Register/Ann Selzer poll of Iowa showed Trump up 7 points in the state (48%-41%), perhaps the best polling result for Trump of the race. Four years ago, Selzer—a highly respected poll—forecast Trump’s strength with white, working class voters in the Midwest when it then showed Trump up seven points over Clinton in Iowa. “The poll is legitimately good news for the president, and it should be taken seriously,” Cohn writes for the New York Times. “But taking a poll seriously does not entail taking it to the bank — not even if it’s the well-regarded Selzer poll.”\nFurther Reading\nTrump Can Still Win, But The Polls Would Have To Be Off By Way More Than In 2016 (FiveThirtyEight)\nElection at Hand, Biden Leads Trump in Four Key States, Poll Shows (New York Times)}}
{{Presidential candidate Joe Biden and President Donald Trump talk to voters and argue with each other during their first debate in Cleveland. Both are campaigning in battleground Florida. AFP\nWe’re keeping track of the latest news regarding the campaigns, early voting and other political news in South Florida and around the state. Check back for updates throughout the day.\nOne last home-stretch push\nIn addition to “Souls to the Polls” drives across South Florida to get out the vote, President Donald Trump will hold an 11:30 p.m. rally at Opa-locka airport as hotly contested elections for U.S. president (Trump vs. Joe Biden), Miami-Dade mayor (Daniella Levine Cava vs. Esteban Bovo) and a couple of U.S. House of Representatives seats (incumbent Democrat Donna Shalala vs. Republican Maria Elvira Salazar for Florida’s 27th Congressional District, incumbent Democrat Debbie Mucarsel-Powell vs. Republican Carlos Gimenez for Florida’s 26th Congressional District) reach the last two days.\nFor more, on this story, read here.\nI don't know who needs to hear this but if you have a mail ballot, don't put it in the mail. Walk it in to a drop box. Or bring it with you to turn over to poll workers and vote in person. — David Smiley (@NewsbySmiley) November 1, 2020\nThe importance of Miami-Dade to Trump’s re-election hopes\nTrump won Florida despite being routed in Miami-Dade in 2016. But he’s hoping a smaller margin of defeat in 2020 makes up for possible losses of support elsewhere in the state, thus allowing him to win Florida again, which would be a major push toward re-election.\nFor a more detailed look at Trump and Miami-Dade, read the full story here.\nKamala Harris in South Florida as Dems plead for Black voters\nHer presence making clear how pivotal support from South Florida’s Black community is to Joe Biden’s hopes of winning Florida, Democratic Vice Presidential nominee Kamala Harris appeared at a drive-in rally at FIU’s main campus and made stops in Broward and Palm Beach counties.\nTo read what Harris said as she tried to whip up a late wave of support, read the full story here.\nThe president’s path to another ‘upset’ victory\nThe polls say Trump is heading for an Election Day defeat. But the polls said the same thing in 2016, and his campaign sees how Tuesday could end with another result that runs counter to the polls.\nTo see the layout of that path, read here.\nWho the Trump campaign considered ‘deadbeats’ in 2016\nCategorizing and targeting voters with specific advertising helped Donald Trump pull off an Electoral College win for the Presidency in 2016. But who were the voters the Trump campaign didn’t consider worth its time or effort to win over or dissuade from voting?\nThe full story, a joint effort with the United Kingdom’s Channel 4 news, can be found here.}}
{{Right now, there is a pain deeply etched in the soul of our nation and in the hearts of millions. To stand together, we must stand up for one another, and recognize the fear, hurt, and outrage rightly provoked by the senseless killing of George Floyd and a much longer history of racism.\nThat painful past is still present today — not only in the form of violence, but in the everyday experience of deeply rooted discrimination. We see it in our criminal justice system, in the disproportionate toll of disease on Black and Brown communities, in the inequalities in neighborhood services and the educations our children receive.\nWhile our laws have changed, the reality is that their protections are still not universally applied. We’ve seen progress since the America I grew up in, but it is similarly true that communities of color continue to endure discrimination and trauma.\nI have heard from so many that you feel afraid — afraid in your communities, afraid in your daily lives, and, most cruelly of all, afraid in your own skin. We can have no society worth celebrating unless we can guarantee freedom from fear for every person who gives this country their love, labor, and life.\nAt Apple, our mission has been and always will be to create technology that empowers people to change the world for the better. We’ve always drawn strength from diversity, welcomed people from every walk of life to our stores around the world, and strived to build an Apple that is inclusive of everyone.\nBut we must do more. We commit to continuing our work to bring critical resources and technology to underserved school systems. We commit to continuing to fight the forces of environmental injustice — like climate change — which disproportionately harm Black communities and other communities of color. We commit to looking inward and pushing progress forward on inclusion and diversity, so that every great idea can be heard. And we’re donating to organizations including the Equal Justice Initiative, which challenge racial injustice and mass incarceration.\nTo create change, we have to reexamine our own views and actions in light of a pain that is deeply felt but too often ignored. Issues of human dignity will not abide standing on the sidelines. To the Black community — we see you. You matter and your lives matter.\nThis is a moment when many people may want nothing more than a return to normalcy, or to a status quo that is only comfortable if we avert our gaze from injustice. As difficult as it may be to admit, that desire is itself a sign of privilege. George Floyd’s death is shocking and tragic proof that we must aim far higher than a “normal” future, and build one that lives up to the highest ideals of equality and justice.\nIn the words of Martin Luther King, “Every society has its protectors of status quo and its fraternities of the indifferent who are notorious for sleeping through revolutions. Today, our very survival depends on our ability to stay awake, to adjust to new ideas, to remain vigilant and to face the challenge of change.”\nWith every breath we take, we must commit to being that change, and to creating a better, more just world for everyone.}}
{{US Capitol Police announce security breach inside as lawmakers meet to vote to certify President-elect Biden’s victory.\nNewsletter Top headlines by email, weekday mornings\nGet top headlines from the Union-Tribune in your inbox weekday mornings, including top news, local, sports, business, entertainment and opinion.\nEnter Email Address Sign Me Up\nYou may occasionally receive promotional content from the San Diego Union-Tribune.}}
{{Overnight there was continued unrest, protests and, at times, violence across the nation as people protested the death of George Floyd.\nIt has been less than one full week since George Floyd's violent death on May 25, which has sparked a nationwide movement in response to the viral footage of the police brutality that arguably led to Floyd's death.\nAn overwhelming movement has gone global and has provoked numerous face-offs with police and now Philadelphia hosted its very own protest at City Hall in Center City on Saturday.\nRELATED COVERAGE: DEATH OF GEORGE FLOYD\nFOX 29's Kelly Rule has been live at City Hall Saturday morning to report on the preparations being made, the organization of the rally, and the goals the protestors hope to achieve.\nThe Justice for George Floyd protest began at 12 p.m. with organizers ensuring that social distancing measures will be taken as the COVID-19 pandemic continues in spite of the national movement for justice.\nFive hundred protestors participated in the rally that remained peaceful as they marched from Philadelphia's City Hall to the Art Museum.\nAdvertisement\nChopper footage of the Justice For George Floyd Protest rally at Philadelphia City Hall (May 30, 2020)\n"We’re congregating (while strictly following social distancing) to remember the lives of all those lost to police brutality by taking a knee." protest organizers wrote on the official event's Facebook page. "We will also demand an independent and anonymous citizens’ review board & body cameras for ALL police officers"\nImpassioned citizens took to the streets in Minneapolis, where the incident originated, and dozens of other US cities in a show of looting and violence.\nRELATED COVERAGE: PHILADELPHIA\nPhiladelphia's Mayor Jim Kenney addressed the current outrage in the aftermath of George Floyd's death at the hands of police during a press conference Friday.\nIn part, Mayor Kenny said:\n"Black Americans are outraged as they should be. I'm outraged too. As a white man I will never know the heartbreak and trauma the black community continues to experience. But I want black Philadelphians to know that I and other city leaders stand with them and am here to support them during this painful time. They should not have to bear witness to yet another killing of an unarmed black person.You should not have to feel as though scoiety believes your lives are less valuable than white people. And you should not fear for your lives or your loved ones when simply stepping outside the house."\nThe full report from the Hennepin County Medical Examiner remains pending, but preliminary findings from George Floyd’s autopsy revealed he likely died from a combination of underlying health conditions.\nAny potential intoxicants in his system and being restrained by police were also attributed in the preliminary medically forensic investigation into the cause of his death, according to the charges. There was no physical evidence that he died of asphyxia of strangulation.\n“Police are trained that this type of restraint with a subject in a prone position is inherently dangerous,” the charges say.\nFloyd's underlying health conditions included coronary artery disease and hypertensive heart disease.\nEx-Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin was formally charged Friday in the death of George Floyd, but many citizens say that the other officers involved need to be arrested and that Floyd's death deserves meaningful change to policing practices in the United States.\nChauvin was seen in a video kneeling on George Floyd’s neck as Floyd repeatedly says “I can’t breathe.” The officer continued to press his knee onto Floyd’s neck even after he lost consciousness. None of the other officers at the scene attempted to check on Floyd until after the ambulance arrived, despite bystanders’ pleas.\nSo far, he has been charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter.\nStay with FOX29.com as the rally begins and for updates on the latest local and breaking news.\nRELATED COVERAGE:\nFor the latest local news, sports and weather, download the FOX 29 News app.\nDOWNLOAD: FOX 29 NEWS APP}}
{{In this frame from video people walk down the street after an explosion in Beirut, Tuesday, Aug. 4, 2020. A massive explosion shook Lebanon’s capital wounding a number people and causing widespread damage. (AP Photo)\nBEIRUT (AP) — A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. More than 60 people were killed and more than 3,000 injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.\nTHIS IS A BREAKING NEWS UPDATE. AP’s earlier story follows below.\nBEIRUT (AP) — A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. At least 50 people were killed and 2,700 injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.\nHours later, ambulances still carried away the wounded as army helicopters helped battle fires raging at the port.\nThe sudden devastation overwhelmed a country already struggling with both the coronavirus pandemic and an economic crisis: Beirut hospitals quickly filled beyond capacity, pleading for blood supplies and generators to keep their lights on.\nThe cause of the blast, which sparked fires, overturned cars and blew out windows and doors, was not immediately known.\nAbbas Ibrahim, chief of Lebanese General Security, said it might have been caused by highly explosive material that was confiscated from a ship some time ago and stored at the port. Local television channel LBC said the material was sodium nitrate.\nWitnesses reported seeing a strange orange-colored cloud over the site after the explosion. Orange clouds of toxic nitrogen dioxide gas often accompany an explosion involving nitrates.\nAn Israeli government official said Israel “had nothing to do” with the blast. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter with the media. Israeli officials usually do not comment on “foreign reports.”\nThe blast was stunning even for a city that has seen civil war, suicide bombings and bombardment by Israel. It could be heard and felt as far away as Cyprus, more than 200 kilometers (180 miles) across the Mediterranean.\n“It was a real horror show. I haven’t seen anything like that since the days of the (civil) war,” said Marwan Ramadan, who was about 500 meters (yards) from the port and was knocked off his feet by the force of the explosion.\nHealth Minister Hassan Hamad said the preliminary toll was at least 50 dead and 2,700 wounded. Emergency teams streamed in from across Lebanon to help, and the injured had to be taken to hospitals outside the capital. Hamad added that hospitals were barely coping and offers of aid were pouring in from Arab states and friends of Lebanon.\nSome of those injured lay on the ground at the port, Associated Press staff at the scene said. A civil defense official said there were still bodies inside the port, many under debris.\nBeirut’s governor, Marwan Abboud, broke into tears as he toured the site, saying, “Beirut is a devastated city.”\nInitially, video taken by residents showed a fire raging at the port, sending up a giant column of smoke, illuminated by flashes of what appear to be fireworks. Local TV stations reported that a fireworks warehouse was involved.\nThe fire then appeared to catch at a nearby building, triggering a more massive explosion, sending up a mushroom cloud and a shock wave.\nCharbel Haj, who works at the port, said it started as small explosions like firecrackers. Then, he said, he was thrown off his feet by the huge blast. His clothes were torn.\nMiles from the port, building facades were shredded, balconies were knocked down and windows shattered. Streets were covered with glass and bricks and lined with wrecked cars. Motorcyclists picked their way through traffic, carrying the injured.\nOne woman covered in blood from the waist up walked down a trashed street while talking furiously on her phone. On another street, a woman with a bloodied face looked distraught, staggering through traffic with two friends at her side.\n“This country is cursed,” a young man passing by muttered.\nThe blast came at a time when Lebanon’s economy is facing collapse from the financial crisis and the coronavirus restrictions. Many have lost jobs, while the worth of their savings has evaporated as the currency has plunged in value against the dollar. The result has thrown many into poverty.\nIt also occurred amid rising tensions between Israel and the militant Hezbollah group along Lebanon’s southern border.\nThe explosion was reminiscent of massive blasts during Lebanon’s civil war and took place only three days before a U.N.-backed tribunal was set to give its verdict in the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in a truck bombing more than 15 years ago. That explosion, with a ton of explosives, was felt miles away, just like Tuesday’s explosion.\nSeveral of Beirut’s hospitals were damaged in the blast. Roum Hospital put out a call for people to bring it spare generators to keep its electricity going as it evacuated patients because of heavy damage.\nOutside the St. George University Hospital in Beirut’s Achrafieh neighborhood, people with various injuries arrived in ambulances, in cars and on foot. The explosion had caused major damage inside the building and knocked out the electricity at the hospital. Dozens of injured were being treated on the spot on the street outside, on stretchers and wheelchairs.\n“This is a catastrophe we have on our hands,” said one doctor, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to make press statements.\n___\nAssociated Press writer Sarah El Deeb in Beirut and Josef Federman in Jerusalem contributed.}}
{{A massive explosion occurred in Beirut, the capital of Lebanon, on Tuesday. According to CNN, at least 25 people were killed in the blast and over 2,500 other individuals were injured. As for what caused this explosion, the incident is believed to have been the result of a fire in a warehouse that contained highly explosive materials.\nThe blast took place on Tuesday near the port in Beirut. Based on videos captured by social media users, smoke could be seen billowing out of the location shortly before a massive explosion occurred sending up a mushroom cloud-shaped shockwave through the city. The blast not only flipped over cars and damaged buildings, but it also led to numerous casualties. While officials are still trying to determine the exact figures, it is believed that at least 25 people died and thousands were injured. Although, that number could climb higher as officials investigate the full extent of the damage that the explosion caused. As previously mentioned, this incident is believed to be the result of a fire in a warehouse that contained highly explosive materials. Lebanon's internal security chief told reporters shortly after the explosion took place that they believed that the blast was caused by the highly explosive material that was in the warehouse, despite the fact that some wondered whether the location contained actual explosives.\nJUST IN: Lebanon's internal security chief tells reporters the blast was in a port area with highly explosive material, not explosives pic.twitter.com/tSRbTEhQcg — Reuters (@Reuters) August 4, 2020\nAfter the explosion took place, Beirut's governor, Marwan Abboud spoke with reporters and broke down while discussing the devastation that took place in the city. Abboud became visibly emotional as he discussed the situation with reporters. He even compared the incident to the nuclear attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki during World War II, telling reporters that he has never seen such a distressing sight. "It resembles to what happened in Japan, in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. That's what [it] reminds me of. In my life, I haven’t seen destruction on this scale," Abboud said about the explosion, which blew out nearby windows. "This is a national catastrophe."\nRania Masri, who witnessed the explosion, also recounted just how devastating the blast was. She even compared it to that of an earthquake (as CNN noted, the explosion could be felt as far away as Cyprus, which is hundreds of miles away from Beirut). "The apartment shook horizontally and all of a sudden it felt like an explosion and the windows and doors burst open," Masri said. "The glass just broke. So many homes were damaged or destroyed."}}
{{UK to send £5 million emergency package to Lebanon following Beirut explosion\nThe UK will send emergency relief to help rebuild the Lebanese capital Beirut. Picture: PA\nBy Nick Hardinges\nThe UK will send a £5 million emergency package to Lebanon following the explosion in Beirut on Tuesday, the Foreign Office has announced.\nAt least 100 people were killed and more than 4,000 injured following the blast that left the Lebanese capital devastated and has forced the country into a two-week state of emergency.\nMuch of the port area of the city was flattened with many buildings seriously damaged after the explosion sent a huge mushroom cloud into the sky.\nFollowing the disaster, Britain has offered to immediately deploy search and rescue experts with specially trained dogs to help find those caught up in the aftermath.\nForeign Secretary Dominic Raab spoke with the Prime Minister of Lebanon Hassan Diab in a phone call, during which the minister promised up to £5 million in emergency humanitarian funding to help people made homeless by the tragedy.\nRead more: Lebanon in mourning after massive explosion in Beirut kills 100 and injures 4,000\nRead more: Beirut blast - man pulled from rubble after 10 hours as dozens still missing\nForeign Secretary Dominic Raab said: “This was a devastating explosion which has caused enormous suffering and damage.\n"The UK is a long-standing friend of Lebanon and the Lebanese people and will stand with them in their hour of need.\n“We have offered immediate direct support including search and rescue, emergency medical assistance and up to £5 million in humanitarian aid.”\nAs part of the support, the UK will also offer enhanced support to the Lebanese Armed Forces who play a vital role in the country's response to the devastation.\nThis will include tailored medical help, strategic air transport assistance, and engineering and communications support.\nIt will also send an Emergency Medical Team, including NHS experts, to provide assistance to search and rescue teams in Lebanon.\nRead more: 300,000 people left homeless by Beirut explosion as damage costs top $3 billion\nRead more: Shocking satellite images show devastation caused by Beirut explosion\nInternational Development Secretary Anne-Marie Trevelyan said: “We have all been shocked by the scenes of devastation and suffering in Beirut. My heart goes out to all those who have been affected by this tragedy and who have lost loved ones.\n“The UK stands ready to support the people of Lebanon in their time of need and has offered to send medics and rescue workers to treat those who have been injured.”\nAlthough the cause of the blast has not been made clear, local media have reported that an accidental explosion linked to the storage of dangerous chemicals - ammonium nitrate - is responsible.\nHowever, US President Donald Trump said on Tuesday that American military officials felt it may have been a bomb attack.\nThe Lebanese government has put an unspecified number of Beirut port officials under house arrest pending an investigation into how 2,750 tonnes of explosive ammonium nitrate came to be stored at the port for years.\nOn Wednesday morning the Lebanese Red Cross said at least 100 people have died and more than 4000 have been injured.\nPresident Michel Aoun said 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate had been stored unsafely in a warehouse for six years.\nHe scheduled an urgent cabinet meeting for Wednesday and said a two-week state of emergency should be declared.\nVideo taken at the moment a building exploded, showed a huge shockwave moving across the city with a bang which was heard and felt as far away as Cyprus - more than 125 miles (200km) away.\nIt struck with the force of a 4.5 magnitude earthquake, according to Germany's geosciences centre GFZ.\nPictures showed devastation after the blast sparked fires, overturned cars and blew out windows and doors.\nHours later, ambulances were still carrying away the wounded as army helicopters helped battle fires raging at the port.}}
{{Iran is ready to help Lebanon in any way necessary, tweeted Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif after a deadly explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday.\nIran is ready to help Lebanon in any way necessary, tweeted Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif after a deadly explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday.\nIran is ready to help Lebanon in any way necessary, tweeted Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif after a deadly explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday.}}
{{FILE PHOTO: President Trump and Democratic presidential nominee Biden participate in their second debate in Nashville\nBy Chris Kahn\n(Reuters) - Democrat Joe Biden's lead over U.S. President Donald Trump has widened a little in the final days of the 2020 campaign in three critical Rust Belt states that Trump narrowly won four years ago, according to Reuters/Ipsos opinion polls released Sunday.\nBiden leads Trump by 10 percentage points in Wisconsin and Michigan, and the presidential nominee is ahead by seven points in Pennsylvania. Biden has led Trump in all three states in every Reuters/Ipsos weekly poll that began in mid-September, and his leads have ticked higher in the each state over the past two weeks.\nReuters/Ipsos is polling likely voters in six states - Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Michigan, North Carolina, Florida and Arizona - that will play critical roles in deciding whether Trump wins a second term in office or if Biden ousts him.\nBelow is a state-by-state look at Reuters/Ipsos findings, based on the online responses of likely voters:\nMICHIGAN (Oct. 27 - Nov. 1):\n* Voting for Biden: 52%\n* Voting for Trump: 42%\n* Biden was up 52%-43% the prior week.\n* 37% of adults said they already had voted.\n* 52% said Biden would be better at handling the coronavirus pandemic. 40% said Trump would be better.\n* 48% said Trump would be better at managing the economy. 44% said Biden would be better.\nWISCONSIN (Oct. 27 - Nov. 1):\n* Voting for Biden: 53%\n* Voting for Trump: 43%\n* Biden was up 53%-44% the prior week.\n* 41% of adults said they already had voted.\n* 52% said Biden would be better at handling the coronavirus pandemic. 38% said Trump would be better.\n* 47% said Trump would be better at managing the economy. 45% said Biden would be better.\nPENNSYLVANIA (Oct. 27 - Nov. 1):\n* Voting for Biden: 51%\n* Voting for Trump: 44%\n* Biden was up 50%-45% the prior week.\n* 25% of adults said they already had voted.\n* 51% said Biden would be better at handling the coronavirus pandemic. 40% said Trump would be better.\n* 48% said Trump would be better at managing the economy. 46% said Biden would be better.\nFLORIDA (Oct. 21 - Oct. 27)\n* Voting for Biden: 49%\n* Voting for Trump: 47%\n* A prior poll had showed Biden with an apparent lead of 50%-46%, with the margin being on the edge of the poll's credibility interval.\n* 32% said they already had voted.\n* 48% said Biden would be better at handling the coronavirus pandemic. 42% said Trump would be better.\n* 52% said Trump would be better at managing the economy. 41% said Biden would be better.\nARIZONA (Oct. 21 - Oct. 27):\n* Voting for Biden: 48%\n* Voting for Trump: 46%\n* The two are statistically tied as the margin is within the survey's credibility interval.\n* A prior poll also showed a statistically even race, with 49% for Biden and 46% for Trump.\n* 37% said they already had voted.\n* 50% said Biden would be better at handling the coronavirus pandemic. 42% said Trump would be better.\n* 50% said Trump would be better at managing the economy. 44% said Biden would be better.\nNORTH CAROLINA (Oct. 21 - Oct. 27):\n* Voting for Biden: 49%\n* Voting for Trump: 48%\n* Since the margin is within the poll's credibility interval, the race is statistically tied, as it was in the prior poll when Biden had 49% to Trump's 46%.\n* 35% said they already had voted.\n* 48% said Biden would be better at handling the coronavirus pandemic. 44% said Trump would be better.\n* 51% said Trump would be better at managing the economy. 43% said Biden would be better.\nNOTES\nThe Reuters/Ipsos opinion polls are conducted online in all six states in English, as well as in Spanish in Arizona and Florida.\n* In Michigan, from Oct. 27 to Nov. 1, it gathered responses from 1,007 adults, including 654 likely voters, and had a credibility interval of 4 percentage points.\nStory continues}}
{{Biden's campaign announced the former vice president's visit to Ohio Sunday morning, adding details will follow.\nTOLEDO, Ohio — Former Vice President Joe Biden will travel to Cleveland Monday, just one day before Election Day, his campaign announced Sunday morning.\nThe announcement said Biden will "discuss bringing Americans together to address the crises facing the country and winning the battle for the soul of the nation."\nThe message also said details would follow.\nThis comes after President Donald Trump's campaign has made multiple stops in the Buckeye State as well as Biden's during this election cycle.\nMost recently, Tiffany Trump and Don Trump Jr. were in the Toledo area Thursday and Monday, respectively, while Ivanka Trump campaigned in the Youngstown area Saturday with Republican Sen. Rob Portman,.\nBiden also visited the Glass City earlier this month while his running mate Democratic Sen. Kamala Harris was in Cleveland last Saturday.}}
{{×\nThank you for reading! On your next view you will be asked to log in to your subscriber account or create an account and subscribepurchase a subscription to continue reading.}}
{{Article content\nPARIS — French President Emmanuel Macron said on Thursday that he personally had no further information into what may have caused this week’s deadly warehouse explosion in Beirut, beyond what was already in the public domain.\nMacron also told reporters in Beirut that an international inquiry into the blast was needed, and that this had to be as transparent as possible.\nWe apologize, but this video has failed to load.\ntap here to see other videos from our team. Try refreshing your browser, or France's Macron: no more info on Beirut blast, international probe needed Back to video\nInitial probes have pointed to a cargo of ammonium nitrate, which was abandoned in Beirut and exploded in a devastating fireball, as being the cause of the blast.\n(Reporting by Sudip Kar-Gupta, Michel Rose and Geert de Clercq; editing by Diane Craft)}}
{{Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani on August 5 said his country stood ready to send medical aid to Lebanon and treat injured people following the huge blast the previous day that decimated swathes of Beirut, IRNA reported.\nAt least 100 people are known to have died after the massive explosion in Beirut’s port area, with thousands injured and reports of up to 300,000 people made homeless. Lebanon said the blast was caused by the ignition of 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate—a chemical often used as fertiliser but also sometimes used as bomb materiál—that was stored unsafely in a warehouse.\nIn a message to his Lebanese counterpart Michel Aoun, Rouhani described the events as a source of deep sorrow and grief for Iran. “As the representative of the nation and government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, I express condolences to the families of the victims, and offer my heartfelt sympathies to you and the people of your loyal and brotherly country,” he said.\nRouhani added: “As a humanitarian move, the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran expresses its preparedness to send medical aid and medicine, help treat the injured and provide any other medical help.”\nHe expressed the hope that an investigation into the incident would soon be completed and help restore calm to Beirut.\nLebanon has been in an economic and political crisis since the end of last year, while the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic has added a medical crisis to the nation’s woes.\nThe ammonium nitrate is thought to have been stored in the warehouse for the past six years, despite safety warnings from officials.\nThe blast and sound wave from the explosion was felt as far away as Israel, Turkey and Cyprus. Israel reportedly scrambled jets to discover the cause of what amounted to a 3.5-magnitude earthquake in the Lebanese capital.\nFollowing the blast, rockets were reportedly fired on the US embassy in Baghdad by groups said to be close to Iran.}}
{{SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) – California certified its presidential election Friday and appointed 55 electors pledged to vote for Democrat Joe Biden, officially handing him the Electoral College majority needed to win the White House.\nSecretary of State Alex Padilla’s formal approval of Biden’s win in the state brought his tally of pledged electors so far to 279, according to a tally by The Associated Press. That’s just over the 270 threshold for victory.\nThese steps in the election are often ignored formalities. But the hidden mechanics of electing a U.S. president have drawn new scrutiny this year as President Donald Trump continues to deny Biden’s victory and pursues increasingly specious legal strategies aimed at overturning the results before they are finalized.\nAlthough it’s been apparent for weeks that Biden won the presidential election, his accrual of more than 270 electors is the first step toward the White House, said Edward B. Foley, a law professor at Ohio State University.\n“It is a legal milestone and the first milestone that has that status,” Foley said. “Everything prior to that was premised on what we call projections.”\nThe electors named Friday will meet Dec. 14, along with counterparts in each state, to formally vote for the next president. Most states have laws binding their electors to the winner of the popular vote in their state, measures that were upheld by a Supreme Court decision this year. There have been no suggestions that any of Biden’s pledged electors would contemplate not voting for him.\nResults of the Electoral College vote are due to be received, and typically approved, by Congress on Jan. 6. Although lawmakers can object to accepting the electors’ votes, it would be almost impossible for Biden to be blocked at that point.\nThe Democratic-controlled House and Republican-controlled Senate would both vote separately to resolve any disputes. One already has arisen from Pennsylvania, where 75 Republican lawmakers signed a statement on Friday urging Congress to block the state’s electoral votes from being cast for Biden. But the state’s Republican U.S. senator, Pat Toomey, said soon afterward that he would not be objecting to Pennsylvania’s slate of electors, underscoring the difficulty in trying to change the election results through Congress.\n“As a practical matter, we know that Joe Biden is going to be inaugurated on Jan. 20,” Foley said.\nThat was clear in the days after the election, when the count of mail ballots gradually made clear that Biden had won victories in enough states to win the Electoral College. It became even more apparent in late November, when every swing state won by Biden certified him as the winner of its elections and appointed his electors to the Electoral College. Trump has fruitlessly tried to stop those states from certifying Biden as the winner and appointing electors for the former vice president.\nHe made no effort in deeply Democratic California, the most populous state in the nation and the trove of its largest number of electoral votes. Three more states won by Biden — Colorado, Hawaii and New Jersey — have not yet certified their results. When they do, Biden will have 306 Electoral College votes to Trump’s 232.\nTrump and his allies have brought at least 50 legal cases trying to overturn the results in the swing states Biden won — mainly Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. More than 30 have been rejected or dropped, according to an AP tally.\nTrump and his allies have also raised the far-fetched notion that Republican state legislatures in those states could appoint a rival set of electors pledged to Trump.\nBut state Republican leaders have rejected that approach, and it would likely be futile in any case. According to federal law, both chambers of Congress would need to vote to accept a competing slate of electors. If they don’t, the electors appointed by the states’ governors — all pledged to Biden in these cases — must be used.\nThe last remaining move to block the election would be the quixotic effort to vote down the electors in Congress.\nThis tactic has been tried — a handful of congressional Democrats in 2000, 2004 and 2016 objected to officially making both George W. Bush and Trump president. But the numbers were not enough to block the two men from taking office.}}
{{President-elect Joe Biden has reportedly decided to name senior aide, Jeff Zients as coronavirus response czar and will return Dr. Vivek Murthy to his former post as U.S. Surgeon General as he beefs up his team to counter the pandemic.}}
{{The devastating explosion that shook Beirut yesterday has “virtually wiped out” out the city’s nightclub district.\nThe Lebanese capital suffered a major blow on Tuesday, due to a huge ammonium nitrate explosion which left 5,000 people injured 135 dead. In addition, dozens of buildings, including shops, restaurants and other businesses, were severely damaged.\nAccording to local reports, the blast hit dangerously close to the nightclub district, affecting nearby venues including The Gärten, The Ballroom Blitz, The Grand Factory, AHM and B018. Many of which have exposed the city to dance music.\nMartin Chulov, an on-site journalist for The Guardian, revealed “whole nightclub district [has been] virtually wiped out.”\nThe Ballroom Blitz Moe Choucair explained to Mixmag: “We’ve stopped thinking as a club and started thinking as a team of individuals pooling ideas to try and help in the most efficient way we can think of. Our establishment is the least of our concern right now because of the huge impact and urgency to react to this catastrophe.”\nMore on the Beirut blast here — and find out ways to help here.\nSources: Mixmag, The Guardian | Photo via Karim Sokhn, Wikimedia Commons}}
{{More than 200 Republican lawmakers either gave an unclear answer or did not answer at all.\nWASHINGTON — Twenty-seven Republican lawmakers said former Vice President Joe Biden won the 2020 election, according to a Washington Post survey.\nAn even larger majority, 220 Congressmen and women at the time of this writing, were either unclear in their answer or did not provide a response. Two Republican lawmakers said President Donald Trump won the election.\nFor those two, and others inclined to believe the same: Biden won the election with 306 electoral votes, putting him above the 270 needed to clinch the presidency, according to the Associated Press' latest result count. Trump won 232 electoral votes.\n"The results demonstrate the fear that most Republicans have of the outgoing president and his grip on the party, despite his new status as just the third incumbent president to lose reelection in the last 80 years," The Post said.\nThe Post says a team of 25 reporters contacted aides for every Republican by email and phone -- they also researched previous public statements -- and asked the following questions:\nWho won the election? Do you support or oppose Donald Trump's continuing efforts to claim victory? If Joe Biden wins a majority in the Electoral College, will you accept him as the legitimately elected president of the United States?\nWeeks after the election was called, Republicans refuse to admit that Joe Biden wonhttps://t.co/ff7xkIfTA9 pic.twitter.com/VZqMD0Rz0N — The Fix (@thefix) December 5, 2020\nFlorida Sen. Marco Rubio indicated Biden won the election by calling him "president-elect" in a USA Today opinion piece. The Post placed Florida's second senator, Republican Rick Scott, in its unclear/no answer column as he did not respond to The Post. It found he told Politico "it would be great" if Trump ran again in 2024.\nWith California certifying its electors late last week, Biden officially crossed the threshold of 270 pledged electors needed to become president. They will meet Dec. 14 in each state to cast their votes.\nTrump and his campaign since the election have unsuccessfully tried to delay the certification process in key battleground states. The AP found that of at least 50 legal cases Trump's team have brought in states Biden won, more than 30 have been rejected in court or dropped.\nWhat other people are reading right now:}}
{{Former Vice President Joe Biden (D) stated Tuesday that construction of the southern border wall will cease if he is elected president.\nBiden’s comments came during an interview with Yahoo! News’s Lulu Garcia-Navarro in which he was asked whether he was “willing to tear that wall down” that President Donald Trump has worked to construct. Biden answered:\nNo, there will not be another foot of wall constructed in my administration, number one. Number two, what I’m going to focus on, and the fact is that somebody in this group written a lot about the border. I’m going to make sure that we have border protection, but it’s going to be based on making sure that we use high-tech capacity to deal with it. And at the ports of entry, that’s where all the bad stuff is.\nWhen questioned about land confiscations, Biden simply responded, “End it.” Garcia-Navarro attempted to elaborate on her land confiscations question before Biden interjected and said, “End. End. End. Stop. Done. Over. Not going to do it. Withdraw the lawsuits. We’re out. We’re not going to confiscate the land.”\nIn addition to his comments, Biden also claimed Garcia-Navarro “made me president” by reminding him that President Barack Obama was known as the “Deporter-in-Chief” for “moving more than three million people during the Biden-Obama administration.”\nThe interview with Biden is set to air on Thursday at the convention of the National Association of Black Journalists and the National Association of Hispanic Journalists.}}
{{Lebanese former grownup movie star Mia Khalifa has emotionally appealed for assist for Beirut following the large explosion which ripped by town’s port yesterday night.\nAt the least 100 folks had been killed and greater than 4,00 injured when an infinite blast shook Lebanon’s capital metropolis on Tuesday.\nGreater than 100 are nonetheless lacking, whereas a mushroom cloud was seen spreading over the capital, which is house to greater than one million folks.\nThe Lebanese President Michel Aoun mentioned the blast was brought on by 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate which was being saved in a warehouse.\nFormer grownup movie star Mia, 27, was born in Beirut and moved to america along with her household again in 2001.\nShe took to social media as she tearfully begged for folks to assist her metropolis of start by donating to blood banks and shared notices of lacking folks or accessible flats for these left homeless by the blast.\nAddressing her greater than 21 million Instagram followers, she angrily denounced Lebanon’s authorities and known as for a revolution within the nation.\nShe additionally shared a video of the church the place she was baptised in Beirut for the time being the blast struck.\n(Picture: notthefakemiakhalifa/Instagram)\nThe footage exhibits a priest operating for his life as massive sections of the Paroisse St Maron Baouchrieh church in Beirut collapse round him.\nSharing an image of the statue of the Virgin Mary in Harissa on Mount Lebanon above town, Mia wrote: “Its morning in Lebanon and no one has slept.\n“Please proceed sharing, donating and serving to the rescue efforts. Share photographs of lacking individuals, resorts taking displaced residents, blood financial institution places, or simply photographs to lift consciousness round this humanitarian disaster and nation in collapse.”\n(Picture: miakhalifa/Instagram)\nTaking goal on the nation’s authorities, she wrote: “Give Lebanon back to the people.\n“Each single political chief has to f****** resign. Or they must be overthrown as a result of that is no method for folks to dwell.”\nThe explosion which tore through the ancient Biblical city is being blamed on thousands of tonnes of ammonium nitrate, a fertiliser which can also act as an explosive, which was being stored unsafely at a warehouse in the port.\n(Picture: AFP through Getty Pictures)\nAuthorities within the nation have positioned Beirut Port officers underneath home arrest whereas they examine.\nThe blast was felt as distant as Cyprus, round 200km throughout the Mediterranean Sea, and seismologists at america Geological Survey mentioned it was the equal of a 3.3-magnitude earthquake.\nIt was round a fifth as highly effective because the nuclear bomb dropped on Hiroshima by the US in 1945.}}
{{On the night of November 7, 2000, Al Gore made two phone calls to George W. Bush.\nThe first was to concede the presidential election. The second, an hour later, was to retract his concession.\nThe race had come down to the swingiest of swing states, and just a few hundred votes separated the candidates.\n"My little brother tells me that we're definitely going to carry Florida," the Republican presidential candidate reportedly said to his Democratic rival on the phone.\nBush was then the governor of Texas. His brother Jeb Bush was the Governor of Florida.\n"Well, I don't care what your little brother says," Gore, who was vice-president at the time, shot back.\n"I'm formally telling you I am no longer conceding, thank you, good night."\nWhat followed was 36 days of chaos. There were cries of corruption. Protests. Legal challenges. Threats of violence. A bruised and exhausted electorate questioning the very foundations of its democracy.\nProtests were held outside the US Supreme Court as it ruled on whether the Florida recount should be extended. ( Reuters )\nBut it wasn't the first time an American presidential election has failed to produce a clear winner and it might not be the last. In fact, 2020 may be next.\nA deluge of mail-in ballots from millions of Americans will test the nation's old-fashioned voting system.\nMeanwhile, the President has refused to commit to a peaceful transition of power and his rival Joe Biden has hired an army of lawyers in anticipation of court battles.\nThe longer the uncertainty lasts, the more dangerous it gets. A hard deadline to formally elect the president is built into the US electoral system.\nIf America careens into that deadline with both candidates insisting they won the election, it could trigger a crisis unlike anything the country has experienced before.\n"The role that fear has played in this presidential campaign on both sides of the political spectrum means that there are many people in the United States who will feel fundamentally disenfranchised by the result, whichever way it goes," research associate at the US Studies Centre Elliot Brennan said.\n"Both candidates have essentially promised that the United States will fall apart if they are not elected.\n"When you add guns, a pandemic, a recession, a conspiracy theory renaissance and rabid disinformation campaigns to that cocktail, a dangerous domestic situation is given a good dose of volatility."\nHow COVID-19 changed everything this election\nThe coronavirus pandemic means a record number of Americans have chosen to vote by mail or pre-poll in the weeks leading up to election day to avoid crowds.\n"People are worried about what will happen to their votes," senior lecturer at the United States Studies Centre Dr David Smith said.\n"They're worried what could happen on Election Day: whether there will be intimidation at the polls, whether there will be queues that are so long, or whether COVID will be so bad by that point that it would be too dangerous to vote."\nSeveral key battleground states — including Wisconsin, which Trump won in 2016 by just 22,748 votes — don't touch their mail-in ballots until election day.\nAs election workers inspect millions of ballots, open the secure envelopes, flatten them out and then feed them into tabulating machines, a result could take days or even weeks.\nThe coronavirus pandemic has prompted a record number of Americans to vote early or vote by mail. ( Reuters: Jonathan Drake )\nPolling data shows a huge turnout among Democrats for early voting, while Republicans are more likely to cast a ballot in person.\nThat could mean the count shows Trump ahead in the early hours, before a late surge by Biden.\n"I think we can all imagine [Trump] declaring himself the winner before the results are certified or votes have been properly counted," research fellow from RMIT University and host of the US politics podcast Barely Gettin' By, Emma Shortis, said.\n"That's extremely dangerous."\nWhile news networks may hold off on naming a winner and the Biden camp can insist on waiting for all votes to be counted, chaos could still follow.\nLoading\n"There's not a lot Trump can do on his own because elections are run at the state level," Dr Smith said.\n"He can't declare the election over. The problem is around norms.\n"Is he going to try to stir up his supporters? Will that lead to violence because Trump's telling his supporters that there's a coup in progress? Is that going to prompt people with weapons to places where the vote's being counted?"\nThe uncertainty lurking in America's election system\nThe US presidential race can seem like an event which culminates with the winning candidate smiling and waving to a sea of supporters before claiming victory.\nBut election night is usually just the party before the paperwork begins and the clock starts ticking on a series of crucial deadlines.\nDecember 8 is the day known as "safe harbour", when each state must have resolved all controversies and disputes for their results to be approved by Congress.\nThe 538 members of the electoral college, who indirectly elect the president rather than the American people, must meet on December 14 to formally cast their ballots for president and vice-president.\n"If it's unclear by that point what the actual results were, if there have been court cases, if there have been conflicting rulings, I think that would essentially be a constitutional crisis," Dr Smith said of the 2020 race.\nThe nightmare scenario would be if the election is still disputed by the hardest of deadlines: January 20, 2021, when Trump's term expires.\n"The dangers that would stem from reaching that date without a consensus result are immense and unprecedented," Mr Brennan said.\nThe system, designed by a group of men who lived 223 years ago with only a few tweaks since, has had its crises.\nJohn Quincy Adams (left), Rutherford B. Hayes, Benjamin Harrison and George W. Bush also lost the electoral college but still won the White House. ( Wikimedia Commons: Mathew Brady/Pach Brothers/Eric Draper )\nThere have been three presidents in history who won despite losing the popular vote: Benjamin Harrison, George W Bush and Trump.\nTwo men, John Quincy Adams and Rutherford B. Hayes, have entered the White House despite losing both the popular and electoral vote.\nThe constitution has a mechanism in place if a candidate fails to clear 270 votes in the electoral college.\nIn 1824 for instance, the House of Representatives voted for Adams when the election was deadlocked.\nBut it's the litigious outcome of the 2000 election which could give us a glimpse into what happens after November 3, 2020.\n'There is quite a bit of danger'\nBush launched a lawsuit to stop Florida recounting the votes, in a case that eventually went all the way to the Supreme Court.\nDozens of protesters turned up at a government building in Miami where election canvassers were attempting to recount votes two weeks after the 2000 election. ( Reuters )\nAs tensions mounted, a group of Republican operatives dressed in suits descended on the Miami-Dade polling headquarters demanding the recount stop in what became known as the Brooks Brothers riot.\n"There could be some repeat of that tactic tried again," Dr Smith said.\n"Just try to delay, delay, delay for as long as possible until you get past the legal deadline where votes can still be counted.\n"It wouldn't be a Brooks Brothers riot this time. We'll be talking about people in camouflage and assault weapons so there is quite a bit of danger."\nJust six days before the electoral college was due to meet, the Supreme Court ruled in a highly controversial 5-4 decision to stop the recount, setting the stage for Bush to become president.\nWhen they officially stopped recounting the ballots, Bush was just 537 votes ahead out of 6 million cast in Florida. Al Gore said he "strongly disagreed" with the Supreme Court's decision but accepted it.\nDespite a bitter presidential race, Al Gore and George W. Bush shook hands for the camera a week after the Supreme Court stopped the recount in Florida. ( Reuters )\nBrennan said he doubted Biden would concede so quickly in the name of democratic norms if a similar scenario occurs this year.\n"If there's any doubt around the legitimacy of a Trump victory or the way in which it was handled, Joe Biden will feel enormous simultaneous pressure from his supporters and his own convictions to challenge the result," he says.\nBut Ms Shortis says it could ultimately come down to how the parties, Congress and the courts respond if a candidate declares himself the winner before the final tally.\n"It doesn't just depend on what Trump does. It depends on what the people around him do, and how institutions respond to that kind of pressure, and there's too much up in the air for us to predict what will happen," she says.\nDr Smith agreed.\n"If it looks like a very clear win to Biden, then it's possible that Trump's allies could just decide they don't want anything to do with a contested election," he said.}}
{{A prolific author and speaker who has been described as a “Religious Right Defector” has issued a warning about the 2020 election that’s getting noticed.\nFrank Schaeffer was raised by a noted conservative Christian theologian who was at the forefront of right wing Christian political activism in the 1970’s. But now he is a liberal Democrat and a cable news guest frequently invited to speak on the tactics of the religious right.\nThis week he’s speaking out about what he says is the White House’s plan to ensure Trump remains in the Oval Office.\nIn short, Schaeffer says Jared Kushner is planning an end run around the election process, and will appeal to the Supreme Court, as George W. Bush did in the 2000 election, to ensure Trump is installed in office for another four years.\n“Insider says Kushner is now in charge of planning last ditch try at disqualifying Biden ballots on election night, urging Republican state legislatures to ‘send competing slates of electors,’ and then seeking a Supreme Court ruling in Trump’s favor,” Schaeffer said Tuesday, adding that “Barr is said to support this.”\nTo be clear, Schaeffer offers little substance and cites only one unnamed source.\nOn Wednesday, he added this:\nHillary Clinton has heard the same Republican insiders' claims of a conspiracy Kushner is hatching I have: She warns 'sabotaging' the USPS to make mail-in voting more difficult could be Trump's strategy for reelection. — Frank Schaeffer (@Frank_Schaeffer) August 5, 2020\nHis warning might have sounded far-fetched in earlier times, but now, many are taking notice.\nThis boggles the mind. Do Kushner & Barr want a civil war? Is that their endgame here? Do they think Dems will just roll over and accept another stolen election? — Alex (@Shurao) August 5, 2020\nSabotaging the USPS, preëmptively claiming mail-in fraud, disenrolling voters… The Trump admin has all but announced they plan to steal the #2020Election. Democrats & others who support democracy in America must prepare to fight well past Nov 3 to dislodge the SOB. https://t.co/Y2yEilTFIT — Zakariah Johnson 🪕 (@Pteratorn) August 5, 2020\nSo, between this and the Kanye nonsense, an admission: they can’t win without dirty tricks and cheating https://t.co/nUhOSRdT6p — Jonathan Earle (@JonathanEarle2) August 5, 2020\nThey know they can’t win without serious voter suppression…. of course it’s criminal but who stops them with Barr in charge of DoJ? — Helen, #Masketeer – All For 1, 1 For All🇪🇺🇬🇧 (@florencerounda2) August 4, 2020\nThis is a concern. I’d have to refresh my memory on the Electoral Count Act to see how effective it would be. Essentially it’s an effort to put the election in the hands of GOP govs. in swing states who would send a different slate of electors than what the voters chose. — Doubting Thomas (@mikethomaswire1) August 4, 2020\nThe GOP is desperate to hold on to power. Be prepared to face the biggest and most outrageous criminal enterprise, beyond what you imagine or have experienced up to now. This is WAR for the future of America. — jubalcurrent (@jubalcurrent) August 5, 2020\nTraitors committing treason. Let’s call this what it is. https://t.co/bRobl68ipw — WavesOfJoy #BlackLivesMatter (@WavesOfJoy13) August 5, 2020}}
{{The enormous explosion that leveled parts of Beirut, Lebanon, on Tuesday killed more than 100 people and injured more than 4,000 others, overwhelming the authorities and damaging many hospitals and critical facilities.\nRescue workers were struggling to treat the wounded in the aftermath of the blast, which was powerful enough to be felt more than 150 miles away in Cyprus. The authorities said that though the cause of the explosion still had not been determined, about 2,750 tons of highly explosive ammonium nitrate, commonly used in fertilizer and bombs, had been stored in a depot at the port for six years.\nAs the desperate search for survivors continues, with teams scouring through rubble from homes, twisted metal from cars, broken windows and other debris, groups around the world have moved to help. For those looking for ways to give support, several organizations have mobilized in the region.}}
{{click to enlarge Wikimedia Commons / Gage Skidmore\nFor the story, a team of\nreporters contacted the staff of all 249 GOP members of the U.S. Senate and House by both phone and email, asking three basic questions:\nWho won the election?\nDo you support or oppose Donald Trump's continuing efforts to claim victory?\nIf Joe Biden wins a majority in the Electoral College, will you accept him as the legitimately elected president of the United States?\nU.S. Sens. Ted Cruz and John Cornyn of Texas were among the more than 200 Capitol Hill Republicans who declined to answer the Washington Post's straightforward inquiry whether Joe Biden won the election U.S. Rep. Chip Roy, one of two Republicans in San Antonio's House delegation, also provided no answer. The second — retiring U.S. Rep. Will Hurd — also gave no response, but thecounted him as one of two GOP members of Congress who congratulated Biden on November 7 after his victory was clear.Just 27 Republicans answered in the affirmative, showing the absurdly narrow needle that the party's elected officials are attempting to thread as they try not to upset President Donald Trump's base. Trump is now in the fourth week of an unprecedented and unhinged bid to overturn an election he lost 306 electoral votes to 232. Biden also won the popular vote by 7 million.Although Cruz didn't answer any of the questions, thecounted him as a "no" on the second. That's because the senator issued a written statement on December 1 urging the U.S. Supreme Court to hear an emergency appeal challenging Biden’s win in Pennsylvania.Themade it inquiry the day after Trump posted a 46-minute video full of lies and unsubstantiated claims that shadowy forces stole the election from him.The full list of Republican members of Congress and their responses is available here}}
{{Not long after news broke that Kamala Harris had been named as Joe Biden’s running mate, donations started pouring into the campaign in unusual numbers: $19.08, $190.80, $1,908.00, $19,800.\n“Those who knew, knew,” said Roslyn Brock, chair of the International Connection Committee for Alpha Kappa Alpha, the sorority to which Harris belongs. The donations represented the year 1908, when the sorority — one of the Divine Nine of the Historically Black Colleges and Universities — was founded at Howard University, Harris’ alma mater.\n“All of those were a signal of Black women from Alpha Kappa Alpha making our voices heard through our financial contributions,” said Brock, who was responsible for the sorority’s get-out-the-vote efforts. While the sorority is a service organization and has members from both political parties, the support for Harris was overwhelming. “It was very organic about the pride we have in our sisterhood,” Brock said.\nAlpha Kappa Alpha is one of many Black women’s groups that leveraged its power by mobilizing its members, coordinating its leadership and working in collaboration with others this election cycle. The result was an undeniable show of power from Black women voters and activists, and widespread recognition that their work was a cornerstone of the Democrats’ win.\n“It was an awakening. A phoenix rising,” Brock said of the power of the whole. “Many of us have worked in our own individual capacities, mobilizing [during] electoral cycles. But we banded together in this historic moment because we understood the implications and the import of this seminal election in our nation's history.”\nBishop Leah Daughtry has been doing this work for more than 30 years. She serves on the board of the Black women’s political groups Higher Heights and of Power Rising, and she co-founded Black Church PAC, an organization of Black church influencers aiming to leverage the power of the church and its followers, after the 2016 election. This cycle, her organization worked with 3,000 faith leaders across the country to mobilize voters in their communities through everything from virtual concerts to a ten-day get-out-the-vote bus tour through the South.\n“It was really important that we supported the sisters on the ground who had been doing the work and who understood the terrain and had been building these coalitions for years,” Daughtry said, “and to not supplant that, but to support it.”\nDaughtry described a network where each group played to its strengths, with The National Coalition on Black Civic Participation and Black Voters Matter focusing on South, and Higher Heights and The Collective PAC lending financial support to candidates. Alongside Win with Black Women, Sisters Lead Sisters Vote, Emerge, Coalition for the People’s Agenda, Fair Fight and others, the groups worked together to maximize their impact. Then when it came time for the Jan. 5 Senate run-offs in Georgia, they did it again.\n“We made a decision because Power Rising is based in Washington not to try to direct the traffic, but to let [them] tell us, what do you need?,” Daughtry said. “And if you need us to not come, all of us non-Georgians, you need us to stay home, we’ll stay home. If you need money, we’ll get the money. If you want food trucks, we will get the food trucks.”\nDaughtry described a core organizing principle embraced by the multitude of activist groups this election season. “We decided, which I think is the way of women, to collaborate," she said, "not to duplicate each other’s efforts. That was a dialogue that was happening all across the country.”\nAlpha Kappa Alpha is still in the process of counting, but the sorority’s leadership believes it was able to deliver more than 250,000 new voters to this election working with their partners in the Divine Nine, along with Michelle Obama’s When We All Vote organization, Oprah Winfrey’s Own Your Vote, Reverend William Barber’s Poor People’s Campaign, and with the NAACP on their grassroots advocacy and outreach programs to mobilize voters. More than 1,000 members of the National Bar Association partnered with AKA to volunteer as poll watchers and election protection officials. The sorority hosted candidate forums and webinars, while in their individual capacities, members phone banked and canvassed.\nGlynda Carr, the president, CEO, and co-founder of Higher Heights, is a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha and wore her sorority’s pink and green colors and signature pearls with pride on Election Day. The infrastructure around supporting black women candidates and mobilizing Black women voters has come a long way since Carr and her friend Kimberly Peeler-Allen sat around a table in a Brooklyn cafe in February 2011 talking about how they didn’t see many women who looked like them working in progressive politics in New York. In the decade since, they’ve worked to build a network that is uniquely designed to address the barriers that exist for Black women seeking political office, and the fundraising support to bolster their campaigns.\n“What we've seen increasingly [is] this discussion around ‘invest in Black women,’ ‘thank Black women,” Carr said. “And what you saw a little different in this cycle was that we were demanding our return on our voting investments.”\nThe phrase “Thank Black women” has been making its way through political media and onto T-shirts, acknowledging Black women as the most reliable Democratic voting block in the country and a decisive force in electoral politics. During a 2017 special election for a Senate seat in Alabama, an overwhelming 98 percent of Black women cast ballots for Democrat Doug Jones. This cycle, 90 percent of Black women voters went for Joe Biden nationally, according to exit polls. Black women voters did it again in Georgia this month, when more than 90 percent of them voted two Democrats into the Senate. That election shifted the balance of power in Congress’s upper chamber to the Democrats, giving Biden and Harris their best chance of enacting their agenda.v\n“Black women in this cycle have seen what our power can do,” Daughtry said. “And we understand as women the power of collaboration. That’s just a principle of our lives and it’s how we have survived in this country is through cooperation and collaboration: 'I work while you watch the children. Then I watch your children while you go to work.' That’s the way we have survived and we’ve found a way to take the principle into every area of our lives, including the political.”}}
{{Senator Tim Scott (R-S.C.) will certify Joe Biden's Electoral College win, refusing to join the growing number of Republicans planning to object to the process, Axios has learned.\nWhy it matters: Scott, who joins several veteran Republican senators standing firm against President Trump's efforts to overturn his legitimate election defeat, sparked buzz about a 2024 presidential run after getting the red carpet treatment at the Republican National Convention in August.\nThe big picture: Scott's argument echoes that of other pro-Trump dissenters, like Sens. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) and Mike Lee (R-Utah), who are worried about the precedent that will be set by their GOP colleagues' effort and the potential damage to American democracy.\nAs the only Black Republican in the U.S. Senate, Scott has played an important role as the party seeks to expand its appeal to a more diverse group of voters.\nWhat he'll say: "As I read the Constitution, there is no constitutionally viable means for the Congress to overturn an election wherein the states have certified and sent their Electors," Scott says in a draft copy of his statement obtained by Axios.\n"Some of my colleagues believe they have found a path, and while our opinions differ, I do not doubt their good intentions to take steps towards stamping out voter fraud. Importantly, I disagree with their method both in principle and in practice. For their theory to work, Nancy Pelosi and House Democrats would have to elect Donald Trump president rather than Joe Biden. That it is not going to happen, not today or any other day."\nRead his full statement.}}
{{Lebanese authorities have taken into custody 16 individuals as part of an investigation into the Beirut port warehouse explosion that shook the capital, state news agency NNA said on Thursday.\nIt quoted Judge Fadi Akiki, a government representative at the military court, as saying authorities had so far questioned more than 18 port and customs officials and individuals responsible for or involved in maintenance work at the warehouse housing highly explosive material that blew up.\n"Sixteen people have been taken into custody as part of the investigation," NNA quoted Akiki as saying, without naming the individuals. He said the investigation was continuing.}}
{{FILE – U.S. Rep. Roger Marshall, R-Kan., speaks to a local Elephant Club meeting in the banquet room of a restaurant in Overland Park, Kan. on Aug. 18, 2020. Marshall and Democrat state Sen. Barbara Bollier will meet in their first debate of their race to replace retiring Sen. Pat Roberts. (AP Photo/John Hanna, File)\nWASHINGTON D.C. — Republican Senator Roger Marshall has acknowledged President-elect Joe Biden as the victor of the General Election after objecting to the certified state votes the night before.\n“Joe Biden is the President-Elect and we must and will have a peaceful transition of power on January 20th,” Marshall stated on Facebook. “Anything less is not an option.”\nMarshall, who won election in an unusually close Kansas race in 2020, slammed those who rioted at the Capitol yesterday, saying they destroyed the chance for a peaceful debate.\n“Your actions were despicable and each of you – the rioters, vandals, and trespassers – should be prosecuted to the fullest extent,” he stated.\nAfter officials had re-secured the chamber inside the Capitol on Jan. 6, Marshall decided to maintain his objection to the General Election results. He joined Missouri Senator Josh Hawley and four other senators in maintaining their arguments.\nAfter the 93-6 vote, the Senate overwhelmingly turned aside the challenge to Arizona’s results.\nRead Sen. Marshall’s full statement on Facebook:}}
{{Earth moving equipment and rescue workers search for victims,Monday, Aug. 10, 2020, in Beirut, Lebanon, near the site of last week’s explosion that hit the city’s seaport. World leaders and international organizations pledged nearly $300 million in emergency humanitarian aid to Beirut in the wake of the devastating explosion, but warned on Sunday that no money for rebuilding the capital will be made available until Lebanese authorities commit themselves to the political and economic reforms demanded by the people. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)\nBEIRUT (AP) — Lebanon’s prime minister stepped down from his job Monday in the wake of the catastrophic explosion in Beirut that has triggered public outrage, saying he has come to the conclusion that corruption in the country is “bigger than the state.”\nThe move risks opening the way to dragged-out negotiations over a new Cabinet amid urgent calls for reform. It follows a weekend of anti-government protests after the Aug. 4 explosion in Beirut’s port that decimated the facility and caused widespread destruction, killing at least 160 people and injuring about 6,000 others.\nIn a brief televised speech after three of his ministers resigned, Prime Minister Hassan Diab said he and his government were stepping down.\n“May God protect Lebanon,” he said, repeating the last phrase three times. As he spoke, protesters demonstrated in the streets near parliament for a third straight day.\nThe moment typified Lebanon’s political dilemma. Since October, there have been mass demonstrations demanding the departure of the entire sectarian-based leadership over entrenched corruption, incompetence and mismanagement.\nBut the ruling oligarchy has held onto power for so long — since the end of the civil war in 1990 — that it is difficult to find a credible political figure untainted by connections to it.\nDiab blamed corrupt politicians who preceded him for the “earthquake” that has hit Lebanon.\n“They (the political class) should have been ashamed of themselves because their corruption is what has led to this disaster that had been hidden for seven years,” he added.\n“I have discovered that corruption is bigger than the state and that the state is paralyzed by this (ruling) clique and cannot confront it or get rid of it,” said Diab, who was a professor at the American University of Beirut before he took the job.\nAfter the catastrophe, Diab had sought to stay on for two months to organize new parliamentary elections and allow a map for reforms. But the pressure from within his own Cabinet proved to be too much. With the mass resignation, the call for early elections appears dead, so the same factions will debate on forming a new Cabinet.\nDiab’s government was formed after his predecessor, Saad Hariri, stepped down in October in response to the demonstrations. It took months of bickering among the leadership factions before they settled on Diab.\nHis government, which was dominated by the Hezbollah militant group and its allies and seen as one-sided, was basically doomed from the start, tasked with meeting demands for reform but made up of all the factions that reformers want out.\nNow the process must start again.\n“I hope that the caretaking period will not be long because the country cannot take that. Lets hope a new government will be formed quickly,” Public Works Minister Michel Najjar said. “An effective government is the least we need to get out of this crisis.”\nThe pressure from the streets — and from French President Emmanuel Macron, who visited Beirut last week after the blast — could push the political factions to put aside their differences and form a unity government. Diab’s government largely excluded Hezbollah’s opponents, the Eurasia Group said in an analysis, adding that the factions may now see the need to carry out greater reform.\nThe group said a government of independent experts could be created, although Hezbollah is a main obstacle to that since it fears that would eventually lead to the group being forced out of the political system.\nThe weekend protests saw clashes with security forces firing tear gas at demonstrators.\nThe explosion is believed to have been caused by a fire that ignited a 2,750-ton stockpile of highly volatile ammonium nitrate that had been stored at the port since 2013 with few safeguards despite numerous warnings of the danger.\nThe result was a disaster that the Lebanese people blame squarely on their leadership’s corruption and neglect. Losses from the explosion are estimated at $10 billion to $15 billion, with nearly 300,000 people left homeless.\nOn Monday, a French chemical expert working at the shattered port told The Associated Press that his team is working to secure at least 20 potentially dangerous chemical containers there after finding one that was leaking.\nHe also said there are flammable liquids in other containers as well as batteries and other products that could increase the risk of an explosion, describing huge containers tossed around the port by the powerful blast. The expert identified himself only as Lt. Anthony in accordance with French government policy.\nThe last decision by Diab’s government before its resignation was to refer the case of the explosion to the Supreme Judicial Council, which handles crimes infringing on Lebanon’s national security as well as political and state security crimes. The Supreme Judicial Council is Lebanon’s top judicial body.\nA judge on Monday questioned the heads of the country’s security agencies. Public Prosecutor Ghassan El Khoury questioned Maj. Gen. Tony Saliba, the head of State Security, according to state-run National News Agency. It gave no further details, but other generals are scheduled to be questioned.\nState Security had compiled a report about the dangers of storing the material at the port and sent a copy to the offices of the president and prime minister on July 20. The investigation is focused on how the ammonium nitrate came to be stored at the port and why nothing was done about it.\nNajjar, the public works minister, said he learned about the material’s presence 24 hours before the blast, receiving a report about the material and holding a meeting with port officials before calling its chief, Hassan Korayetem.\n“I wrote a report in the morning the explosion happened in the evening,” Najjar said. Asked why he only learned of it the day before, Najjar said, “I don’t know. Truly I don’t know.”\nAbout 20 people have been detained after the blast, including the head of Lebanon’s customs department and his predecessor, as well as the head of the port. Dozens of people have been questioned, including two former Cabinet ministers, according to government officials.\nOn Sunday, world leaders and international organizations pledged nearly $300 million in emergency humanitarian aid to Beirut, but warned that no money for rebuilding the capital would be made available until Lebanese authorities commit themselves to the political and economic reforms demanded by the people.}}
{{QUINCY — At a celebration to honor the 285th birthday of John Adams, the city’s most famous statesman, Quincy Mayor Thomas Koch joked about the similarities between this year’s presidential election and the one Adams lost to Thomas Jefferson in 1800.\n“I would love to have a conversation today with John Adams about the world we live in,” he said in a ceremony last Friday. “He was very concerned about the kind of two-party system we have today, and we’re seeing the deep divide created by that extreme ideology on both sides ... This is one of the most difficult presidential elections I’ve seen, but in that conversation with John Adams he’d probably say ‘This is nothing compared to the Jefferson race I had.’”\nLittle did the mayor know a week ago that the two elections would end up having more in common than he could have predicted.\nThe similarities between this year’s presidential race and one 220 years ago did not begin on election night, but more than a year ago.\nThe 1800 presidential election, the nation’s fourth, was between Vice President Thomas Jefferson of the Democratic-Republican Party and President John Adams of the Federalist Party, the incumbent. Similarly to the 2020 race, the election was a bitter one that drug on for more than a year — historians describe it as slanderous, contentious and fiercely partisan.\nFederalists said the Democratic-Republican Party was made up of radicals out to ruin the country, and Adams was attacked for favoring Britain and being too moderate a choice.\n“The two candidates today do not come close to the intellect of the two candidates then, but that aside, what we’re seeing is very similar,” Koch said in a separate interview Thursday. “This president has used the term ‘fake news,’ and when you go back to the Jefferson/Adams race, the columnists were hired and paid to write vicious lies about the candidates. It was as nasty and vicious as a campaign has ever been.”\nIt was in the 1800 election that first lady Abigail Adams first noted “electioneering,” or candidates angling for political power for politics sake.\n“Electioneering is already begun,” she noted 13 months before the Electoral College was to meet.\n“It didn’t take long, did it?” Koch said of the nation’s quick dissent into bitter politics. “It is interesting and it makes you think about how history repeats itself. Somebody came to me recently and said ‘We’ve never seen anything like this’ and I thought, ’Well that may be true, but history certainly has ... The battle for the presidency is tough and brutal, no question. I mean, think about what’s at stake. But when you’re crossing that line of decency and respect, the Adams/Jefferson race will always stand out and, no matter the victor, this election will too.”\nOn Thursday morning, more than 36 hours after polls closed, neither Joe Biden nor Donald Trump had secured the 270 electoral votes necessary to win the election. For almost two days, the candidates remained in a deadlock race that had all the makings of an electoral college tie, something Adams learned a thing or two about more than 200 years ago.\nLike in 2020, the election of 1800 came down to the bitter end. Jefferson and Adams were tied with 63 electoral college votes when South Carolina’s electoral representatives, the last to cast their votes, spurred Jefferson to victory.\nWhat drew attention to the election of yesteryear during this fall’s race was not what happened between Adams and Jefferson, but what came after. When it came time to vote, the Democratic-Republican electors — who each had 2 votes — cast their ballots for both Jefferson and his running mate Aaron Burr, 73 in all for each of them. A dead tie.\nOn Wednesday, when Biden was 22 votes from an electoral victory, there were six states with votes up for grabs. Because of the way those states’ votes break down, there was, conceivably, a way for the two candidates to each end up with 269 votes — the first electoral tie since 1880.\nIf there is an electoral tie, the presidential election is left up to members of the House of Representatives. The choice for the vice president is left up to the Senate.\nIn that case, states vote as units. What that means: All of the House members from one state come together and vote, like their own mini state. Each delegation gets one vote. A candidate would need to win the backing of 26 state delegations to win the presidency.\nWhile that particular circumstance didn’t come to pass, Koch said the two races were still too similar for comfort. The nation’s founding fathers, Adams included, would be horrified at the contentious, two-party system that now rules American politics, he said.\n“Both George Washington and John Adams expressed concern about a two party system, and a lot of what they worried about has manifested today: loyalty to party rather than country, loyalty to party values rather than bringing our own values to the party,” Koch said. “The divides are very deep and they’re driving our country.”\nThough the election itself is starting to wind down, Koch said he hopes this year’s race helps citizens understand the dangers of a nation divided. He said a look back at the Adams/Jefferson race can inspire others to do what Adams did — stay true to core values and don’t bend to the pressures of politics.\n“With Adams, you have the issue of slavery as a perfect example. That was troubling to the Founding Fathers, they tried to deal with it early on but they knew, that if they did, they’d lose the support of the southern colonies,” Koch said. “We are still dealing with the stain of that tradition today, but from the beginning John and Abigail Adams were speaking about slavery with disdain for all the right reasons ... They stood up for what they knew was right.”\nDefeated by Thomas Jefferson in the 1800 election, Adams retired to his Quincy home and died there on July 4, 1826, the same day Jefferson died at Monticello in Virginia.}}
{{Beirut explosion: Lebanon's prime minister says those responsible 'will pay the price'\nLatest updates as Lebanon's capital is struck by a huge blast as windows and doors are blown out and a giant mushroom cloud rose above the city.}}
{{hots have reportedly been fired and a female has been still left “critically” wounded after violent clashes broke out among Donald Trump supporters and police in Washington DC.\nThe US Capitol constructing was plunged into lockdown as crowds protesting Joe Biden’s victory in November’s presidential elections stormed by means of stability barricades about the making where politicians experienced fulfilled to vote on the Democrat’s victory.\nProtesters tore down metallic obstacles at the bottom of the Capitol’s techniques and had been achieved by officers in riot equipment.\nSome pushed past the officers who held shields and officers could be observed firing pepper spray into the crowd to maintain them again, and a range shouted “traitors” as officers tried using to block their path.\nThe skirmishes occurred outside the house in the incredibly spot in which President-elect Biden will be inaugurated in just two weeks.\nThe heated confrontations came just soon soon after Mr Trump dealt with thousands of his supporters, riling up the group with his baseless promises of election fraud at a rally near the White Property on Wednesday ahead of Congress’ vote. Breaking NEWS Chelsea Handler claims 50 Cent Was Just Joking Concerning Trump Endorsement\n“We will not enable them silence your voices,” the incumbent president advised the protesters, who had lined up in advance of sunrise to get a primary placement to listen to him speak. “We will under no circumstances give up”.\nTrump urges supporters: In no way concede\nMr Biden, who won the Electoral University 306-232, is to be inaugurated on January 20.\nBut Mr Trump has vowed to “never concede” and previously urged the huge crowd to march to the Capitol.\nIn response to the chaos afterwards in the working day, he tweeted: “Please assist our Capitol Law enforcement and Regulation Enforcement. They are certainly on the aspect of our Country. Stay tranquil!”\nNonetheless, the situation swiftly turned far from tranquil amid reviews of an armed standoff at the entrance to the Dwelling chamber, with lawmakers caught inside of.\nAssociates of Congress had been instructed to set on gas masks immediately after tear gas was dispersed in a bid to quell the clashes. Breaking NEWS Country Reacts To Joe Biden and Kamala Harris Grow With Jubilation And Hope | National News\nBut right after protesters stormed into the creating, politicians, such as Vice President Mike Pence and Speaker Nancy Pelosi, have been evacuated.\nShots posted by journalists within confirmed protesters wearing “Make The usa Wonderful Again” caps squaring off with officers.\nJust one protester who managed to get into the Senate chamber bought up onto the speaking system and yelled: “Trump won that election.”\nVarious dozen had been claimed to be roaming via the halls, yelling: “The place are they?”, when some others have been spotted in the visitors’ galleries.\nJournalist Michael Del Moro, of MSNBC, tweeted a photo of a man or woman evidently being carried out of the constructing by ambulance personnel with “what appears to be a significant injury”.\nCNN later on documented that a lady had been remaining in a “critical condition” after getting shot in the upper body on the Capitol grounds.\nElijah Schaffer, a presenter on the correct-wing Blaze Tv set channel, posted a image which he claimed was taken inside the deserted business of the Residence chief. Breaking NEWS Beyonce, Lady Gaga,'' Miley Cyrus, Jennifer Aniston respond to Joe Biden's success\n“BREAKING: I am inside of Nancy Pelosi’s office environment with the 1000’s of revolutionaries who have stormed the setting up,” he wrote.\n“To set into perspective how immediately employees evacuated, e-mail are nonetheless on the display screen along facet a federal alert warning customers of the existing revolution.”\nIn reaction to the mayhem, the region’s mayor Muriel Bowser ordered a citywide curfew from 6pm tonight until 6am tomorrow.\nDavid Trone, a Democratic congressman from Maryland, explained lawmakers “will not be stopped by this lawless intimidation”.\nTweeting a photograph of himself in a fuel mask, he wrote: “I am risk-free. We have been evacuated.\n“Let me be distinct: we will not be stopped by this lawless intimidation.”}}
{{LONDON, Aug 10 (Reuters) - Insurance claims for damage to ships, goods and the port itself after a warehouse explosion last week in the port of Beirut were likely to total less than $250 million, reinsurance broker Guy Carpenter said on Monday.\nOverall insured losses - including property damage - from the Aug. 4 port warehouse detonation of more than 2,000 tonnes of ammonium nitrate may reach around $3 billion, sources told Reuters last week.\nThe explosion killed at least 163 people, injured more than 6,000 and destroyed swathes of the Mediterranean capital.\nGuy Carpenter said its vessel tracking data showed 10 vessels were within 1.6 kilometers of the blast.\n“We expect those vessels would have incurred damages,” the broker said in a report.\n“Many other vessels were within a radius where sporadic damage may have occurred.”\nThere was still “substantial uncertainty” around insured losses, but early analysis suggested hull, cargo and port facility losses of less than $250 million, Guy Carpenter said.\nWhile insurance penetration in Lebanon is low, commercial and industrial properties near the port were likely covered by international insurers, Guy Carpenter said.\nOther industry sources also say most of the insurance losses would likely relate to wider property damage in Beirut.\nU.S. insurer Liberty Mutual said it expected claims of between $25 million and $50 million from the blast, without giving details of the types of cover affected.\nAXA XL, AXA’s commercial property and casualty insurance unit, said it had exposure in Lebanon but it and other insurers and reinsurers said it was too soon to give a loss estimate. (Reporting by Carolyn Cohn, Noor Zainab Hussain and Jonathan Saul; editing by Barbara Lewis)}}
{{The Democratic candidate won Michigan and Wisconsin and seems to be well placed in other key states. President Trump has filed a series of lawsuits to block his path.\nLike this: Like Loading...}}
{{A massive explosion on the waterfront rocked Lebanon’s capital city of Beirut, wounding many people and causing widespread damage in nearby neighborhoods.\nTwo major explosions shook the Lebanese capital of Beirut, with eyewitness footage capturing the blasts and showing the devastation wreaked in the surrounding area. The blasts have been blamed on a fireworks accident.\nThe first blast struck the city’s port shortly after 6pm local time on Tuesday. Within minutes, reports flowed in of another more devastating explosion. Video footage captured the shock wave striking buildings kilometers away, as a massive mushroom cloud of dust and debris was shot into the sky.\nLebanon’s Ministry of Health instructed all available hospitals to prepare to receive the wounded, while the country’s health minister said on TV that there are a “very high” number of injuries.\nHealth Minister Hamad Hassan told local media that a ship carrying fireworks exploded in the port. Video footage lends weight to his explanation, as it shows a small explosion followed by the crackling of fireworks, before a second and massively destructive blast.\nLocal residents have shared images showing extensive damage to property. The office of the Daily Star newspaper was smashed by the blast, with windows blown out and furniture flung to the ground. France24 correspondent Leila Molana-Allen said that her apartment was “blown apart,” adding that she thinks the blast was caused by a “missile from a jet.”\nMolana-Allen’s neighbors, she added, were left “covered in glass and blood.”}}
{{Seen over new security fencing at bottom, workers fix inaugural stands and platforms that were damaged Friday, Jan. 8, 2021, at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, after Wednesday's riot. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) AP\nPresident Donald Trump’s decision to skip President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration is not without precedent, though one must go back to Andrew Johnson in 1869 to find the most recent example.\nJohn Adams and John Quincy Adams also opted not to participate in a tradition that began with George Washington.\nThe White House Historical Association points out that John Adams was never formally invited by his successor, Thomas Jefferson, to the event and perhaps didn’t want to impose. The association also noted it was the first time the presidency was transferred to an opposing party and “he may have wanted to avoid provoking violence between Federalists and Democratic-Republicans.”\nFollowing in his father’s footsteps, John Quincy Adams officially departed the White House on the evening of March 3, the day before the inauguration of President Andrew Jackson. Jackson has been in Washington for about three weeks. He did not call on Adams, nor did Adams invite Jackson to the White House.\nSome four decades later, President-elect Ulysses S. Grant refused to ride with President Andrew Johnson from the White House to the Capitol for the ceremony. When it was suggested that two carriages carry them separately, Johnson said he would simply not attend the ceremonies, remaining instead at the White House with friends and colleagues and signing last-minute legislation.\n“To me, he is much, much different from the two Adamses in that they truly were statesmen and they just had their reasons to be bitter. But they weren’t bad men,” said Barbara Perry, director of presidential studies at the University of Virginia. “Johnson was a bad man and a bad president.”\nPerry said she is “quite forgiving” of the first Adams because the tradition of attending a successor’s inauguration was just beginning, but less so for his son.\nShe said that over time it has become important symbolically and substantively for outgoing presidents to attend the inauguration of their successor. It reinforces the concept of a peaceful transition of power, but it also tells potential adversaries to be wary of trying to take advantage of the change.\n“We pride ourselves on this peaceful transition of power, but also don’t fool with us, don’t think that because we’re transferring power from one man to another, one party to another, or because we’ve had a controversial election, that we’re enfeebled and that we’re weak and that you can attack us," Perry said.\nNotwithstanding Johnson’s decision to skip the inauguration of Grant, the tradition of an outgoing president attending the inaugural ceremonies took on greater importance after the Civil War, said presidential historian Douglas Brinkley.\n“It’s the ultimate healing gesture. It’s the genius of American reconciliation,” Brinkley said. “It’s with sadness that Trump seems unable to admit defeat and be large enough to wish the new president good luck.\n“But, on the other hand, given what has just happened at the Capitol, you know, the insurrection of the Capitol with Trump’s culpability, the nation may be better off with him not being a part of the healing, because he may have been the cancer on the national ward.”\nIn more modern times, Richard Nixon didn’t attend Gerald Ford’s swearing-in, but there was no pomp and circumstance on that occasion. Rather, Ford was administered the oath of office in the White House East Room shortly after Nixon had tendered his resignation to avoid impeachment.\nPerry said she is not surprised by Trump's decision, but she also believes that many people on both sides of the political aisle are probably good with it.\nBiden, in fact, said he was happy to have Trump stay away.\nPerry added: “Because he is such a polarizing figure, the people who oppose him don’t want to see him there. The people who support him don’t want to see him there because they don’t want him lending legitimacy to Joe Biden or the incoming administration. They want to keep fighting."}}
{{US President Donald Trump (Left) and Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden. — AFP/Reuters/Files\nUS President Donald Trump visits five swing states Sunday in a punishing finale to a frantic weekend sprint against challenger Joe Biden just days ahead of the US Presidential election 2020.\nThe candidates and their top surrogates barreled through crucial states in the industrial Midwest and coastal southeast on Saturday, pressing closing arguments.\nTrump will rally voters Sunday with an exhausting schedule in toss-up states Michigan, Iowa, North Carolina, Georgia and Florida while Biden focuses on Pennsylvania, a key battleground likely to play a crucial role in Tuesday's election.\nUnderscoring the high stakes — and the disruptive impact of the coronavirus pandemic — a record 92 million early votes have already been cast, as the bruising contest heads toward the biggest turnout in at least a century.\nUS election 2020: Joe Biden leads in polls, Donald Trump close in swing states\nUsing some of his most urgent language yet, Trump warned Saturday of "bedlam in our country" if no clear winner emerges quickly in the election, saying, without evidence, that it could take weeks to sort out a result and that "very bad things" could happen in the interim.\nBiden meanwhile told backers it was "time for Donald Trump to pack his bags and go home."\nThe virus has killed more than 230,000 Americans, ravaged the world's largest economy and is infecting record numbers of people across the US.\nThe election takes place in a deeply divided country, with feelings so raw that gun sales have surged in some areas. Businesses in some cities, including Washington, are protectively boarding windows, and police are preparing for the possibility of violence.\nUS election 2020: Trump, Biden make late push as early voting gathers momentum\nTrump focused Saturday on Pennsylvania — "the state where the story of American independence began," he said in the small city of Newtown, the first of four stops in that state amid a frenetic final sprint.\nBiden made his first joint appearance of the campaign with his former boss Barack Obama — probably the most popular Democrat in the country — in Flint, Michigan as they scrambled to boost turnout in a state Trump carried by a razor-thin margin in 2016.\n'Life or death'\nPennsylvania has emerged as one of the top prizes this year.\nIn his motorcade en route to rural Bucks County, the president passed hundreds of supporters holding up a forest of pro-Trump signs. The crowd then booed trailing vehicles that were carrying reporters, a regular target of Trump's attacks.\nIn remarks he lashed out at Biden, saying he would shut down the state's fossil-fuel industry.\nThe president claimed credit for creating the "greatest economy in the history of this country — the history of the world" — while "foreign nations are in freefall."\nUS election 2020: COVID-19 deaths eroding Americans' support for Republicans at all federal levels\nDespite recent signs of recovery from the virus-induced economic pain, however, millions remain jobless.\nThe campaign has been overshadowed by the surging pandemic, which even sickened Trump and members of his staff.\nStanford University economists estimated in a study out Thursday that 18 of Trump's campaign rallies had resulted in more than 30,000 coronavirus cases and more than 700 deaths — although not necessarily among attendees — based on statistical modeling.\nIn stark contrast to Trump, who has belittled mask-wearing by Biden and others, the Democrat has scrupulously followed the guidance of public health experts.\nAfter Biden and Obama appeared Saturday before a socially distanced drive-in rally in Flint, they made an unannounced stop in suburban Bloomfield Hills before heading to Detroit, where they were joined by superstar singer Stevie Wonder.\nBiden leads in the state by nearly seven points, according to a RealClearPolitics average of polls. Michigan's 16 electoral votes could provide a sizable leap towards the 270 needed to win the White House.\nTrump, in eking out his 2016 victory, took advantage of low turnout rates among Black Michigan voters. As Biden campaigns with the nation's first Black president, he clearly hopes to change that.\nObama pulled few punches in Flint and Detroit, saying 140,000 American lives would have been saved if the president had taken an approach to the pandemic similar to Canada's.\n"This is not a contest of just calling each other names," Obama said.\n"This isn't a sporting event. This is life or death."\nBiden said "we're done with the chaos, the tweets, the anger, the failure, the refusal to take any responsibility."\nBiden's campaign announced he will address the nation on election night from his home base of Wilmington, after a vote that will undoubtedly leave millions bitterly disappointed, no matter who wins.\nAfter a campaign largely muted by the pandemic, Biden has taken the offensive, pushing Trump onto the back foot in unexpected battlegrounds like Georgia and Texas, a large, traditionally conservative bastion now seen as a toss-up.\nOn Friday, Texas reported a staggering nine million residents had already voted, surpassing its 2016 total.}}
{{Emmanuelle was preparing yourself to deliver at St George’s health center in Beirut when an explosion rocked Lebanon’s capital.\nHer other half Edmond recorded the frightening experience on electronic camera. He talked to BBC World News about what took place.\nTheir child, George, shown up quickly after. Mum and infant are both succeeding.}}
{{Anger and dismay was building in Beirut today as officials admitted that a massive port explosion that killed at least 135 people, injured thousands and left many more homeless was foreseeable and had been the subject of repeated warnings.\nWith Lebanon’s capital still smouldering, an emerging paper trail linked the blast to a mammoth stash of ammonium nitrate that was once described as a “floating bomb” and housed at the port since 2014. As recently as six months ago, officials inspecting the stash warned that if it was not moved it would “blow up all of Beirut”.\nThe revelation that government negligence may have played a role in the worst explosion in Beirut’s history fuelled new anger towards Lebanon’s political class among a population already seething at an ongoing financial crisis that has sunk half the country into poverty. Demonstrators in downtown Beirut attacked the convoy of former Lebanese prime minister Saad Hariri and brawled with his bodyguards in the most overt display of wider anger that is building against Lebanese politicians in the wake of the disaster.\nThe government said on Wednesday evening it was putting an unspecified number of Beirut port officials under house arrest pending an investigation into how the highly explosive materials came to be stored less than one hundred metres from a residential neighbourhoods. The national cabinet also declared a two-week state of emergency, effectively giving the military full powers in the capital.\nThe death toll climbed to more than 135 people according to the Lebanese Red Cross with another 4,000 wounded. Up to 300,000 people had suffered damage to their homes, leaving some uninhabitable, Beirut’s governor Marwan Abboud said. At least dozens of people are still missing, feared buried under rubble.\nResidents across the city were sweeping shattered glass and other debris from their homes on Wednesday morning as blame for the tragedy started to be apportioned on social media and Lebanese TV channels.\nThe Lebanese prime minister on Tuesday night had blamed the explosion on 2,750-tonne store of ammonium nitrate, a chemical used in bombs and fertilisers, that had been stored at the port. Media reports from 2014 claimed a Russian-owned vessel carrying that load was impounded at Beirut’s port that year, after making an emergency stop in the city and being denied permission to leave by customs authorities because it was deemed unseaworthy.\nThe former captain of the vessel, the Rhosus, alleged in an interview with Russian journalists six years ago that the owner of the ship, reported as Igor Grechushkin, had abandoned it along with the crew, who were being “held hostage” by customs authorities. “The owner has abandoned the ship. The cargo is ammonium nitrate. It is an explosive substance. And we’ve been abandoned. We’ve been living for 10 months on a powder keg.”\nThe Guardian has not been able to verify the claims Grechushkin was the ship’s owner and has attempted to contact him for comment.\nIn another letter published by a journalist in touch with the crew, the ship was described as “a floating bomb and the crew is a hostage aboard this bomb.”\nThe mostly Ukrainian crew were held onboard the ship for nearly a year before they were released, their lawyers said in a 2015 note, and the ammonium nitrate was confiscated and held at the port in a warehouse.\nIn an interview with Radio Free Europe on Wednesday, the ship’s captain denied there were problems with the ship and said it was detained for failing to pay port fees. The International Transport Workers Federation, which sought back wages and repatriation for the crew, confirmed that the ship was being held in part because it owed the port $100,000 in unpaid bills. In an interview with Radio Free Europe on Wednesday, the ship’s captain at the time, Boris Prokoshev, said he had been in direct contact with Grechushkin, whom he called the ship’s owner.\nBadri Daher, the director-general of Lebanese Customs, told broadcaster LBCI on Wednesday morning that in the years that folllowed, his agency had sent six documents to the judiciary warning that the material posed a danger. “We requested that it be re-exported but that did not happen,” he said. “We leave it to the experts and those concerned to determine why.”\nStory continues}}
{{Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp on Saturday said the decision to pull the Major League Baseball All-Star Game over objections to changes to his state’s voting laws was a “political play.”\nAppearing on “Fox & Friends Weekend,” Kemp said it was “unfortunate” that the league had “caved to cancel culture” and accused President Biden, Georgia activist Stacey Abrams and “a lot of other people” of lying about the election bill he recently signed into law.\nGEORGIA GOV. KEMP RIPS MLB FOR BOYCOTT ‘HYPOCRISY’: WHY IS THEIR HQ IN ‘STRICTER’ NEW YORK?\n“It’s really a sad day for Major League Baseball,” the Republican governor said. “As somebody that grew up playing baseball as a kid and a fan, played in high school, you know, big Braves fan — I mean, this is terrible for the organization. It’s terrible for the fans. It’s terrible for the small business owners in the metro Atlanta community, and our state that was looking forward to hosting this game and had put a lot of resources into it. All because of a big lie.”\nKemp signed the bill on March 25. The legislation places new restrictions on voting by mail, adds voter ID requirements and limits ballot drop boxes. It also mandates two Saturdays of early voting ahead of general elections, an increase from just one, and leaves two Sundays as optional.\nLastly, it bans outside groups from handing out food or water to those waiting in line to vote.\nCritics argue the Republican-sponsored legislation is an attempt to suppress Democratic votes. Biden blasted the law, calling it “despicable” and “un-American” in his first press conference last month.\n“This is Jim Crow in the 21st Century. It must end,” he said in a March 23 statement.\nIn her own statement Friday, Abrams wrote that Republican lawmakers had defended the voting bill “knowing the economic risks” and ” prioritized making it harder for people of color to vote over the economic well-being of all Georgians.”\n“I am disappointed that the MLB is relocating the All-Star game; however I commend the players, owners and League commissioner for speaking out. I urge others in positions of leadership to do so as well,” she said. “As I have stated, I respect boycotts, although I don’t want to see Georgia families hurt by lost events and jobs. Georgians targeted by voter suppression will be hurt as opportunities go to other states. We should not abandon the victims of GOP malice and lies — we must stand together.”\nAbrams called on Georgia Republicans to “renounce the terrible damage they have cause to [Georgia’s] voting system” and “the harm they have inflicted on our economy.”\nMounting pressure, the statements from Biden and the support of activists such as Abrams led MLB Commissioner Robert Manfred to announce the move.\n“Major League Baseball fundamentally supports voting rights for all Americans and opposes restrictions to the ballot box,” he said.\nDelta’s CEO Ed Bastian also called the law “unacceptable,” and Coca-Cola chief executive James Quincey said the legislation was a “step backward.”\nHowever, Kemp argued — echoing his Friday interview on “Tucker Carlson Tonight” — that the bill “does not suppress anything” and argued that the new law compares favorably to New York.\n“We have 17 days of in-person early voting. New York has 10. This bill adds the opportunity for people potentially to vote on two optional Sundays, which would give potentially some counties 19 days,” he told the “Fox and Friends” hosts.\n“Are we boycotting them because they’re in New York? No. This is just the cancel culture, and I will tell you, the people at home should be scared because their ballgame is next, their business will be next, their way of life will be next.”\nMLB SAYS ALL-STAR GAME WILL BE RELOCATED FROM GEORGIA IN RESPONSE TO VOTING LAW\nKemp said Biden wasn’t being truthful and that “suppression” was “just a buzzword” used to “browbeat” CEOs and corporate boardrooms.\n“None of them are citing specifics in the bill. If you’ll notice, they’re just saying, you know, ‘This is a step backwards.’ Or, you know, ‘This is wrong.’ Or whatever,” he added. “Like none of them are pointing to specifics in the bill because they know damn well their people were in the Capitol working with us on the bill. They knew what was in it and now their position has changed.”\nKemp said he agreed with former President Donald Trump, who said in a Friday statement that MLB’s leadership was “afraid of the Radical Left Democrats.”\n“Boycott baseball and all of the woke companies that are interfering with Free and Fair Elections. Are you listening Coke, Delta, and all!” he said.\n“Well, I think the [former] president — like me — is very frustrated at this canceled culture,” Kemp remarked, noting that the Atlanta Braves organization did not support MLB’s decision and that “even Democrats are coming out saying how wrong it is to move the game.”\nHe said he would be “glad” to have a discussion with MLB about the issue — a sentiment mirrored by Republican ,Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger — but noted he believes the “playbook for this” was already “written over a month ago” because Democrats like Biden and Abrams thought it was “going to be bad.”\n“But, you know, the end result was not because it went through the process. We worked with the House and the Senate with reasonable people, got things in there to provide even more access, but also just make sure that in Georgia it’s easy to vote and hard to cheat. And, I guess they don’t agree with that,” he mused.\nKemp pointed out that the bill had been worked on for more than four or five months and “none of these people” had “said anything.”\n“The issues that they did say something about, you know at the end of the day, didn’t end up in the bill which is how the process is supposed to work,” Kemp said. “It’s just so sad for baseball fans that the league has now made baseball in the United States of America so political.”\nCLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP\nThe governor believes the liberal push to pass HR1, also known as the “For the People Act,” is to blame. The legislation would require all states to offer mail-in ballots and automatic voter registration, among other things.\n“This is a political play by the president and Stacey Abrams and a lot of other people that want HR1 one to pass,” Kemp added.\nFox News’ Paulina Dedaj and The Associated Press contributed to this report.}}
{{The Lebanese government has declared a two-week state of emergency in Beirut, effectively giving the military full powers, after a massive explosion devastated Lebanon's capital and killed at least 135 people.\nAbout 5,000 people were wounded in the blast and rescue workers continued the search for survivors on Wednesday, combing through the wreckage of buildings. Dozens of people remained missing and the death toll was expected to rise.\nThe cause of the explosion was not immediately clear but officials have linked it to a large stockpile of ammonium nitrate that was stored at the port for years.\nAfter an emergency Cabinet meeting on Wednesday, the government said it would place an unspecified number of Beirut port officials under house arrest pending an investigation into how the highly explosive material came to be stored at the port.\nThe government said the military would oversee the house arrest of those responsible for storage and guarding at the Beirut port from June 2014 until the explosion.\nThe responsible officials would be put under house arrest "as soon as possible" after their identities were determined by an investigative committee headed by the justice minister and including the prime minister and the heads of major security agencies, Information Minister Manal Abdelsamad said.\nThe house arrest would be done "within the next five days", the period given for the investigative committee to conclude its findings and hand them over to the judiciary, the minister said.\nState prosecutor Ghassan Oueidat ordered security agencies to start an immediate investigation and collect all reports and letters related to the materials stored at the port as well as lists of people in charge of maintenance, storage and protection of the hangar.\nPresident Michel Aoun said 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate, used in fertilisers and bombs, had been stored for six years at the port without safety measures.\nHe said in a national address that the government was "determined to investigate and expose what happened as soon as possible, to hold the responsible and the negligent accountable."\n'Dozens missing'\nThe explosion on Tuesday destroyed much of the port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky.\nAl Jazeera's Zeina Khodr, reporting from Beirut, said dozens of people remained unaccounted for.\n"Families are searching for answers ... dozens of families do not know the fate of their loved ones," she said on Tuesday.\nThe explosion, hitting with the force of a 3.5-magnitude earthquake, was the biggest ever seen in Beirut, a city rocked by a 1975-1990 civil war and bombarded in conflicts with Israel.\nLebanon, an eastern Mediterranean nation of six million people, is in the throes of an economic meltdown that has crushed businesses, thrown tens of thousands of people out of work and led the currency to dramatically depreciate.\nThose hardships have only intensified in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.}}
{{Volunteers from around Beirut worked to clean up a hard-hit residential area near the port following the massive explosion that devastated much of the city on Wednesday.\nThey gathered in the neighbourhood of Gemmayze where there was widespread damage and worked through the day to sweep up broken glass and clear some of the rubble.\nHundreds of thousands of Beirut residents have been left homeless.\nInvestigators probing the deadly blast have focused on possible negligence in the storage of tons of a highly explosive fertiliser in a waterfront warehouse, while the government ordered the house arrest of several port officials.}}
{{Joe Biden’s Democratic presidential campaign is reserving $280 million in digital and television ads through the fall, nearly twice the amount President Donald Trump’s team has reserved.\nThe Biden campaign announced in a Wednesday memo it’s reserving $220 million in television airtime and $60 million in digital ads, in contrast to the $147 million the Trump campaign has reserved, according to a review of Kantar/CMAG data by The Associated Press. Both campaigns can add to or subtract from their reservations at any time.\nBiden, the presumptive Democratic nominee, is reserving airtime in 15 states, which includes a number of traditional swing states — Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin and Florida — as well as a number of historically Republican states, including Arizona, Georgia and Texas, and a few traditional swing states that seemed to be moving away from Democrats in recent years, such as Ohio and Iowa. His campaign says a “significant portion” of the reservation will be minute-long ads.\nIt’s part of an effort to solidify what Biden aides say are the multiple paths to an Electoral College victory open to Biden heading into November. The campaign says it will continue to drive home a message focused on what it says is Trump’s lack of leadership on the coronavirus and that it sees Biden as the best messenger in the ads.\n“We think it’s important that people see him, and hear him, because it goes to the issue of leadership, and the kind of reassuring presence and stable leadership which we believe people see in Joe Biden,” said Biden senior strategist Mike Donilon.\nBut campaign aides said Biden’s vice presidential pick, whom he’s expected to announce next week, will have a “robust presence” on the campaign, including advertising.\nOn digital, the campaign is reserving ads on streaming services like Hulu, YouTube and ESPN, as well as podcasts and mobile and online gaming platforms.\nThe campaign also plans to launch an “unprecedented” paid media campaign to educate voters on their options for voting, heading into an election year when record numbers of voters are expected to vote via mail due to the coronavirus pandemic and new registration and voting requirements and options have cropped up in states nationwide in recent months. Patrick Bonsignore, the campaign’s director of paid media, said much of the campaign’s reservation is focused on the summer and early fall, when early voting starts in some key states.\n“We know that in a pandemic, we are in unprecedented times,” said Biden campaign manager Jen O’Malley Dillon. “We’ve seen chaos in recent primary elections, and we know that our responsibility is to make sure that we give voters everything they need to be able to vote, vote early and vote safely. We believe that our advertising strategy is going to do just that and serve as a way to break through from a lot of the misinformation out there.”\nIn the memo, Biden’s aides also highlighted their advertising efforts aimed at key constituencies, like Black, Latino and Asian American and Pacific Islander voters. They say they’re able to reach about half of all Black households nationwide through their reservations on key Black media properties and note they’re airing ads that feature different Spanish accents targeting diverse Latino populations in key regions nationwide.\n___________________________________\nCopyright © 2020 Capitol Hill Blue\nCopyright © 2020 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved\nShare this: Facebook\nTwitter\nLinkedIn\nEmail\nPrint\nLike this: Like Loading...}}
{{National Post:\n‘Balconies were blown off buildings. Glass in high-rise buildings shattered and fell to the street’\nVideo courtesy of DW News channel\nUpdate: Death toll currently estimated at 50 people.\nA huge explosion near the centre of Beirut killed at least 25 people, injured hundreds and sent shockwaves across the Lebanese capital on Tuesday, shattering windows and causing apartment balconies to collapse.\nLebanon’s health minister said more than 2,500 had been injured in the blast at the Beirut port area.\nThe most powerful explosion to hit Beirut in years shook the ground, leaving some residents thinking an earthquake had struck. Dazed and weeping, some of them wounded, people walked through streets checking to see if relatives were hurt.\nLebanon’s interior minister said initial information indicated highly explosive material, seized years ago, that had been stored there had blown up. Lebanon-based broadcaster Mayadeen cited the country’s customs director saying tonnes of nitrate exploded.\nFootage of the explosion shared by residents on social media initially showed a column of smoke rising from the port district followed by an enormous blast that sent a ball of white smoke and fireball into the sky. Those filming the incident from high buildings in other areas of the city were thrown backwards by the shock.\nMORE VIDEO:\nAftermath from a distance (Washington Post channel)\nAftermath close up (WFAA channel) – WARNING\nRead more at The National Post}}
{{A number of Beirut port officials are being placed under house arrest pending an investigation into Tuesday’s huge explosion, Lebanon’s government says.\nThe blast killed at least 135 people and injured more than 4,000 others. A two-week state of emergency has begun.\nPresident Michel Aoun said the blast was caused by 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate stored unsafely in a warehouse.\nCustoms chief Badri Daher said his agency called for the chemical to be removed, but “this did not happen”.\n“We leave it to the experts to determine the reasons,” he said.\nOpening an emergency cabinet meeting on Wednesday, President Aoun said: “No words can describe the horror that has hit Beirut last night, turning it into a disaster-stricken city”.\nSpecialists at the University of Sheffield in the UK estimate that the blast had about one tenth of the explosive power of the atomic bomb dropped on the Japanese city of Hiroshima during World War Two and was “unquestionably one of the biggest non-nuclear explosions in history”.\nWhat triggered the explosion?\nThe ammonium nitrate had reportedly been in a warehouse in Beirut port for six years after it was unloaded from a ship impounded in 2013.\nThe head of Beirut port and the head of the customs authority both told local media that they had written to the judiciary several times asking that the chemical be exported or sold on to ensure port safety.\nPort General Manager Hassan Koraytem told OTV that they had been aware that the material was dangerous when a court first ordered it stored in the warehouse, “but not to this degree”.\nLebanon’s Supreme Defence Council has vowed that those found responsible will face the “maximum punishment” possible.\nEconomy Minister Raoul Nehme told the BBC: “I think it is incompetence and really bad management and there are a lot of responsibilities from management and probably previous governments. We do not intend after such an explosion to stay silent on who is responsible for what.”\nHouse arrest would apply for all port officials “who have handled the affairs of storing [the] ammonium nitrate, guarding it and handling its paperwork” since June 2014, Information Minister Manal Abdel Samad said.}}
{{Results from Tuesday's vote were still being tabulated in a few key states, though Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden was near the minimum 270 votes in the state-by-state Electoral College needed to win the White House.\nThe policy statement released after the U.S. central bank's latest two-day meeting did not mention the election.\nIn a news conference after the release of the statement, Fed Chair Jerome Powell said the U.S. economy is now recovering more slowly after being boosted earlier in the year by fiscal aid and the re-opening of some businesses.\n"The overall rebound in household spending owes in part to stimulus payments and expanded unemployment benefits, which provided essential support to many families and individuals," Powell told reporters.\nHe also said the recent rise in coronavirus infections in the United States and abroad was "particularly concerning," and said social distancing and masks were needed to help contain the virus and support the economy.\n"A full economic recovery is unlikely until people are confident that it's safe to reengage in a broad range of activities," Powell said.\nIn a statement virtually unchanged from the one issued at its September policy meeting, the Fed's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee repeated its pledge to use its "full range of tools" to support the economy, and promised not to consider raising interest rates until maximum employment had been restored and inflation was heading above its 2% target.\n"Economic activity and employment have continued to recover but remain well below their levels at the beginning of the year," it said in a unanimous statement which left the central bank's key overnight interest rate unchanged at near zero. "The COVID-19 pandemic is causing tremendous human and economic hardship across the United States and around the world."\nThe Fed said it would for now continue buying "at least" $120 billion per month in government bonds and use its other tools and programs as needed depending on how the economy evolves.\nRISKS TO RECOVERY\nThe U.S. employment report for October, due to be released by the Labor Department on Friday, will give the latest glimpse of how quickly the economy is pulling the millions unemployed by the pandemic back into jobs.\nBut beyond that the Fed will now be waiting to see whether Biden does indeed win the presidency or whether Republican President Donald Trump manages to remain in power, and what either scenario could mean in terms of additional government spending to help those out of work.\n"The risks to the economic recovery have increased since the Fed last met in September, with rising coronavirus cases, slower job growth, a lack of new stimulus for consumers and small businesses, and now an unresolved presidential election," Greg McBride, Bankrate.com's chief financial analyst, said in an email. "The Fed has done what they can do at this point, despite saying they have a range of tools still available."\nU.S. stocks, up sharply before the Fed's statement was released, showed little immediate response and remained higher on the day. Yields on U.S. Treasury debt securities were little changed, and the dollar remained softer on the day against a basket of major trading partners' currencies.\n(Reporting by Howard Schneider, Ann Saphir and Jonnelle Marte; Editing by Paul Simao)\nBy Howard Schneider, Ann Saphir and Jonnelle Marte}}
{{BEIRUT (AP) — Lebanese Health Minister Hassan Hamad said more than 25 people were killed and over 2,500 were injured in a massive explosion that rocked Beirut on Tuesday.\nThe blast flattened much of the port, damaging buildings and blowing out windows and doors across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky.\nHours later, ambulances were still carrying away the wounded. Officials said bodies were buried under the rubble and Beirut’s hospitals were full. Army helicopters helped battle fires raging at the port.\nThe cause of the blast was not immediately known.\nAbbas Ibrahim, chief of Lebanese General Security, said it might have been caused by highly explosive material that was confiscated from a ship some time ago and stored at the port. Local television channel LBC said the material was sodium nitrate.\nAn Israeli government official said Israel “had nothing to do” with the blast. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter with the media. Israeli officials usually do not comment on “foreign reports.”\nThe blast was stunning even for a city that has seen civil war, suicide bombings and bombardment by Israel. It could be heard and felt as far away as Cyprus, more than 200 kilometers (180 miles) across the Mediterranean.\nBeirut: Monent of explosion pic.twitter.com/ucagaT7P3P — Amichai Stein (@AmichaiStein1) August 4, 2020\n“It was a real horror show. I haven’t seen anything like that since the days of the (civil) war,” said Marwan Ramadan, who was about 500 meters (yards) from the port and was knocked off his feet by the force of the explosion.\nEmergency teams streamed in from across Lebanon to help a health care system already strained by the coronavirus. Red Cross official Georges Kettaneh said the injured were being taken to hospitals outside the capital because facilities there were at capacity. He put the number of casualties in the hundreds but said he did not have exact figures on dead or injured.\nSome of those injured lay on the ground at the port, Associated Press staff at the scene said. A civil defense official said there were still bodies inside the port, many of them under debris.\nWitnesses reported seeing a strange orange-colored cloud over the site after the explosion. Orange clouds of toxic nitrogen dioxide gas often accompany an explosion involving nitrates.\nI am getting a lot of videos from the ground and from the family WhatsApp group.\nI will be posting them here.\nDamage around the explosion area. #Lebanon pic.twitter.com/DJ4zPB8nst — Abir Ghattas (@AbirGhattas) August 4, 2020\nInitially, video taken by residents showed a fire raging at the port, sending up a giant column of smoke, illuminated by flashes of what appear to be fireworks. Local TV stations reported that a fireworks warehouse was involved.\nThe fire then appeared to catch at a nearby building, triggering a more massive explosion, sending up a mushroom cloud and a shock wave.\nCharbel Haj, who works at the port, said it started as small explosions like firecrackers. Then, he said, he was thrown off his feet by the huge blast. His clothes were torn.\nMiles from the port, building facades were shredded, balconies were knocked down and windows shattered. Streets were covered with glass and bricks and lined with wrecked cars. Motorcyclists picked their way through traffic, carrying the injured.\nOne woman covered in blood from the waist up walked down a trashed street while talking furiously on her phone. On another street, a woman with a bloodied face looked distraught, staggering through traffic with two friends at her side.\n“This country is cursed,” a young man passing by muttered.\nStunning video shows explosions just minutes ago at Beirut port pic.twitter.com/ZjltF0VcTr — Borzou Daragahi 🖊🗒 (@borzou) August 4, 2020\nThe blast came at a time when Lebanon’s economy is facing collapse, hit both by a financial crisis and coronavirus restrictions. Many have lost jobs, while the worth of their savings has evaporated as the currency has plunged in value against the dollar. The result has thrown many into poverty.\nIt also occurred amid rising tensions between Israel and the militant Hezbollah group along Lebanon’s southern border.\nThe explosion was reminiscent of massive blasts during Lebanon’s civil war and took place only three days before a U.N.-backed tribunal was set to give its verdict in the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in a truck bombing more than 15 years ago. That explosion, with a ton of explosives, was felt miles away, just like Tuesday’s explosion.\nOutside the St. George University Hospital in Beirut’s Achrafieh neighborhood, people with various injuries arrived in ambulances, in cars and on foot. The explosion had caused major damage inside the building and knocked out the electricity at the hospital. Dozens of injured were being treated on the spot on the street outside, on stretchers and wheelchairs.\n“This is a catastrophe we have on our hands,” said one doctor, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to make press statements.}}
{{The Conversation\nAs Americans watch the Electoral College process of choosing a president continue to play out, they may be unaware that voters in Mississippi just decided to get rid of a similar system in their state.Like the national system of electors, the Mississippi system had its roots in both a racist election process and the desire to protect the needs of rural residents from being ignored or overruled by city dwellers.The state’s 1890 Constitution requires a candidate for statewide office to win not only the majority of the popular vote, but also a majority of the 122 state House districts. A candidate could win the statewide popular vote, but if they didn’t win the majority of the state House districts, the election would be decided by the state House of Representatives. Those representatives weren’t required to vote in accordance with the majority in their district. This requirement has been cited as reducing the chances for nonwhite candidates to be elected to statewide office. In a state where 56% of the population is white – the rest are Black, Hispanic, Asian, Native or multiracial – 66% of the House districts are majority white. Rarely used and now expiredThe state House has made the decision only a small number of times, and just once at the level of the governor’s race. In 1999, then-Lt. Gov. Ronnie Musgrove, a Democrat, defeated Republican Mike Parker in a very tight contest. Musgrove won a plurality of the statewide popular vote, 49.6% to 48.5%.But each candidate won 61 of the House districts, sending the decision to the state House of Representatives. At that time, Democrats held 84 seats, ensuring a majority. Two Republicans joined them to elect Musgrove by a margin of 86-36.Twenty years later, as Election Day approached, the gubernatorial election was again considered close enough to potentially trigger this process. But ultimately, it didn’t happen: Republican Tate Reeves, then serving as lieutenant governor, beat then-state Attorney General Jim Hood, a Democrat, 52% to 46%. Reeves also won 74 of the 122 state House districts.However, in advance of that election, four Black Mississippi residents filed a lawsuit claiming the system violated their federal civil rights. The Mississippi Legislature responded by asking voters whether this Jim Crow-era process should still exist. Changing the rulesIn the November 2020 election, Mississippi voters decided to end that process and replace it with the requirement that a candidate get a majority of the votes cast or face a runoff election if nobody gets more than 50% of the vote. In other states, this process has its own racist history as a way to limit Blacks’ political power. [Deep knowledge, daily. Sign up for The Conversation’s newsletter.]Supported by more than 78% of the state’s voters during an election with record turnout, the change formally took effect this month. The people of Mississippi and their elected officials have sent a clear message that for statewide elections, they prefer the popular vote over a system like the Electoral College.This article is republished from The Conversation, a nonprofit news site dedicated to sharing ideas from academic experts. It was written by: Dallas Breen, Mississippi State University.Read more: * Electoral College benefits whiter states, study shows * Why does the Electoral College exist, and how does it work? 5 essential readsDallas Breen does not work for, consult, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organization that would benefit from this article, and has disclosed no relevant affiliations beyond their academic appointment.}}
{{A HUGE explosion has killed at least 135 people and left more than 5,000 injured after the blast devastated parts of Lebanon's capital Beirut.\nPictures show buildings destroyed, people walking wounded, and a sea of wreckage after the blast that could be heard some 125 miles away in Cyprus.\nIt has been reported the blast in Lebanon - which created a mushroom cloud - was a fifth the size of Hiroshima World War 2 bombing.\nLebanon's state news agency NNA and two security sources said the blast had occurred in the port area where there are warehouses housing explosives, reports Reuters.\nSecurity sources have revealed that 2,700 tonnes of ammonium nitrate stored in the warehouse are to blame for the blast, while a welder is claimed to have sparked the fire that led to the explosion.\nFollow for the latest news and updates on Beirut...}}
{{President-elect Joe Biden is expected to nominate Rhode Island Gov. Gina Raimondo as Commerce Secretary according to multiple reports.\nRaimondo, Rhode Island’s first female governor elected in 2015, has a professional background as a venture capitalist and was elected to serve as general treasurer of Rhode Island in 2010.\nCommerce Secretary is a key economic position given the agency’s role in everything from technology policy to climate change.\nRaimondo was also in contention to run the Treasury Department and the Department of Health and Human Services.\nThe appointment is expected to be announced on Friday.\nRhode Island Lieutenant Governor Dan McKee will replace Raimondo once her nomination is confirmed by the U.S. Senate.}}
{{Voters in Georgia cast their ballots on Tuesday in a pair of runoff elections to determine control of the U.S. Senate and potentially the fate of Democratic President-elect Joe Biden's ambitious legislative agenda. Republican senators David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler faced Democratic challengers Jon Ossoff, a documentary filmmaker, and the Reverend Raphael Warnock, a pastor at a Black church in Atlanta.\nDemocrats must win both contests in Georgia, which Biden narrowly carried against Republican President Donald Trump in the Nov. 3 presidential election, to take control of the Senate. A double win for the Democrats would create a 50-50 split in the Senate, leaving Vice President-elect Kamala Harris with the tie-breaking vote and giving Democrats control of the chamber. The party already has a majority in the House of Representatives.\nIf Republicans hold onto the Senate, they would effectively wield veto power over Biden's political and judicial appointees as well as many of his policy initiatives in areas such as economic relief, climate change, healthcare and criminal justice. Georgia results are expected to be known by Wednesday morning, according to state officials.\nNo Democrat has won a Senate race in Georgia in two decades, but opinion surveys show both races as exceedingly close. The runoff elections, a quirk of state law, became necessary when no candidate in either senatorial race exceeded 50% of the vote in November. Overall, voting appeared to be relatively problem-free on Tuesday, with long lines in a few locations. The state's voting systems manager, Gabriel Sterling, said in a midday post on Twitter that the average statewide wait time was only 1 minute.\nIn Cobb County outside Atlanta, Scott Sweeney, 63, said he voted for Perdue and Loeffler to impose a check on Democratic power. "I believe the two of them are consistent with my values," Sweeney said. "Taxes for one, and traditional values."\nRoshard Tamplin, 42, said he supported the two Democrats, citing civil rights and voting rights as important issues. "They're trying to make it harder to vote, especially for Black people," Tamplin, who is Black, said of Republicans.\nThe final days of the tense contests, which set records for campaign spending and early turnout in Georgia, were dominated by Trump's continued efforts to subvert the presidential election results. On Saturday, Trump pressured Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, a fellow Republican, to "find" enough votes to reverse Biden's victory, again falsely claiming massive fraud.\nTrump's efforts to undo his loss - with some Republicans planning to object to the certification of Biden's win when Congress meets on Wednesday to formally count the presidential vote - have caused a split in his party and condemnation from critics who accuse him of undermining democracy. Biden is set to take office on Jan. 20.\nAt a rally in Georgia on Monday, Trump again claimed falsely that he had won the state and declared the Nov. 3 vote "rigged," an assertion that some Republicans have worried will dissuade his supporters from voting on Tuesday. Both Loeffler and Perdue have strongly backed Trump's challenge to Biden's win. Biden, who held his own rally on Monday in Atlanta, was the first Democratic presidential candidate to win in Georgia since 1992.\nIn Marrieta, LaVonte Jackson, 42, voted for the Democrats, saying, "Kamala and Biden have a lot of work to do, especially after four years of Trump. I don't know if there's been a more important vote." Jonathan Temple, 57, said he feared Democrats would increase spending and taxes if given unfettered authority in Washington.\n"It looks like we've lost the White House for sure, even though there are some issues still out there," he said. "But we have to hold on to the Senate. If we lose, we'll get higher taxes for sure - you can bet on it." Wall Street's main indexes rose after a weak start on Tuesday as investors awaited the outcome in Georgia.\nHISTORIC CANDIDACIES If elected, Warnock would become Georgia's first Black U.S. senator and Ossoff, at 33, the Senate's youngest member. Perdue is a former Fortune 500 executive who has served one Senate term. Loeffler, one of the wealthiest members of Congress, was appointed a year ago to fill the seat of a retiring senator.\nRaffensperger told Fox News the election results will likely be known on Wednesday morning. Raffensperger said Trump's false claims on voter fraud hurt voter confidence in the runoffs, adding, "I can assure you that it will be a fair and honest election, that it'll be safe and it'll be dependable." Polls are open until 7 p.m. EST (2400 GMT). Some 3 million ballots were cast in early in-person and mail-in voting, mirroring a pandemic-related trend seen in November.\nDemocrats were encouraged by the early vote, including strong numbers from Black voters, seen as crucial to their chances. Republicans have historically turned out in higher numbers on Election Day. Speaking to reporters in Atlanta, Ossoff said Georgians want equal justice, economic relief, help fighting the pandemic and an end to Washington's gridlock.\n"That's the kind of change that Georgia voters have been turning out in record numbers to demand," Ossoff said. Warnock told supporters at an Atlanta event that victory was "within reach."\nPerdue and Loeffler have presented themselves as the last barrier to unrestrained liberalism in Washington. "We'll look back on this day if we don't vote and really rue the day that we turn the keys to the kingdom over to the Democrats," Perdue, whose current term technically ended on Sunday, told Fox News on Tuesday.}}
{{President-elect Joe Biden speaks about jobs at The Queen theater, Friday, Dec. 4, 2020, in Wilmington, Del. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)\nWASHINGTON, D.C. (KXAN) — On Saturday, President-elect Joe Biden called out Congress and Pres. Trump as deadlines for millions of Americans facing financial hardships loom.\nBiden took to Twitter to urge Washington lawmakers to pass some sort of relief package, saying: “If Congress and President Trump fail to act by the end of December: 12 million Americans will lose unemployment benefits. Emergency paid leave will end. The moratorium on evictions will expire. The situation is urgent. Americans need help and they need it now.”\nIf Congress and President Trump fail to act by the end of December:\n– 12 million Americans will lose unemployment benefits\n– Emergency paid leave will end\n– The moratorium on evictions will expire\nThe situation is urgent. Americans need help and they need it now. — Joe Biden (@JoeBiden) December 5, 2020\nBiden’s words come as Democrats and Republicans sit at a stalemate over coronavirus relief. Currently, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Sen. Minority Leader Chuck Schumer are backing a $908 billion bipartisan plan to approach Sen. Maj. Leader Mitch McConnell with.\nThat plan includes funding for more Paycheck Protection Program loans for small businesses, expanded free COVID-19 testing, and money for schools.\nBiden has repeatedly said that getting help to Americans will be a “day one” priority for his administration once he takes the oath of office on January 20.\nTrump has mostly remained quiet on the subject, as he has continued his effort to prevent states certifying election results and/or overturn them based on still unproven claims of voter fraud.\nEarlier on Saturday, President-elect Biden also urged Americans to continue wearing masks, keep social distancing, and limiting group sizes.\n“It’s our patriotic duty as Americans,” Biden tweeted.}}
{{As a woman scientist, I was pleased to see two articles in Sunday’s paper that give me hope for the future of science and our nation. Earyn Mc…}}
{{U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz on Wednesday objected to the counting of Arizona's electoral votes, starting a process of challenging President-elect Joe Biden's victory in the Electoral College.\nCruz stood during a joint session of the U.S. House and the U.S. Senate to register his objection alongside U.S. Rep. Paul Gosar, R-Arizona. Gosar spoke first, saying he objected to the counting of the votes. Vice President Mike Pence then asked whether the objection was in writing and signed by a senator and Cruz answered, "It is."\nThe basis of the objection was on the grounds that the votes "were not under all of the known circumstances, regularly given." Neither Cruz nor Gosar elaborated on their decision. The two chambers of Congress then recessed to their respective chambers to discuss the objection.\nThe proceeding Cruz engaged in is ceremonial and his objection is doomed to fail in both the House and the Senate. Democrats control the U.S. House, and a coalition of Republicans and Democrats in the Senate is expected to knock down his objections in that chamber as well. The state's other senator, John Cornyn, announced he would not join this effort, but a number of Texas House Republicans announced in recent days they would object.\nThe basis of these objections are allegations of widespread voter fraud in contested states. There is no credible evidence of widespread fraud in the 2020 election. President Donald Trump and many of his supporters have alleged that the election was stolen from him. Lawsuits seeking to overturn the results have failed repeatedly in the courts.\nSenate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell — a close ally of Cornyn's — took the Senate floor during the Arizona debate and delivered an uncharacteristically emotional speech opposing the effort by Cruz and his colleagues.\n"We are debating a step that has never been taken in American history, whether Congress should overrule the voters and overturn a presidential election," McConnell said. "I've served 36 years in Senate, this will be the most important vote I've ever cast."\n"Nothing before us proves illegality anywhere near the massive scale, the massive scale, that would have tipped the entire election," he added. "Nor can public doubt alone justify a radical break when the doubt itself was incited without any evidence. The Constitution gives us here in Congress a limited role. We cannot simply declare ourselves a national board of elections on steroids. The voters, the courts, and the states have all spoken. They've all spoken. If we overrule them, it would damage our republic forever. This election actually was not unusually close."}}
{{Republican Senator Mitt Romney says it's time for his party to disavow the "big lie" fueled by US President Donald Trump and his supporters that the election was fraudulent.\nYour playlist will load after this ad\nSpeaking to reporters on Capitol Hill today, the Utah Senator said that lie continues to divide the country, and he called that "a real problem."\n"As long as we continue to pretend like the lie is something other than a lie, then the nation will be divided," Romney said.\n"I do believe that it's important for us as Republicans in particular to point out that the big lie is simply that - a lie. That Joe Biden won the election, fair and square," he said.\nRomney, who was the only Republican senator to vote to convict Trump during his last impeachment trial, has not said how he will vote in the upcoming trial.}}
{{A group of over 100 Black male leaders is declaring that presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden “has” to name a Black woman as his running mate.\nIn a letter made public on Monday, the signatories warned the former vice president that “failing to select a Black woman in 2020 means you will lose the election.”\nWATERS SAYS BIDEN 'CAN'T GO HOME WITHOUT BLACK WOMAN BEING VP'\nAnd pointing to the intense scrutiny some of the running mate contenders have endured in recent weeks, the group wrote that it “disgusts us that Black women are not just being vetted in this VP process but unfairly criticized and scrutinized.”\nThe letter's co-signers – which include actors, musicians, entertainers, radio hosts, filmmakers, academics, politicians, lawyers, athletes, pastors, business leaders, restaurateurs and activists – emphasized that they “stand in solidarity” with more than 700 Black women who last week signed a letter demanding that Biden choose a Black running mate.\nAt the top of the list is rapper, record executive and entrepreneur Sean “Diddy” Combs, who’s warned Biden multiple times this spring and summer not to take the Black vote for granted.\nRight below Combs on the list is popular nationally syndicated morning radio talk show host Lenard McKelvey, who’s better known as “Charlamagne Tha God.”\nBiden sparked controversy in May in an interview with Charlamagne Tha God when the former vice president suggested that voters unsure about whether to support him or President Trump "ain't Black." Hours later, Biden expressed regret for the comments, saying “I shouldn't have been so cavalier.”\nBiden said he understood the comments sounded like he was taking the Black vote "for granted" but insisted that wasn't the case. He ran into trouble again last week, walking back comments that seemed to question diversity within the African American community.\nBIDEN EXPRESSES REMORSE OVER 'YOU AIN'T BLACK' COMMENTS\nBiden’s long had a strong relationship with Black leaders and voters. He served eight years as vice president to President Barack Obama, the nation’s first Black president. And strong support from Black voters helped Biden bounce back from initial primary defeats earlier this year to clinch the Democratic presidential nomination.\nThe letter argued that “the urgency” for Biden to name a Black woman as his running mate “has gone from something that SHOULD happen to something that HAS to happen. It disgusts us that Black women are not just being vetted in this VP process but unfairly criticized and scrutinized.”\nThe letter also posed a series of questions.\n“Was Joe Biden ever labeled 'too ambitious' because he ran for president three times? Should President Obama not have made him the VP because he had to worry about his 'loyalty' when he clearly had AMBITIONS to be president himself? Why does Senator Kamala Harris have to show remorse for questioning Biden's previous stance on integrated busing during a democratic primary debate?” it asked.\nAnd pointing to tough-on-crime measures Biden championed as a senator from Delaware during the 1980s and 1990s – laws that were later blamed for unfairly targeting Black people and other minorities – the letter asked whether Democratic Party leaders, allies or donors have “ever required Joe Biden to show remorse for the 1986 or 1988 Anti-Drug Abuse bills, which established mandatory minimum sentencing and subsequently crack-cocaine sentencing disparities, and by his own admission, led to mass incarceration?”\n“What about the 1994 Crime Bill? Let’s be clear about the kind of remorse and reckoning that matters in 2020 when the Black community is still suffering the consequences for these oppressive measures. So, Black women are the only ones required to stay in their place and to show remorse for even questioning their own oppression?” the co-signers asked.\nBiden has made fighting for civil rights and taking aim at systemic racism a central tenant of his 2020 presidential campaign. And he’s heavily criticized Trump on the issue, labeling him a “racist” president.\nBRAZILE: BIDEN WOULD BENEFIT BY NAMING BLACK WOMAN AS VP\nPolls indicate Biden holds a massive advantage over Trump among Black voters – but not as large as the margins enjoyed by Obama in 2008 and 2012 and Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton in 2016.\nTrump has his own challenges with Black voters, having repeatedly taken aim at those demonstrating this spring and summer for racial justice in the wake of George Floyd’s death at the hands of police -- and labeling the Black Lives Matter term a “symbol of hate.” The president sparked controversy again this summer by retweeting a video of an apparent Trump supporter chanting “white power.”\nBut the letter warned that “failing to select a Black woman in 2020 means you will lose the election. We don't want to choose between the lesser of two evils and we don't want to vote the devil we know versus the devil we don't because we are tired of voting for devils—period.”}}
{{AP Photo/Matt Slocum An election worker in Chester County, Pennsylvania, handling mail-in ballots on Tuesday.\nPennsylvania could be done counting its remaining mail ballots on Thursday, Secretary of State Kathy Boockvar said.\nJoe Biden has been cutting into President Donald Trump’s lead in the state as mail ballots have been counted, particularly those in the Philadelphia suburbs.\nIf Biden wins Pennsylvania, he’ll secure the Electoral College majority necessary to win the presidency, according to Insider and Decision Desk HQ projections.\nVisit Business Insider’s homepage for more stories.\nPennsylvania Secretary of State Kathy Boockvar announced that most of the state’s 550,000 outstanding ballots should be counted on Thursday.\nJoe Biden has so far secured 253 electoral votes, according to Insider and Decision Desk HQ projections. A win in Pennsylvania, a key battleground state and his birthplace, would bring him to 273 electoral votes, over the 270 needed to win the presidential race.\nPresident Donald Trump’s lead over Biden in Pennsylvania has narrowed drastically â€” to just over 114,000 votes as of Thursday, according to Decision Desk HQ â€” as election officials have tabulated and reported the results of mail-in ballots, which heavily favour Biden, particularly in the Philadelphia suburbs.\nUpdate from Pennsylvania Secretary of State, on @CNN: ~550k ballots remain to be counted\nSays she expects to have "overwhelming majority" of them counted today#ElectionDay #Election2020 — Ryan Matsumoto (@ryanmatsumoto1) November 5, 2020\nIn 2016, Trump carried the state by less than 1 point, making it a top priority for Democrats to win back in 2020.\nInsider and Decision Desk HQ have projected that Biden will win Michigan and Wisconsin, swing states that Trump also narrowly carried in 2016.\nThe three states â€” part of the “Blue Wall” â€” were considered Democratic strongholds for decades, but Hillary Clinton’s weakness among white, working-class voters there in 2016 led to them flipping to Trump.\nTrump has so far won the battlegrounds of Florida, Iowa, Ohio, and Texas, Insider and Decision Desk HQ project. Races in Arizona, Nevada, and North Carolina remain too close to call.\nBusiness Insider Emails & Alerts Site highlights each day to your inbox. Email Address Join\nFollow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram.}}
{{WASHINGTON (AP) — Democrat Joe Biden has carried Michigan and its 16 electoral votes, further dismantling Donald Trump's Rust Belt wall of support that helped deliver him the presidency four years ago.\nThe flip from red back to blue was a huge blow to Trump, whose victories in Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania in 2016 sent him to the White House. Biden also carried Wisconsin, though Pennsylvania hasn't been called yet.\nBiden's victory in Michigan pushes him to 264 Electoral College votes, six short of the 270 needed to win the White House. Trump is at 214 electoral votes. Nevada, which has six electoral votes, is among the states Democrat Hillary Clinton won in 2016 that hasn't yet been called.\nBiden's campaign had particularly focused on turning out Black voters in Detroit, who failed to show up for Democrat Hillary Clinton in the numbers that Barack Obama received during his two presidential bids.\nDespite needing to win Michigan, Trump took frequent swipes at the state's Democratic\ngovernor, Gretchen Whitmer, who was the target of an alleged kidnapping plot that was foiled by federal law enforcement. Chants of "Lock her up!" toward Whitmer echoed at Trump's rally, and he railed against the governor on Twitter for her cautious approach to the coronavirus pandemic.}}
{{Vice President-elect Kamala Harris listens as President-elect Joe Biden speaks during an event at The Queen theater in Wilmington, Del., Friday, Jan. 8, 2021, to announce key administration posts. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)\nWILMINGTON, Del. — President-elect Joe Biden says it’s up to Congress whether to pursue a second impeachment of President Donald Trump, but he expected lawmakers to be ready to move on his agenda as soon as he is inaugurated.\nBiden’s comments to reporters came after House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a Friday letter to lawmakers that House Democrats would move to impeach Trump again if he did not resign immediately. Pelosi and other lawmakers have pressured Trump to step down after Wednesday’s attack on the U.S. Capitol by a pro-Trump mob that lawmakers in both parties said was incited by Trump.\nAsked what he’d tell lawmakers about Pelosi’s push for impeachment, Biden responded, “I’d tell them that’s a decision for the Congress to make. I’m focused on my job.”\nBiden added that he would be speaking with Pelosi and Democratic leadership later Friday.}}
{{WASHINGTON (AP) — Pence defies Trump, says he can’t claim ‘unilateral authority’ to reject electoral votes that will make Biden president.}}
{{Joe Biden, the Democratic nominee for President of the United States, continued his slow but steady march on the White House Thursday, as President Donald Trump launched frantic efforts to drag out the outcome through recount demands in Wisconsin and lawsuits in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Georgia even though his path to re-election was still not closed till Thursday afternoon (late night in India).\nWhat brought Biden within striking distance was the flips projected in 3 states — Michigan, Wisconsin and Arizona — for the challenger by the Associated Press, whose tracker put the former vice-president’s tally of electoral college votes at 264, just six short of the threshold of 270 seats. He was leading a tight race in Nevada, which has six electoral college votes, and which alone could get him over the line with three larger states still in play.\nNot all news organisations had projected a winner for Arizona at the time of writing this report, and kept Biden’s tally at 253. Speaking in his home state of Delaware with vice-presidential nominee Kamala Harris by his side, Biden did not claim victory (as Trump had done earlier) but said he was confident he would win when the counting was complete. He also invoked former President Barack Obama to offer a unifying message at the end of a deeply divisive polling environment: “There will be no blue states and red states when we win — just the United States of America.”\nClick here for complete coverage on US Presidential Election 2020\nTrump was at 214, and was ahead in Pennsylvania (20), Georgia (16) and North Carolina (15), but his lead in all three was shrinking at the time of going to print as more mail-in ballots, favoured disproportionately by Democrat voters, were a large chunk of the votes still to be counted. But President Trump sought to reject these outcomes — both projections and final. “If you count the legal votes, I easily win the election! If you count the illegal and late votes, they can steal the election from us!” the Trump campaign issued a statement by the President on Thursday.\nThe President’s campaign lawyers have already filed a growing folio of lawsuits. They started with an announcement that they will be calling for a recount of votes in Wisconsin, the first of the crucial battleground states that was called for Biden, alleging “reports of irregularities”.\nThe campaign followed up shortly with an announcement of lawsuits in Michigan and Pennsylvania to halt counting till the campaign was given “meaningful access” to counting locations. And then came the lawsuit in Georgia, normally a solid Republican state, shortly after it announced new counting numbers showing a narrowing race, with Biden speedily cutting the President’s lead from about 200,000 on Wednesday to just 14,000 at the time of going to print.\nThis lawsuit claimed a Republican observer had seen 53 ballots added to counting stacks after polling closed. The Trump campaign also complained about attempts by Democrats to “steal” the elections from the president, repeating a line Trump first put out in the early hours of Wednesday when he had also sought to prematurely declare victory, which was part of a planned strategy to claim victory while he was “ahead”. He had denied it then.\nTrump supporters gathered at counting locations in Phoenix and Detroit calling for an end to counting as lawyers sought more transparency in the counting process. Dozens of them chanted “Stop the count!” at a ballot tallying centre in Detroit, as anti-Trump supporters shouted slogans calling for the votes t be counted.\nBut, even as these attempts continued, Biden appeared close to the magic number and could be home with either Pennsylvania or Georgia, on their own or with Arizona and Nevada, where he has been leading. He was picking up absentee ballots at a much higher percentage than Trump across states.\nWhile Biden’s road to the presidency still offers him several combinations of states even if the Arizona projection is reversed,for Trump, Pennsylvania is the most crucial key to unlocking a second term — the President does not have a path to 270 electoral college votes and the White House without that crucial battleground state.\nBiden made it clear when he spoke in Wilmington that “every vote must be counted”. “No one is going to take our democracy away from us. Not now. Not ever,” he said. This was in marked contrast to Trump’s premature claim of victory when he was ahead overall on the electoral map, but with millions of outstanding votes that had not been counted. On Thursday, in a tweet, he also “hereby claimed” the states of Michigan, Pennsylvania, Georgia, and North Carolina. Not everyone was on the same page; the votes continue to be counted.}}
{{The New York Post:\nLet’s be real. Goliath was never going to let David breeze through the rematch.\nThe provinces, for whom President Trump is an instrument, not an end in himself, were never going to have an easy time winning the 2020 election against the amassed might of the Democratic Party, the “Fake News” media and allied pollsters, Big Tech, woke billionaires and the celebrity class, who united to stamp out the barbarian orange emperor.\nThe “chumps” and “ugly folk,” as Joe Biden calls them, came out in their glorious millions from the American heartland on Election Day and now we will see if people power prevails, if the nationalist populist movement enabled by Donald Trump, but not defined by him, lives to fight another day against the corrupt globalists represented by the sad husk of Biden.\nIt boils down to Trump’s belief that the Democrats perpetrated widespread voter fraud in Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin and elsewhere to steal the election.\nWhile even those in his own party are urging him to lose gracefully, the president has every right to ensure electoral laws are enforced to prevent fraud.\nIn fact, he owes it to the 68 million deplorables who voted for him.\nTo that end, Trump has turned to an old ally, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, to lead a heroic legal challenge.\nIn a press conference in Philadelphia Wednesday, Giuliani laid out one clear anomaly in which, contrary to Pennsylvania law, Republican election observers were denied the right to oversee the counting of 120,000 ballots by being forced to stand 20 to 30 feet away from where they were being counted.\n“They were never able to see the ballot itself, never able to see if it was properly postmarked, properly addressed, properly signed on the outside . . . this went on for 20 hours. While all of you thought there was some kind of legitimate count going on here in Philadelphia, it was totally illegitimate.”\nRead more at The New York Post}}
{{WASHINGTON -- Defying President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence said Wednesday that he does not have the power to discard electoral votes that will make Democrat Joe Biden the next president on Jan. 20.Pence said in a statement issued minutes before he was to begin presiding over a joint session of Congress to count those votes that it was "my considered judgement that my oath to support and defend the Constitution constrains me from claiming unilateral authority to determine which electoral votes should be counted and which should not."In the days before the joint session, Trump has pressured his vice president to toss electors from battleground states that voted for Biden to overturn the will of voters in a desperate and futile bid to undo President-elect Joe Biden's victory in the November election."If Mike Pence does the right thing we win the election," Trump told thousands of supporters who rallied Wednesday on the Ellipse, just south of the White House, an hour before the count in Congress was to begin."All Vice President Pence has to do is send it back to the states to recertify and we become president and you are the happiest people," Trump said, repeating a falsehood he has been promoting leading up to the congressional session.Trump repeatedly pressured Pence to act during his more than 75-minute speech to supporters. "Mike Pence is going to have to come through for us," Trump said, "and if he doesn't, it's a sad day for our country."Shortly before the 1 p.m. start of the joint session and even as Trump continued his verbal haranguing, Pence made clear in a three-page letter that he would follow the Constitution, not the commander in chief. While Trump was speaking, Pence's motorcade carried him through a heavily-secured Washington toward the Capitol, where thousands of Trump supporters were marching.Pence has no unilateral power under the Constitution and congressional rules that govern the count. It is up to the House and Senate to voice objections, and states' electors were chosen in accordance with state law, not fraudulently.Beginning at 1 p.m., Pence began to open the certificates of the electoral votes from each state and present them to the appointed "tellers" from the House and Senate in alphabetical order. At the end of the count, Pence, seated on the House of Representatives' rostrum, has the task of announcing who has won the majority of votes for both president and vice president.Despite his largely ceremonial assignment, Pence has faced intense pressure from the president and legions of supporters who want the vice president to use the moment to overturn the will of the voters in a handful of battleground states.Pence told Trump during their weekly lunch in the West Wing on Tuesday that he did not believe he had the power to unilaterally overturn electoral votes, according to a person briefed on the one-on-one conversation. This person was not authorized to publicly discuss the private discussion, which was first reported by The New York Times, and spoke on condition of anonymity.Trump denied the report in a statement late Tuesday in which he continued to falsely assert Pence has powers he does not. But the vice president, whose office declined to discuss his plans, was not expected to deliver on Trump's request to overturn the electors, acknowledging he has no such unilateral power.Pence has spent hours with staff and the Senate parliamentarian to prepare for Wednesday's joint session, including studying the Electoral Count Act of 1887, which governs the proceedings, and relevant legal opinions.In fulfilling one of the few formal responsibilities of the vice presidency, Pence risks compromising his own political future. Pence is eyeing a run for the White House in 2024 and is banking on his years of loyalty to Trump, who could be a political kingmaker for years to come, to help him stand out in what is expected to be a crowded field.Despite claims by Trump and his allies, there was not widespread fraud in the election. This has been confirmed by a range of election officials and by William Barr, who stepped down as attorney general last month. Neither Trump nor any of the lawmakers promising to object to the count have presented credible evidence that would change the outcome.Nevertheless, more than 100 House Republicans and a dozen Senate Republicans have said they will challenge the electoral votes of at least one state. Majorities in both chambers are required to reject the will of voters, but enough Republican lawmakers have said they will join with Democrats to reject the last-ditch move by Trump's allies.}}
{{Donald Trump attended a rally for Georgia Sens. Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue on Saturday but gave them little more than lips service, instead using an almost two hour speech to bemoan his election loss to Joe Biden, vow that he would prevail in the end, and attack Georgia Governor Brian Kemp, whom he asked for help on Saturday to overturn the election (he was rebuffed).\nThe NYT reports: “Speaking for an hour and 40 minutes, the president did read a series of scripted lines about the two Republican senators, David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler, and repeatedly urged his supporters in Georgia to vote next month, even mentioning the deadlines for the mail-in ballots he has so often scorned. Yet he embedded those dutiful remarks of support in a deep thicket of conspiracy-mongering about his defeat and even aired a lengthy montage of video of clips from the conservative news outlets Newsmax and One America News Network, which also depicted a sinister plot of electoral theft.”\nA few clips:\nTrump comes right up to the cusp of admitting he lost, but then immediately walks it back pic.twitter.com/8FqOO20KGx — Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) December 6, 2020\n"They want to go into a communistic form of government" pic.twitter.com/JE4KK2EBxk December 6, 2020\nTrump can't believe he lost the election despite getting 74 million votes pic.twitter.com/hGv60at2Ca — Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) December 6, 2020\nTrump is out here delusionally claiming that he won Georgia. It's completely nuts. pic.twitter.com/MxL8u3uSDG — Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) December 6, 2020\n"If we do a second term, which I hope we do" pic.twitter.com/JBWPxcgIln — Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) December 6, 2020\nKelly Loeffler climbs onto the stage amid "stop the steal!" chants, which signifies how well this rally is going pic.twitter.com/nZGHo1jCFc — Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) December 6, 2020\nLoeffler can barely squeeze tepid applause out of the crowd. Perdue then starts talking but is drown out by "fight for Trump!" chants pic.twitter.com/OKp8riVE9r — Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) December 6, 2020\nIn related news, The Washington Post reports: “Hours before he was scheduled to hold a rally in Georgia on behalf of the state’s two GOP senators, Trump pressed Kemp to call a special session of the state legislature for lawmakers to override the results and appoint electors who would back the president at the electoral college, according to two people familiar with the conversation, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe the private call. Trump also asked the governor to demand an audit of signatures on mail ballots, something Kemp has previously noted he has no power to do. Kemp declined the president’s entreaty, according to the people.”}}
{{Share the News\nAmericans headed to the polls on Tuesday (November 3) to decide whether incumbent Donald Trump or challenger Joe Biden will be elected president, after a tumultuous four years under the businessman-turned-politician that left the country as deeply polarized as at any time in its recent history.\nThe most closely watched results was estimated to trickle in after 7 p.m. Eastern Standard Time when polls close in states such as Georgia, though estimated that definitive national results could take days if the contest is tight.\nBiden, the Democratic candidate and a career politician, who’s had a strong and consistent lead in national polls, only needs 6 more electoral votes to win. Could he be America’s next president?\nExpert say, it may be days before the result is known, especially if legal challenges focused on postal ballots are accepted in the event of a tight race. There is also fear about possible unrest. Several cities are boarding up buildings in anticipation of possible protests, including around the White House and in New York City.\nSource: Reuters/-AsiaVision Network}}
{{When people think of a president, there are many qualities that, a long time ago, most folks would assume any president would always possess. Character, intellect, a natural charm. Barring a handful, the aforementioned traits generally could be found amongst most presidents in abundance.\nBoy, do times change.\nOne thing, though, is sub consciously most americans seem to expect that their president have a thick enough head of hair to be considered presidential.\nLaugh, but it's true.\nGoing back a half century, ever since television, U.S presidents all have had a full head of hair; at least up front (with Johnson and Ford beginning to shed late in their presidency). Apparently, Americans instinctively prefer a president with an impressive mane.\nBut what if in addition to lacking the many qualities one would assume prerequisite in a president" what if Donald Trump has also gotten away with misrepresenting his mane?\nEvidence suggests there's a strong possibility.\nAside from images that occasionally give away the open secret, there supposedly is testimony from sources incredibly close to Donald, spilling the beans on his hair routine.\nIn Author Michael Wolff's book Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House, Wolff wrote Trump's hair is the result of scalp reduction surgery and careful styling held in place by strong hairspray.\nWolff claimed Trump's daughter, Ivanka, often mocks her dad's mop when she is speaking to friends.\n"She often described the mechanics behind it to friends: an absolutely clean pate a contained island after scalp-reduction surgery surrounded by a furry circle of hair around the sides and front, from which all ends are drawn up to meet in the centre and then swept back and secured by a stiffening spray."\nSuch revelation" could it be the sign of a daughter's love?\nAnother source that's divulged the secret of Donald's hair is Dr. Harold Bornstein, who treated the property tycoon for 36 years.\nWhen Donald was running in 2016, Bornstein revealed his famous patient takes a small dose of finasteride every day.\nThe New York-based doctor said that he also takes the drug as well to maintain his flowing shoulder length hair.\nHe said: "He (Trump) has all his hair. I have all my hair."\nBornstein was also, by the way, the son of the Doctor who gave a teenaged Donald a medical diagnosis of bone spurs around Vietnam.\nAnother source behind Trump's hair secret is his barber of twenty years, Adrian Wood. When asked to describe the process of coifing the Donald's hair during an interview, Wood stated, 'He's very specific. He'll say 'Cut here. Cut here. Cut here'. And then you would start trimming and he would say, 'Oh, that's enough there.'\nWood went on, 'We only cut around the edge.' Then, using both hands to create a circular shape meant to represent the Donald's crown section, he continued, 'We never cut around this part of his head. This part of his head, he takes care of himself.'\nAsked to be more specific about the bald spot, Wood stated, 'In order to cover that up, you really have to know what you're doing.' A photo of the Donald from the first season of the Apprentice still hung on Wood's wall.\nAs extra, here is the video of Wood discussing the management of Trump's scalp.\nPresident Trump's Former Barber on What It Was Like to Cut His Hair Adrian Wood cut President Trump's hair for more than 20 years, which has time and time again been the subject of headlines and fascination. After Trump's ...\n(Image by YouTube, Channel: Inside Edition) Details DMCA\nNow with the 2020 election having pretty much been concluded with a win for Joe Biden, a question remains. Who won the contest within the contest; ie, whos hair was more presidential? Now to be honest, on the face of it, Joe Biden would appear to have lost.\nUp front, what Joe seems to have is a protrusion of strands it would appear he brushes forward to create the appearance of a line. And in the back, really, there isn't much at all either. So again, on the face of things, Trump would appear to have won.\nOnly, deep down inside, everyone knows he probably didn't. Maybe, you the reader, might be follicaly challenged yourself, or your spouse, father, child. Maybe, at a personal level, you're aware of the sting this challenge possesses. So you've given Donald a pass. The nation, in fact.\nBut the truth is, in the contest of Presidential manes, Donald Trump probably cheated, too.\n[Update: it's recently come to the Author's attention that allegations have surfaced concerning Joe Biden and Hair plugs. Alas, the possibility exists both men have forfeited victory]}}
{{Watching the results come in for Georgia last evening seems to be setting the stage for a tough couple of years. Warnock is projected to defeat Loeffler in Georgia Senate runoff. The Ossoff versus Perdue is race too close to call, but in Ossoff’s favor at the moment. The electoral college vote will likely have some silly drama, but will ultimately confirm November’s election of Democrat Joe Biden.\nTo be honest, it’s looking a little rough for the home team at a national level.\nStatewide, it’s a far rosier view, with Senator Rounds, Congressman Johnson & Commissioner Gary Hanson being sworn in already, and next week we will see the most Republican legislature in my adult lifetime.\nWe won here. We won in a pronounced manner. For Republicans in South Dakota, the important thing to do is to take our disappointment over the national results this past election, and channel them into productive action in 2022. We need to get to work to re-elect Senator John Thune, Congressman Dusty Johnson, and Governor Kristi Noem. We need to return a strong leadership contingent to the constitutional offices & the Public Utilities Commission.\nYes, there are differences and heartache over the election. Some people are grousing a lot on facebook. And it might be tempting to find someone to blame, nevermind the fact we did the job we needed to do in 2020 in South Dakota.\nI can’t help but notice that the same people grousing and calling to do things such as primary John Thune or Dusty Johnson this year are some of the same who called for it in previous years.\nEr..they did see how strongly Dusty Johnson won in the 2020 primary, didn’t they? And in the case of the primary against Dusty this last election, it showed one of the problems with listening to the chattering complainers on facebook and elsewhere. They’re not organized. They can’t raise money, they’re ineffective in running a campaign and winning votes.\nIf you look back to when it comes to the rubber hitting the road, when things might have been getting a little tight, and forward momentum has needed to happen for the SDGOP and its candidates, it has been people such as Senator John Thune who have stepped up and made sure boots are on the ground in South Dakota and elsewhere for GOP candidates. And Congressman Dusty Johnson has continued in that tradition.\nThat’s the strongest team that Republicans can put on the field.\nAfter today, the dust will start to settle on 2020. So, it’s time to get to work on 2022 and do our best to prepare ourselves to win elections.}}
{{In this Jan. 6, 2021, photo, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Ky., walks from the Senate floor to his office on Capitol Hill in Washington. Now that the House has impeached President Donald Trump for the second time, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi must figure out the best strategy for arguing the case before the Senate. Senate rules say the trial must start soon after the chamber receives the article of impeachment, which cites “incitement of insurrection” after an angry mob of Trump’s supporters invaded the Capitol last week. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta)\nWASHINGTON (AP) — Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell opened the Senate on Tuesday saying the pro-Trump mob that stormed the Capitol was “fed lies” by the president and others in the deadly riot to overturn Democrat Joe Biden election.\nMcConnell’s remarks are his most severe and public rebuke of outgoing President Donald Trump. The Republican leader vowed a “safe and successful” inauguration of Biden on Wednesday at the Capitol, which is under extremely tight security.\n“The mob was fed lies,” McConnell said. “They were provoked by the president and other powerful people, and they tried to use fear and violence to stop a specific proceeding of branch of the federal government.”\nMcConnell said after Biden’s inauguration on the Capitol’s West Front — what he noted former President George H.W. Bush has called “democracy’s front porch” — “We’ll move forward.”\nTrump’s last full day in office Tuesday is also senators’ first day back since the deadly Capitol siege, an unparalleled time of transition as the Senate presses ahead to his impeachment trial and starts confirmation hearings on President-elect Joe Biden’s Cabinet.\nFILE – In this Jan. 6, 2021, file photo, Trump supporters gather outside the Capitol in Washington. As rioters converged on the U.S. Capitol building, the grounds normally hailed as the seat of American democracy became a melting pot of extremist groups. Militia members, white supremacists, paramilitary organizations and fervent supporters of outgoing President Donald Trump stood shoulder to shoulder, unified in rage. Experts say years of increasing partisanship and a growing fascination of paramilitary groups combined with the coronavirus pandemic to create a conveyor belt of radicalization. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta, File)\nMultiple media outlets have identified Jenny Cudd as one of the rioters involved in the occupation of the Capitol on Wednesday. (Photo by SAUL LOEB / AFP) (Photo by SAUL LOEB/AFP via Getty Images)\nDemonstrators break TV equipment outside the the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, in Washington. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana)\nPro-Trump rioters wave the Confederate flag and climb on a statue at the US Capitol, January 7, 2021 (Nexstar)\nSupporters of President Donald Trump and antifa supporters clashed with Washington state police on the state Capitol Campus in Olympia, Wash., Saturday, Dec. 12, 2020. Police in Olympia declared a riot early Saturday afternoon and arrested at least one person as groups with different points of view held simultaneous protests. (The Olympian via AP)\nJacob Anthony Chansley, who also goes by the name Jake Angeli was charged with entering a restricted building without lawful authority, violent entry and disorderly conduct. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta, File)\nFILE In this Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, file photo, supporters listen as President Donald Trump speaks as a Confederate-themed and other flags flutter in the wind during a rally in Washington. War-like imagery has begun to take hold in mainstream Republican political circles in the wake of the deadly attack on the U.S. Capitol, with some elected officials and party leaders rejecting calls to tone down their rhetoric contemplating a second civil war. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci, File)\nFILE – In this Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, file photo, violent protesters, loyal to President Donald Trump, storm the Capitol, in Washington. Federal prosecutors say a retired Air Force officer who was part of the mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol was arrested Sunday, Jan. 10, 2021, in Texas. (AP Photo/John Minchillo, File)\nFILE – In this Jan. 6, 2021, file photo, supporters of President Donald Trump climb the west wall of the the U.S. Capitol in Washington. Although pro-democracy and human rights activists around the globe were stunned to see a mob storm the Capitol, they say they were heartened and inspired because the system ultimately prevailed. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana File)\nThree new Democratic senators-elect are set to be sworn into office Wednesday shortly after Biden’s inauguration at the Capitol, which is under extreme security since the bloody pro-Trump riot. The new senators’ arrival will give the Democrats the most slim majority, a 50-50 divided Senate chamber, with the new vice president, Kamala Harris, swearing them in and serving as an eventual tie-breaking vote.\nSenate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer are set to confer Tuesday about the arrangements ahead, according to a person familiar with the planning and granted anonymity to discuss it.\nThe start of the new session of Congress will force senators to come to terms with the post-Trump era, a transfer of power like almost none other in the nation’s history. Senators are returning to a Capitol shattered from the riot, but also a Senate ground to a halt by the lawmakers’ own extreme partisanship.\nRepublican senators, in particular, face a daunting choice of whether to convict Trump of inciting the insurrection, the first impeachment trial of a president no longer in office, in a break with the defeated president who continues to hold great sway over the party but whose future is uncertain. Senators are also being asked to start confirming Biden’s Cabinet nominees and consider passage of a sweeping new $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief bill.\nIn opening remarks at his confirmation hearing, Biden’s nominee for secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Alejandro Mayorkas, vowed to get to the bottom of the “horrifying” attack on the Capitol.\nMayorkas told the Senate Homeland Security Committee that if confirmed he would do everything possible to ensure “the desecration of the building that stands as one of the three pillars of our democracy, and the terror felt by you, your colleagues, staff, and everyone present, will not happen again.”\nFive of Biden’s nominees are set for hearings Tuesday as the Senate prepares for swift confirmation of some as soon as the president-elect takes office, as is often done on Inauguration Day, particularly for the White House’s national security team.\nBiden wants the Senate to toggle between confirming his nominees, considering COVID relief and holding Trump accountable with the impeachment trial, a tall order for an institution that typically runs more slowly and with bitter confrontations.\nTrump’s impeachment is forcing Republican senators to re-evaluate their relationship with the outgoing president who is charged with inciting a mob of supporters to storm the Capitol as Congress was counting the Electoral College votes to confirm Biden’s election. A protester died during the riot and a police officer died later of injuries; three other people involved died of medical emergencies.\nThe House impeached Trump last week on a sole charge, incitement of insurrection, making him the only president to be twice impeached. He had been impeached in 2019 over relations with Ukraine and was acquitted in 2020 by the Senate.\nSchumer, who is poised to become the majority leader, and McConnell are set to meet Tuesday to discuss the power-sharing agreement and schedule ahead — for Trump’s trial, confirming Biden’s nominees and consideration of the incoming president’s $1.9 trillion COVID relief package.\nThree Democratic senators, Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff of Georgia, and Alex Padilla of California, are to be sworn into office Wednesday, according to the person granted anonymity to discuss planning.\nWarnock and Ossoff defeated Republican incumbents in this month’s runoff elections. Georgia’s secretary of state is expected to certify the election results Tuesday. Padilla was tapped by California’s governor to fill the remainder of Harris’ Senate term.\nThe Senate leaders also must negotiate a power-sharing agreement for the Senate that was last split so narrowly nearly 20 years ago, as they divvy up committee assignments and other resources.}}
{{(NewsNation Now) — President Donald Trump and Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden are scheduled to hold multiple events across states on Sunday with less than two days left in the presidential race.\nTrump is expected to hold five rallies in five states Sunday. The president will be in Michigan, Iowa, North Carolina, Georgia and Florida on Sunday alone. He is expected hold seven more rallies on Monday to close out the final full day of the campaign.\nBiden is expected to campaign in Philadelphia on Sunday holding three events across the state. He is expected to stay in Pennsylvania through Election Day.\nMore than 92 million Americans have cast ballots in the U.S. presidential election continuing at a record pace, according to a tally on Sunday from the U.S. Elections Project at the University of Florida. This election is expected to have the highest participation rate in over a century.\nNewsNation expects to livestream Trump’s event in Macomb County, Michigan at 10:00 a.m. (ET) and Biden’s event in Pennsylvania at 3 p.m. (ET).\nNewsNation will have a recap of all the campaign events Sunday night at 8/7c. Use the WGN America channel finder to tune in.}}
{{Counting in the US presidential election continued on Wednesday night, amid signs that Democratic candidate Joe Biden was edging towards victory and as Donald Trump launched legal proceedings in at least three states.\nAfter a tense 24 hours that saw the race come down to tight contests in a handful of swing states, the election was still too close to call.\nMr Trump, seeking a second term in the White House, clocked up early victories in states including Florida, Ohio and Texas shortly after polls closed on Tuesday night. But Mr Biden outperformed the US president as absentee ballots began to be counted and focus turned to the three rust belt states that delivered victory for Mr Trump in 2016.\nIn a significant win for the Democratic candidate, Associated Press called the state of Wisconsin for Mr Biden. But the Trump campaign immediately filed a request for a recount in the state. It also filed a flurry of lawsuits – in Pennsylvania, Michigan and later Georgia, seeking to pause the vote count in those key battleground states.\nSeveral networks also projected a win for Mr Biden in Michigan.\nAs counting looked set to continue for a third day, Mr Biden had significantly increased his possible routes to the 270 electoral college votes needed to win the election, while Mr Trump’s path to victory had narrowed. However, in tweets on Wednesday night, Mr Trump “claimed” the states of Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Georgia and Michigan.\n‘We will be the winners’\nSpeaking in Delaware on Wednesday night, Mr Biden stopped short of declaring victory, but he predicted he would win the race once all the votes were counted. “I’m not here to declare that we’ve won, but I am here to declare that, when the vote is completed, we will be the winners.”\nNoting the record number of Americans who voted, he said that he and running mate Kamala Harris were “on track to win more votes of any ticket in the history of this country”. He continued: “Every vote must be counted. No one is going to take our democracy away from us – not now, not ever.”\nMr Biden was speaking at the end of a day that began with Mr Trump declaring a premature victory, telling supporters in the White House in the early hours of Wednesday he had “already” won the race.\n“We will win this and, as far as I’m concerned, we already have won it,” he said, pledging to go to the US supreme court to stop the vote count. “We want all voting to stop. We don’t want them to find any ballots at four o’clock in the morning and add them to the list.”\nHe subsequently claimed, without evidence, in a series of tweets that his lead in states had “started to magically disappear as surprise ballot dumps were counted”. Some of his tweets were labelled by Twitter as possible misinformation.\nLegal wranglings\nMr Trump’s campaign had gone on the offensive on Wednesday, claiming that he had “won” Pennsylvania. Trump campaign adviser Jason Miller also criticised networks for calling the state of Arizona as a win for Mr Biden, claiming that Mr Trump would win the state by Friday. “By the end of this week it will be clear to the entire nation that president Trump and vice-president Mike Pence will be re-elected for another four years,” he said.\nAs the US faced the prospect of protracted legal wranglings over the outcome of the election, there were isolated scenes of protests. In Philadelphia, thousands of people gathered at Independence Hall, the birthplace of the constitution, to demand that every vote be counted in the election. In Detroit, Michigan, there were tense encounters in the main convention hall where votes were being processed after Trump-supporting self-styled “election observers” entered the building.\nThough Mr Biden looked on track to win the 270 electoral college votes needed to clinch the election, it was a disappointing night for Democrats in congressional races. House of Representatives speaker Nancy Pelosi looked set to see the party’s majority in the chamber diminish as several members lost their seats, while Democrats failed to flip several Senate seats they had targeted, making the prospect of a Democrat-controlled Senate unlikely.\nSimilarly, Tuesday’s election did not deliver the repudiation of Mr Trump that many Democrats had hoped for. Instead, the president delivered a performance that, as in 2016, exceeded opinion poll projections.}}
{{Close Get email notifications on {{subject}} daily!\nYour notification has been saved.\nThere was a problem saving your notification.\n{{description}}\nEmail notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.}}
{{We have to get rid of Trump\nIn the next three months, a dozen states will determine whether Donald Trump wins another four years as president. Those swing states should be central to the work of progressives who are determined to prevent that outcome.\nWith so much at stake, we can’t afford the luxury of devoting time and energy to endless arguments about whether progressives should vote for Joe Biden if they live in California or New York, or Alabama or Alaska, or other states where the electoral votes are sure to all go to Biden or Trump.\nWhat will matter are the swing states, generally understood this time around to include Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Iowa, Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas and Wisconsin. (Also in play are “swing districts” in two states where the statewide winning candidate doesn’t automatically get all of the state’s electoral votes: Maine’s second congressional district and Nebraska’s second congressional district.)\nThere’s no point -- or honesty -- in pretending that Biden is a decent guy whose public service has overflowed with compassion. Whether provided by the New York Times days ago or The Nation last year, the grim evidence of Biden’s callous political career is profuse.\nDuring the primary campaign, the organization where I’m national director, RootsAction.org, supported Bernie Sanders and widely distributed documentation of Biden’s decades-long record of serving corporate greed, racial injustice and the military-industrial complex. I’ve denounced Biden’s political record in one article after another after another after another after another after another after another .\nBut the choice ahead, Trump or Biden, is painfully real. Magical thinking has its literary value, but in politics it’s delusional and dangerous to evade the realities of binary choices when they arise. All too often, discussion of voting can fall into a kind of self-absorption that focuses on a voter’s emotions about voting rather than on the impacts of election results on other people.\n“It doesn't matter whether you like Biden or not, that's your personal feelings, irrelevant, nobody cares about that,” Noam Chomsky said in a just-released video . “What they care about is what happens to the world. We have to get rid of Trump, keep pressure on Biden, just as Sanders and associates have been doing.”\nChomsky added: “Politics is activism, not taking five minutes to push a button. Look what's happening in the streets of the country. One of the greatest social movements that has ever developed, led by Black Lives Matter. Take Sunrise Movement, managed to put the Green New Deal on the legislative agenda. This generation is going to decide whether organized human society can survive. And the crucial part of this decision is to get rid of the major barrier to survival, which happens to be in the White House. Get rid of Trump, then we have opportunities.”\nMy colleague Jeff Cohen, who co-founded RootsAction, told Common Dreams that the “ Vote Trump Out” initiative that RootsAction launched with the Chomsky video is “a two-step campaign: First, vote Trump out. Then challenge Biden from day one. . . It's easier to persuade ‘swing voters on the left’ who live in swing states to vote for Biden despite their hesitancy if they know we're serious about step two.”\nLike it or not, the imperative of defeating Trump is directly in front of us. To make a progressive future possible, beating Trump is absolutely necessary while very far from sufficient. To organize against a government headed by Trump is to push against a thick stone wall. To organize against a government headed by Biden holds out the real potential of progressive breakthroughs.\n______________________________\nNorman Solomon is co-founder and national director of RootsAction.org. He is a Bernie Sanders delegate from California to the 2020 Democratic National Convention. Solomon is the author of a dozen books including “War Made Easy: How Presidents and Pundits Keep Spinning Us to Death.”}}
{{Newly seated Iowa 2nd District U.S. Rep. Mariannette Miller-Meeks joined other House GOP colleagues Tuesday calling for certification of Democrat Joe Biden's Electoral College victory ahead of Wednesday’s joint session of Congress, while breaking with others in her party.\nAt least 12 senators and more than 100 House members allied with President Donald Trump have pledged to challenge the results from several battleground states, citing Trump’s repeated, baseless charges of widespread fraud. They say they will officially object to the results, forcing votes in the Republican-run Senate and the Democratic-controlled House that are expected to fail.\nThe Electoral College gave President-elect Biden 306 votes to Trump's 232.\nWhile having "serious concerns about how elections were conducted in some states" and "suspicions about the integrity of the votes cast in several states," Miller-Meeks in a statement said: "To me the text of the Constitution is clear: states select electors, Congress does not."}}
{{By Arul Louis\nNew York, Jan 6 : The US Congress has launched the final stage of the confirmation of Joe Biden as the next President and Kamala Harris as the Vice President while President Donald Trump vowed he would “never concede” and his supporters in Congress prepared to challenge the electoral college votes.\nBefore the Congress met on Wednesday, Trump addressed a rally of his supporters in Washington. “This year, they rigged an election. They rigged it like they’ve never rigged an election before,” he told his supporters heightening tensions and setting the stage for the challenges inside Congress.\nWashington has activated the National Guard to help maintain law and order while many businesses have put wooden boards on their windows in case there is violence from the supporters and opponents of Trump who have massed.\nVice President Mike Pence is presiding over the joint session of Congress called to count the votes of the electoral college which elected Biden and Harris last month and approve the tally to ensure the transfer of power on January 20.\nPence has turned down Trump’s requests to block the certifying of the electoral college’s votes, saying in a statement before the session that he did not have the constitutional authority for it.\nTrump and his supporters have failed in over 50 cases they brought in courts at various levels alleging electoral fraud and they view this as the last chance to question the legitimacy of the election.\nThe challenges from Trump’s supporters are only meant to be symbolic and disruptive because the Democrats have a majority in the House of Representatives and although for now the Republicans have a majority in the Senate, the party’s leaders in the body have refused to back Trump’s supporters.\nAfter the votes by the different states are tallied at the joint session and objections are made, the House and Senate will meet separately discuss the objections.\nWhile the time allotted for the discussions is two hours in the House, the process could drag on if that time is allowed for each of the states for which objections have been made. The Senate can set its own time limits and formats for dealing with the objections.\nThe joint session will reconvene after the two legislative bodies finish dealing with the objections to complete the process of certifying the electoral college votes.\nThe US presidential elections are conducted indirectly with the voters electing members of the electoral college who would vote for president.\nBiden won 306 electoral college votes, in addition to getting 81.2 million popular votes to Trump’s 232 electoral college votes and 74.2 million popular votes.\nTrump won the 2016 election by getting a majority in the electoral college, where the votes allocated to proportionately to states, despite Hillary Clinton getting more popular votes.\nThe challenge to election is from a small group of Republican members of Congress led by Republican Senator Ted Cruz.\nDisclaimer: This story is auto-generated from IANS service.}}
{{Trump’s odds of winning have surged in the past 48 hours, according to this data scientist’s model}}
{{In the early hours of January 7, members of Congress have certified the electoral college votes cast for Joe Biden confirming his victory as U.S. president. This news comes after an armed mob of Trump supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol on January 6, in an attempt to halt the counting of electoral votes.\nPresident Trump has acknowledged Biden’s win, though he did not use either of his Twitter channels to do so. “Even though I totally disagree with the outcome of the election, and the facts bear me out, nevertheless there will be an orderly transition on January 20th,” he said.\nWASHINGTON, DC – JANUARY 06: Protesters interact with Capitol Police inside the U.S. Capitol Building on January 06, 2021 in Washington, DC. Congress held a joint session today to ratify President-elect Joe Biden’s 306-232 Electoral College win over President Donald Trump. A group of Republican senators said they would reject the Electoral College votes of several states unless Congress appointed a commission to audit the election results. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)\nOverturned furniture and broken glass litter a hallway of the US Capitol in Washington, DC, on January 7, 2021, one day after supporters of outgoing President Donald Trump stormed the building. (Photo by NICHOLAS KAMM / AFP) (Photo by NICHOLAS KAMM/AFP via Getty Images)\nIt has been reported that the Capitol building is now secure following yesterday’s invasion, although four people were killed, including Ashli Babbitt, who was shot by Capitol police. Before the Capitol was attacked, several Republican Senators planned to object the results following months of Trump claiming via video, lawsuit and written statement that the election results were fraudulent. After lawmakers reconvened on the night of January 6, GOP senators challenged the votes cast in Pennsylvania and Arizona, to no avail.\nIn a formal statement released on January 6, Speaker Pelosi wrote, “Today, a shameful assault was made on our democracy. It was anointed at the highest level of government. It cannot, however, deter us from our responsibility to validate the election of Joe Biden.”\nIn the midst of the invasion, President-elect Biden spoke about the incident in Delaware. Though he had planned to speak about the economy, he used to opportunity to condemn the people behind the attack. “Our democracy is under an unprecedented assault unlike anything we’ve seen in modern times,” he said. The last time the Capitol building had been overtaken was over 200 years ago, in 1812.\nThe President-elect continued and admonished Trump, saying, “At their best, the words of a president can inspire–at their worst, they can incite.” This was a reference to the impact of a President’s speech, whether through physical or digital means, and how he believes that the past few months have been used to spread untruths that led to violence.\nRepublican lawmakers, including Sen. Mitt Romney, made statements condemning the riots and Trump as well. “We gather due to a selfish man’s injured pride and the outrage of supporters who he has deliberately misinformed for the past two months and stirred to action this very morning,” Romney said.\nAfter the restoration of order, the electoral college results reflected that Trump had gotten 232 electoral votes and Biden received 306. This also means Kamala Harris will officially be the first woman, the first South Asian woman and the first Black woman to serve as the vice president.}}
{{WASHINGTON, D.C. (KXAN) — Only 25 congressional Republicans out of 222 have acknowledged President-elect Joe Biden’s victory in the 2020 Presidential Election, a new Washington Post survey finds.\nAccording to the survey, despite Biden’s lead of over 7 million popular votes and 74 electoral votes, 90% of GOP House and Senate members have yet to say who the winner is.\nAdditionally, two members say Pres. Donald Trump is the winner of the election.\nFor the survey, WaPo contacted aides from all Republicans to ask: 1) Who won the election? 2) Do you support or oppose Trump’s continuing efforts to claim victory? 3) If Biden wins the Electoral College, will you accept him as the legitimately elected president?\nOver 70% did not respond at all.\nAs recently as Friday, Pres. Trump advanced still unproven claims of voter fraud in the election, retweeting an OAN video alleging a conspiracy theory that the United States Postal Service tampered with hundreds of thousands of ballots. The video is flagged as “disputed” by Twitter.\nSince Biden was projected as the winner, the Trump campaign and some supporters attempted to block states certification of the results through several lawsuits, the majority of which have been thrown out of court.\nThe Electoral College is set to meet on Dec. 14 and Congress will count those votes on Jan. 6.}}
{{McConnell said Trump ‘fed lies’ to mob about Biden election\nFILE - In this Dec. 30, 2020, file photo Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Ky., walks to the Senate floor on Capitol Hill in Washington. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh, File)\nWASHINGTON (AP) — Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell opened the Senate on Tuesday saying the pro-Trump mob that stormed the Capitol was “fed lies” by the president and others in the deadly riot to overturn Democrat Joe Biden’s election.\nMcConnell’s remarks are his most severe and public rebuke of outgoing President Donald Trump. The Republican leader vowed a “safe and successful” inauguration of Biden on Wednesday at the Capitol, which is under extremely tight security.\n“The mob was fed lies,” McConnell said. “They were provoked by the president and other powerful people, and they tried to use fear and violence to stop a specific proceeding of the first branch of the federal government which they did not like.”\nMcConnell said after Biden’s inauguration on the Capitol’s West Front — what he noted former President George H.W. Bush has called “democracy’s front porch” — “We’ll move forward.”\nTrump’s last full day in office Tuesday is also senators’ first day back since the deadly Capitol siege, an unparalleled time of transition as the Senate presses ahead to his impeachment trial and starts confirmation hearings on President-elect Joe Biden’s Cabinet.\nTrending Headlines\nThree new Democratic senators-elect are set to be sworn into office Wednesday shortly after Biden’s inauguration at the Capitol, which is under extreme security since the bloody pro-Trump riot. The new senators’ arrival will give the Democrats the most slim majority, a 50-50 divided Senate chamber, with the new vice president, Kamala Harris, swearing them in and serving as an eventual tie-breaking vote.\nSenate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer are set to confer Tuesday about the arrangements ahead, according to a person familiar with the planning and granted anonymity to discuss it.\nThe start of the new session of Congress will force senators to come to terms with the post-Trump era, a transfer of power like almost none other in the nation’s history. Senators are returning to a Capitol shattered from the riot, but also a Senate ground to a halt by the lawmakers’ own extreme partisanship.\nRepublican senators, in particular, face a daunting choice of whether to convict Trump of inciting the insurrection, the first impeachment trial of a president no longer in office, in a break with the defeated president who continues to hold great sway over the party but whose future is uncertain. Senators are also being asked to start confirming Biden’s Cabinet nominees and consider passage of a sweeping new $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief bill.\nIn opening remarks at his confirmation hearing, Biden’s nominee for secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Alejandro Mayorkas, vowed to get to the bottom of the “horrifying” attack on the Capitol.\nMayorkas told the Senate Homeland Security Committee that if confirmed he would do everything possible to ensure “the desecration of the building that stands as one of the three pillars of our democracy, and the terror felt by you, your colleagues, staff, and everyone present, will not happen again.”\nFive of Biden’s nominees are set for hearings Tuesday as the Senate prepares for swift confirmation of some as soon as the president-elect takes office, as is often done on Inauguration Day, particularly for the White House’s national security team.\nBiden wants the Senate to toggle between confirming his nominees, considering COVID relief and holding Trump accountable with the impeachment trial, a tall order for an institution that typically runs more slowly and with bitter confrontations.\nTrump’s impeachment is forcing Republican senators to re-evaluate their relationship with the outgoing president who is charged with inciting a mob of supporters to storm the Capitol as Congress was counting the Electoral College votes to confirm Biden’s election. A protester died during the riot and a police officer died later of injuries; three other people involved died of medical emergencies.\nThe House impeached Trump last week on a sole charge, incitement of insurrection, making him the only president to be twice impeached. He had been impeached in 2019 over relations with Ukraine and was acquitted in 2020 by the Senate.\nSchumer, who is poised to become the majority leader, and McConnell are set to meet Tuesday to discuss the power-sharing agreement and schedule ahead — for Trump’s trial, confirming Biden’s nominees and consideration of the incoming president’s $1.9 trillion COVID relief package.\nThree Democratic senators, Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff of Georgia, and Alex Padilla of California, are to be sworn into office Wednesday, according to the person granted anonymity to discuss planning.\nWarnock and Ossoff defeated Republican incumbents in this month’s runoff elections. Georgia’s secretary of state is expected to certify the election results Tuesday. Padilla was tapped by California’s governor to fill the remainder of Harris’ Senate term.\nThe Senate leaders also must negotiate a power-sharing agreement for the Senate that was last split so narrowly nearly 20 years ago, as they divvy up committee assignments and other resources.}}
