{{A couple of factors could incentivize the Ottawa Senators to trade down from the 28th-overall position.\nMaking an unexpected run to the East final meant sliding down the first-round ladder. And while you can find a good player at No. 28 (see below), it’s not like Ottawa is holding a highly coveted position. The Sens also have just four total selections in the entire 2017 derby, so moving their best one in favour of adding a couple more in, say, the second and third rounds could make sense.\nOttawa has actually traded a pair of recent first-rounders in the past 12 months (2013 selection Curtis Lazar is now in Calgary, while 2011 pick Mika Zibanejad is with the Rangers), perhaps indicating things haven’t always gone according to plan at the draft table. That said, the Senators look as though they killed it in 2015 when they used two first-round picks on Thomas Chabot and Colin White.\n2017 draft picks\n28\n47 (from CGY)\n121\n183\nTop 3 prospects currently in the system\nThomas Chabot, D – The world junior MVP could be a factor on Ottawa’s blue-line next fall.\nColin White, C – Solid two-way centre may have a one-year AHL apprenticeship, but he’s going to move the needle for Sens down the road.\nLogan Brown, C – Lanky six-foot-six pivot will likely play one more season of major junior.\nThe Hockey PDOcast The Hockey PDOcast with Dimitri Filipovic provides entertaining and thoughtful dialogue about the game of hockey with an analytical edge. Not as nerdy as it sounds.\nTwo players who may be available in Round 1\nAleksi Heponiemi, C, Swift Current (WHL) – Slick, playmaking Finn had 86 points in 72 games as a ‘Dub’ rookie.\nJake Oettinger, G, Boston University (NCAA) – Six-foot-four, 1998-born goalie could be long-term replacement plan for 36-year-old Craig Anderson.\nBest 28th overall picks in NHL history\nCorey Perry (Anaheim, 2003) – Member of the Triple Gold club, 2010-11 league MVP and leading goal-scorer. One of the best sandpaper and skill mixes ever seen.\nMike Richter (New York Rangers, 1985) – Backstopped the Rangers to their drought-busting 1994 Cup championship and was monumental in groundbreaking Team USA win at the 1996 World Cup.\nJustin Williams (Philadelphia, 2000) – Mr. Game 7 is singlehandedly trying to keep the idea of clutch alive. A three-time Cup winner with the Canes and Kings.\nOther notable picks at 28th overall\n• Guy Chouinard, Atlanta Flames, 1974\n• Matt Niskanen, Dallas, 2005\n• Nick Foligno, Ottawa, 2006\n• Charlie Coyle, San Jose, 2010\nTape II Tape Ryan Dixon and Rory Boylen go deep on pucks with a mix of facts and fun, leaning on a varied group of hockey voices to give their take on the country’s most beloved game.\nWorst 28th overall picks in NHL history\nBrad Gassoff (Vancouver, 1975) – Yes, Gassoff played 122 more NHL games than some other 28th picks, but the next selection was Danny Gare to Buffalo and he netted 354 goals in a 13-season career. Whoops!\nNick Petrecki (San Jose, 2007) – Played one game on defence for the Sharks.\nBrad DeFauw (Carolina Hurricanes, 1997) – With their second pick as the Hurricanes, the old Hartford Whalers organization drafted a big left-winger who just couldn’t score.\nHistory of picking 28th overall\nNick Foligno, LW (2006) – Fair to say the Sens are one-for-one in this slot. While Foligno never fully found himself in Ottawa, he’s had seasons of 31 and 26 goals for the Columbus Blue Jackets. The 2012 trade that sent him to Ohio landed the Senators valuable blue-liner Marc Methot in a deal that benefited both players and clubs.}}
{{There comes a time in every persons life where they feel the need to branch out a little bit, spread their wings per say, step out of their comfort zone and try something new.\nI get it. I really do.\nI'm totally guilty of this myself - both in my day to day life and when it comes to the music that I love - and I love a lot of music.\nThere have been days that began with a little Motorhead, slowly morphing into some Van Halen with breakfast. Maybe a quick shot of Gaslight Anthem on my way into work.\nAfterwards, there have been instances of Pat Metheny over dinner or even Mike Stern with dessert. Fridays and Saturdays occasionally include a little Drake or god-forbid, even some Kanye amped up in the mix.\nI know what you're thinking, but I like to see myself as being musically "open".\nUnfortunately, in order to keep everything neatly tucked away in it's rightful place, and to avoid musical chaos, we created labels to help differentiate ourselves from one another.\nIt's a good thing too, I mean, can you imagine if the Ramones crowd made it's way into the Luke Bryan show? or if country bands played Ozzy songs at their live shows?\nWait a minute... (insert album scratch here)\nThis all came to mind as I spent last weekend out at Prairie Winds Park for the first ever Country Thunder music festival held right here in Calgary.\nI know, you're all scoffing at the country music part but I'll be totally honest and say that it was a pretty great time. Unlike the annual Stampede, where the goal is to see how many Jagr shots you can do without chipping a tooth, this festival was all about a bunch of really cool people getting together to have a good time listening to some really cool music.\nBut as always, instead of just soaking it all in, I had to analyze exactly what I was experiencing (yes, my mind is a strange place to be sometimes) and the thing that really grabbed me was the fact that all (ok, maybe just 'most') country music artists really just want to be rock stars.\nTake Big & Rich for example. These guys come rushing out on stage, with their tassels and top hats, rocking a killer Gibson Flying V - the country equivalent to the heavy metal pointy headstock - and proceed straight into a hard rocking set that could have easily been confused with a Kid Rock show.\nThen there's relative newcomer Chris Jansen, he comes blazing out on the stage faster than Axl Rose after a fan with a camera and even though he's singing about rednecks and pickup trucks, the attitude just screams rock n' roll.\nI could go on.\nAnother thing that was blatantly obvious with these artists was that, almost all of them would play a couple of their own tunes then break into a wicked jam filled with cool old rock songs. Songs that we all know and love but would never expect to hear at a country music festival. Funny thing is, the crowd absolutely loved it.\nI heard Back Black by AC/DC, Free's All Right Now, of course, Bon Jovi's Wanted Dead Or Alive and even a rendition of Ozzy's classic Crazy Train - which they totally bailed on before reaching the solo - but really, do we need to hear Randy Rhoads played on a Tele? Maybe it was better that way.\nNow I know that country music has been evolving for quite some time now and really, it has reached the point of being pop rock dressed in tight Wranglers and a stetson, but if you take away all the labels, sometimes you're actually left with some pretty cool rock n' roll music.\nWhich brings me to my point.\nCreative people will never be satisfied just hanging out under one umbrella for their entire careers. They need to grow, evolve and sometimes experiment with new instruments and ideas to help feed the ever-hungry beast that is their art. And yes, often that involves having your fans question your motives.\nAdmittedly, at the time I did question these country artists motives for breaking into my beloved rock songs but after digesting it for the week, I realized that I would do exactly the same because, in the end, it's all just a bunch of talented artists, spreading their musical wings, playing some great songs that make thousands of people happy - regardless of what label you slap on it.\n- - - - -\nWith that said, I decided to come up with a killer list of rock stars who, very unexpectedly, switched gears and ended up in the Country music genre - some more successful than others...\n10. Brett Michaels\nWe always knew that Poison frontman Brett Michaels had a little southern drawl in him and in 2005, while serving as a judge on the Nashville Star reality TV show, he proved it to the world with the release of his third solo album called Freedom of Sound.\nThe album featured the song All I Ever Needed (featuring Jessica Andrews) which would peak at No. 45 on Billboards Hot Country Songs chart.\nThis wasn't his first foray into the country world as he released an EP called Country Demos in 2000 and definitely wasn't his last as he released a country compilation album titled True Grit in 2015 (and we all remember that duet with Miley Cyrus from the Custom Built album as well right?).\n9. Ron Keel\nAny self-respecting 80's hair metal fan will remember Ron Keel as a founding member of the band Steeler as well his namesake project Keel. Hi s two most popular albums (The right to Rock & The Final Frontier) were produced by legendary KISS bassist, Gene Simmons.\nAfter the demise of his band Keel, he rebranded himself as a country artist, even taking on the name Ronnie Lee Keel, eventually releasing two albums with his band Iron Horse.\nThese days Ron Keel has dubbed himself "The Metal Cowboy", releasing an album of the same name in 2014. He also hosts a show on classic rock radio and is the lead vocalist for the Badlands House Band at Badlands Pawn in Sioux Falls, South Dakota\n8. Robert Plant\nthe original 'Golden God', Led Zeppelin frontman Robert Plant is easily regarded as one of the greatest rock & roll singers of all time but after the band split up in 1980, Plant went on to an extensive solo career that dabbled in numerous different musical stylings.\nHis most successful outing though had to be the collaboration album with bluegrass singer Alison Krauss in 2007, titled Raising Sand, featuring the singles Gone, Gone, Gone, Please Read The Letter and Rich Woman.\nWhile none of the songs would make a dent in the charts, the album would achieve platinum status in the U.S., UK and Canada and went on to win a 2009 Grammy Award for Album Of The Year.\n7. Jack White\nThroughout the years we've come to expect a little bit of anything from garage rocker Jack White but at the beginning of the White Stripes career, the unexpected was not looked on quite as likely.\nThe first single from the band's third (and breakthrough album) White Blood Cells, Hotel Yorba is a old-school country flavoured song written about a real hotel in his hometown of Detroit, where there were (false) rumours that John Lennon once stayed there.\nThe song is a massive switch from the next single, Fell In Love With A Girl, which reached No. 12 on the Billboard Modern rock chart and helped get the band out of the garage and onto arena stages around the world.\n6. Dallas Smith - Default\nAs lead singer for the post-grunge rock band Default, Dallas Smith saw his first single Wasting My Time (from the album The Fallout), reach No. 1 on both the Canadian and the U.S. Mainstream rock charts. The Chad Kroeger discovered band would then go on to release another three albums until going on hiatus in 2009.\nIn 2012, Smith released his debut solo album titled Jumped Right In and fans were left wondering how or when this country crossover happened. Confused as they were, the album was successful and spawned the singles Somebody, Somewhere, What Kinda Love and Nothing But Summer.\nStill working with Kroeger's 604 Records, Smith has stuck with the country vibe and his new album, Side Effects, is slated to be released on September 2, 2016\n5. Jon Bon Jovi\nHere's another example of a rocker we always knew would crossover one day. The obvious evidence lied in his hits Wanted Dead or Alive, Ride Cowboy Ride and of course, Blaze of Glory - well, that and the fact that he just looked so darn dreamy in a cowboy hat.\nIn 2005, Bon Jovi released their ninth studio album titled Have A Nice Day, which featured a country version of the song Who Says You Can't Go Home, a duet with Sugarland vocalist Jennifer Nettles and featured Keith Urban playing banjo.\nThe song was a huge success and went on to give Bon Jovi the distinction of being the first rock band to have a number one single on the Billboard country chart.\n4. Sebastian Bach - Battle of the Bottle\nThis has got to be the least likely rocker on this list to make the jump into country but yes, back in 2008, Skid Row frontman Sebastian Bach was crowned the winner of the reality television series Gone Country.\nIn the second season of the series, Bach beat out contestants such as Jermaine Jackson, Chris Kirkpatrick (N'Sync) and Lorenzo Lamas and released the single Battle With The Bottle, produced by John Rich, of Big & Rich to country radio around North America shortly afterwards.\nThankfully, this was his one and only time stumbling into the western world - don't get me wrong - Bas can sing anything and make it sound awesome - but the rock world needs maniacs like him and we won't let him go without an old-fashioned bar room shoot-out.\n3. Kid Rock\nSeeing Kid Rock nowadays is quite the experience. His live show is a yuckaflux of musical stylings ranging from hip hip to rap rock to southern and country flavours. It wasn't always this way though.\nIn fact, it wasn't until his fifth album, 2001's Cocky, that we began to hear Kid Rock heading towards his southern roots.\nThe album featured the hit single Picture, a country duet with Sheryl Crow, but some drama ensued with the labels so Kid Rock released a version of the song with Allison Moorer instead. Once the song started making it's way up the charts, Crow's people had a change of heart and quickly released their version of the song, which would become a massive hit for the duo, peaking at No. 1 on the singles chart and give Kid Rock a chance to crossover into a more contemporary audience.\n2. Aaron Lewis - Staind\nVoted one of the top 100 heavy metal vocalists of all time by Hit Parader magazine, Aaron Lewis recorded 7 albums with his hard rock band Staind before he released his first full length country album titled The Road in 2012.\nLewis claims that he always had an interest in country music and that it had been rekindled while out on tour with Kid Rock when he began recording songs that would be released as a 2011 EP called Town Line.\nHis first single, Country Boy, featured legendary country artists George Jones and Charlie Daniels, as well as Nashville Star winner Chris Young and helped push the EP to No. 1 on the Country charts.\n1. Steven Tyler\nAfter 45 years and 15 albums with the Boston based rock group Aerosmith, lead singer Steven Tyler finally decided to release a solo album - shocking fans when they learned it would be a country album.\nWe're All Somebody from Somewhere was released on July 15, 2016 and the lead single Love Is Your Name climbed all the way to No. 19 on the country singles chart.\nThe album received mixed reviews by critics but in my humble opinion, if you need to pick a winner from this list, This is easily it. Steven Tyler reinvented himself as only he could have and I will gladly go on record saying that while I do love Aerosmith, this is even better than what the band has been doing on the last few outings.\n- - - - -\nSo there you go. My list of rockers who have made the leap into country music.\nAs always, this is in no way a complete list so if you completely disagree with my choices or can think of any other rock stars gone country that should be included on this list, feel free to contact me via the links below.\ndpilling@postmedia.com\nOn Twitter: @DeanPilling_MME}}
{{Photo by Heather Kaplan\nSouth By Southwest found itself in some hot water earlier this year when a clause in its artist agreement regarding the potential deportation of international artists was deemed offensive and xenophobic by certain acts. The festival has since changed the language of the clause, and is now doubling down on their opposition to anti-immigration laws with the release of a new statement.\nFirst, some context: The city of Austin just joined San Antonio’s lawsuit against Texas’ Senate Bill 4, which aims to enforce federal immigration laws in “sanctuary cities” and allow police to question the immigration status of anyone they arrest. To further cement Austin’s support, two US Senators asked SXSW CEO Roland Swenson to move the festival out of the city until the bill gets repealed as an act of protest. Swenson denied their request, but asserted his support. “We will stay here and continue to make our event inclusive while fighting for the rights of all,” he said.\nNow, SXSW has delivered a new statement on the bill in an affidavit filed by Swenson on Monday. Read it below.\n“Today, the City of Austin filed the affidavit of SXSW’s CEO, Roland Swenson, in support of its lawsuit against the State of Texas, which challenges the constitutionality of SB4.\nWe are concerned that SB4 will substantially limit the participation of U.S. citizens and foreign nationals in SXSW and limit the diversity and quality of the event. This decrease in participation will also diminish our substantial economic contribution to the City of Austin and the State of Texas.\nSXSW was born in Austin. The event is steeped in the city and the city is our home. We stand behind the City and Mayor Adler, and we intend to stay and fight discriminatory legislation that hinders civil rights, while continuing to work to make our events inclusive and safe for all who attend.\nSXSW has become embedded in the fabric of Austin and is more or less synonymous with the city. Swenson may have refused to move the festival (an act that would be a logistical and financial nightmare), but the institution’s support carries weight. Here’s hoping their involvement plays a part in the repeal of this racist, small-minded bill.”}}
{{Vandals tear apart family's Winter Wonderland\nThe Stricker family’s “Winter Wonderland” in Centennial, Colo. was a winner in the Denver Post’s 2015 Holiday Lights Contest and they continue to deck out the house for the holidays each year. This year, they noticed some of their decorations were disturbed and surveillance footage of their front yard revealed that three people had pulled up to the house and began ripping apart some of the decorations.}}
{{It's been a week since Linkin Park's Chester Bennington died and his bandmates continue to pay their respects to their fallen friend.\nIt's been a week since Linkin Park's Chester Bennington died and his bandmates continue to pay their respects to their fallen friend.}}
{{Kendall Jenner closed out Love magazine’s advent calendar with some not-so-peaceful meditation.\nThe 21-year-old model sported a nude, bedazzled bikini in the Day 25 video for the annual calendar titled “Love Meditation.” And appeared to sit on a cloud as she attempted to become one with the universe. Liz Goldwyn directed the video.\nSet to a cosmic backdrop, showing a cloudy then star-filled sky, Jenner sat with her eyes closed. She soon stood and let out a yell as lightening flashed around her.\nKeeping with Love’s attention-grabbing theme, a close-up of the star showed animated, rainbow tears falling from Jenner’s eyes.\nUltimately, the video featured all the staples of the magazine’s annual calendar: a supermodel wearing next-to-nothing and doing some pretty bizarre things.\nThe video marks Jenner’s second appearance in the 2016 calendar. She also starred in the Day 5 advent directed by Hype Williams. And she’s cemented herself as a Love advent veteran, boasting several appearances on the annual calendar since 2014.\nIt seems Jenner is the apple of the magazine’s eye. She’s graced the cover, shot an editorial for the magazine and is even expected to photograph the publication’s next cover.}}
{{At an elementary school in Linz, Catholic children have to memorize and recite Islamic songs as part of the Islamic Ramadan festival. They were forced to take part and were punished if they refused.\n“We were on our way home when he suddenly started to sing ‘Allah, Allah’,” a shocked mother of one of the students says. He learned that at school and had to sing it. “It felt like a slap in my face!” she adds.\n“Mom, we have to get involved. The teacher said: “If we do not do that, we’ll have to go to the director and then there’ll be a punishment,” the son reported in fear of his mother’s reprisals. For two months he had to rehearse the songs.\nRead more}}
{{Nokia's oft-maligned unlimited music service looks set to be coming to an end after internal documents were leaked online.\nAccording to Esphoneblog, no more Ovi Music Unlimited (formerly known as Comes With Music) devices will be shipped, and after 16 January this year customers have not been able to renew their unlimited music license.\nThose that have already bought an OMU device and haven't activated the free music download service still can do so, but won't be able to renew it in a year's time.\nDRM downer\nNokia's Comes With Music service debuted all the way back in October 2008, but has seen poor take up in places like the UK – although enjoyed better success in regions like Singapore.\nThe high price of the devices, as well as the music being hard to download and locked to a PC and phone, are some of the reasons touted for the low user base – had Nokia managed to bring DRM Comes With Music to everywhere, and not just China, then perhaps it would have been a different story.\nWe'll be chasing Nokia today for confirmation of this decision, but it seems pretty likely that we're not going to be seeing unlimited music from Nokia again.\nVia Esphoneblog}}
{{Imphal, September 21 2017: Three persons were stopped while trying to enter Manipur via Jiribam district on Thursday, a senior police officer said, adding that 800 suspected foreigners have been stopped in their bid to enter the State, from this district alone, since January this year .\nTen persons were trying to enter Manipur but three of them had no identification papers and were not allowed to enter, said K Ajitkumar, Additional Superintendent of Police, Jiribam .\nHe said: “Police are checking those who try to enter Manipur through this border district.”\nHome Minister N Biren Singh told IANS that with the deployment of additional forces, security has been beefed up at Jiribam and Moreh, two border towns.\nPolice are looking for Rohingya Muslims .\nPolice are also conducting a house-to-house verification of persons in Moreh being supervised by S Ibomcha, Superintendent of Police of Tengnoupal district, bordering Myanmar .\nThere is fear that Rohingya Muslims may try to sneak into Manipur through Moreh from Myanmar or from Bangladesh through Jiribam, though “so far no Rohingya Muslim has been detected at Moreh”, said Ibomcha .\nWhile the Government is being urged to check the possible influx of Rohingya Muslims, some Muslim organisations in Manipur took out processions demanding refugee status for the Rohingyas.\nSource: The Sangai Express / IANS}}
{{In India, there are thousands of schools working to provide education to the children. Some of them are supported by the government and some of them are working privately. As there is a huge list of schools in India it is not an easy task to find out the best one. All the parents always want to give the best education to their children in this manner they need to search for the best CBSE schools in Delhi NCR (http://www.sunderdeepworld.in/) where they can give the modern education to their child in order to get success in the competitive world.\nRespectable CBSE School Sunderdeep is situated in Ghaziabad, one of the biggest industrial city of U.P. We trust that education isn’t just an instrument to achieve proficient points of reference yet in addition a way to improve life. That is the primary reason; these schools are extraordinary compared to other school in this city. Hence, it strive towards advancing uniqueness through value based education, which advances a worldwide viewpoint yet holds natural Indian social customs.\nThe thought behind best education is to promote equivalent open doors for all kids to take an interest in the learning procedure, regardless of their mental or physical capacities. SWS is the best schools in Ghaziabad CBSE board.\nWe try to give not just an academic education of a high standard, yet in addition make a domain which supports the improvement of every individual’s nurturing and inherent and intrinsic talent of a person overall. We assure parents to give the world class education to all our children.\nSWS Ghaziabad plans to introduce 21st century skills in students and prepare them to wind up worldwide subjects. Encouraging scientific temperament, competitive spirit, social skills, and fostering character building, are our constant efforts as the best public school in Ghaziabad. The educational programs are intended to offer exciting range of co-curricular activities and unmatched academic environment.\nAs the name, our school is work on energy and focus in developing a respectable individual in our each student. It provides all facilities to your child to engage all students to optimize and recognize their maximum capacity. It is one the best choice for making the bright future of your Child.\nAs the best schools in Ghaziabad NCR the main mission of SWS is making their student agreeable with learning condition of school with imaginative thoughts related to studies. It increment inventiveness of your child in each field possibly it is in field of study or craft & art related. We know that the growth of a child depends on the learning conditions and also on the teachers, in this way we always hire experienced and the most talented people of the field. They are experts of their subjects and know the methods of teaching very well.\nThe professional way of learning and the best education environment has made our schools as the top best schools in Delhi NCR, who developing the life-long skills in the students.\nGet the bright future of your child with quality education provided by SWS!\nTo get more info about us you may visit us at:\nSunder Deep Campus, NH-24 Delhi-Hapur Road, Ghaziabad\n0120-2763050, 1800 833 0080, 7840090850/49/48\nprincipalsdws@gmail.com}}
{{By Mary Ann Inman\nReporter\nThe Clinton Community District School Board met at the Clinton High School in Room 311 on Monday, Aug. 15, 7 p.m. Board Members present were: Gary Gilbank, Tom Howard, Dustin Esselman, Ken Luety, Evelyn Propp, and Melissa Manthei. Jill Gunderson was absent.\nPick up this week’s printed edition for full story….}}
{{Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Lauren Peace talks with attorney Sharon Stiller and Michelle Cammarata of Restore Sexual Assault services about how to identify instances of sexual harassment and what to do about it. Lauren Peace, Virginia Butler\nFlorian Jaeger (Photo: University of Rochester)\nIn the days after a federal complaint alleged that the University of Rochester had protected a noted professor and "manipulative sexual predator" — even going so far as to retaliate against the complainants — UR President Joel Seligman sought to contain the crisis, "turn the page and cleanse the air."\nBut that was not to be.\n"This is a crisis," Seligman recently acknowledged in a closed session with UR faculty, "and it is different in kind than any of us have faced."\nAnd that crisis continues to grow. Three more women affiliated with UR's prestigious Brain and Cognitive Sciences department have now come forward, according to Jef McAllister, managing partner with McAllister Olivarius, the complainants’ legal team — bringing the total alleged victims to 14.\nThe case of noted psycholinguistics professor Florian Jaeger has resonated across the nation and around the world — leaving UR to defend not only its actions, and shore up lost confidence among faculty, staff and students but also to repair its reputation.\nBuy Photo Harry Gu, a UR student, holds a poster with cartoon of Joel Seligman on it during a protest Wednesday over dissatisfaction of UR's handling of sexual harassment allegations against professor. (Photo: MAX SCHULTE, @maxrocphoto/staff photographer)\nMost troubling is what the scandal has revealed — that what is alleged to have occurred in the university's prestigious BCS department is not unique. Rather, it is symptomatic of a system that puts graduate students in a subservient position to faculty empowered as teacher, adviser, boss, examiner, research supervisor and singularly powerful reference for future employment.\n"In light of recent events, both students and colleagues are telling many of us that they have come to expect sexual harassment to be a ‘normal’ and unavoidable part of academic life," read an open letter to the Linguistic Society of America.\nThe letter was in response to the Jaeger case but not limited to it, said LSA executive director Alyson Reed. It was signed by 1,100 academics and professionals from across the United States — and at least two dozen other countries.\nBuy Photo Jessica Cantlon, associate professor, and Celeste Kidd, assistant professor, in the Brain and Cognitive Sciences at the University of Rochester talk about the sexual harassment allegations against professor Florian Jaeger, the University of Rochester's response and some of the side repercussions like how it has affected the science. (Photo: TINA MACINTYRE-YEE, @tyee23/staff photographer)\nAn estimated one in 10 female graduate students at top U.S. universities report being sexually harassed by faculty, researchers have found. The harassment tends to be not just verbal but physical. Offenders often are serial harassers. Public attention has focused most intently on impacts in scientific disciplines.\nJaeger — in complaints first raised by Dick Aslin, a renowned researcher who helped create and lead BCS — is accused of having sexual relationships and using illegal drugs with students, making inappropriate, humiliating or condescending comments to and about female students and faculty, pressuring them to meet with him alone, and conditioning access with being part of his social circle.\n"The lives and careers of BCS graduate students became Jaeger's personal playground," reads a 111-page federal Equal Employment Opportunity Complaint filed by Aslin and seven other current and former faculty and students.\nJaeger sent the Democrat and Chronicle an email Friday afternoon in response to several inquiries.\n"As soon as I became aware of the EEOC complaint, I let my students know that I will continue to support them financially in the same way as I have previously, even if they choose to work with an other advisor," the statement said.\nHe added, "I made them aware that they will likely be a strong public reaction based on the allegations before I would even have a chance to reply to those allegations in a venue that respects due process, and where I can defend myself without violating the need for confidentiality that protects alleged victims and witnesses."\nUR has found the initial claims without merit. But its early response, particularly efforts intended to heal divisions, raised troubling claims of retaliation and contributed to departures that threaten to decimate the department.\nUniversity trustees appointed a special committee of its members back on Sept. 19, and hired high-powered special investigator Mary Jo White, former U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and past chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Seligman has largely been sidelined, a move he said was mutually agreed upon with trustees "given concerns raised about a potential lack of objectivity in any administration-sponsored effort." He has pledged an investigation free from interference by the administration or UR trustees.\nOn Thursday, the special committee announced it would add a faculty and graduate student members, and that the investigative findings report would be made public, unedited, the same day it is received.\nIn Seligman’s meeting with the Faculty Senate, also on Sept. 19, he said the forthcoming investigation would be "highly unbounded," opening the door to it also taking on a separate sexual harassment and retaliation complaint emanating from UR's renowned Eastman School of Music.\nIn the room during that faculty meeting were at least two of Jaeger's alleged victims, Celeste Kidd and Jessica Cantlon. At one point, Seligman addressed them directly.\n"I apologize to you," he said, according to draft confidential meeting minutes obtained and verified by the Democrat and Chronicle. "It is the case that we have a ways to go, but if your claims are totally vindicated in the review that Mary Jo White conducts, I’ll be the first to fully support that."\nFaculty Senate meetings are closed to the general public. When the Democrat and Chronicle offered Seligman the chance to confirm, correct or amend his remarks, he responded via email, "I will not comment on a confidential document. I regret that the regular order of our Faculty Senate appears to have been violated by the public release of these minutes."\nUniversity of Rochester President Joel Seligman, shown here at the UR staff awards in Helen Wood Hall on April 21, 2014. (Photo: Courtesy of the University of Rochester)\n'Without regard for science'\nAs Becca Canale, a third-year undergraduate student in UR's BCS program, walked into her psycholinguistics seminar on the first day of class back in August, she prepared herself for the semester ahead.\nThe course, taught by Jaeger, was a general requirement for her degree, and she was excited to learn what the semester had to offer.\n"I didn't actually know Jaeger too much before this year, but I do have multiple friends who were his advisees. He's very much a part of our department," said Canale. "I had heard that he was a professor known for sleeping with grad students through friends in the department, but nothing to the same extent of what's come out since."\nBuy Photo Celeste Kidd is an assistant professor in the Brain and Cognitive Sciences department at the University of Rochester. (Photo: TINA MACINTYRE-YEE, @tyee23/staff photographer)\nCanale described Jaeger's demeanor on that first day as "a little forward," alluding to his use of crude comments and foul language.\n"I think it was probably just him trying to be a cool professor, but it was a little weird, especially on the first day," she said.\nRebecca Handsman, another student in the class, echoed Canale's description of Jaeger's demeanor.\nThat day marked the only appearance Jaeger would make in front of a class before the allegations against him were made public, forcing him to step down from teaching and resulting in administrative leave.\nThe decision on administrative leave was made jointly, after a series of institutional choices that critics say compromised the safety and comfort of its students and staff, the university’s standing, and an entire field of research.\n"Decisions were made without regard for science," said Kidd.\nAt the height of its success, UR’s Brain and Cognitive Sciences department was regarded as one of the top sites in country, ranking fourth in the nation by the National Research Council. The innovative domain differed from those at other universities because of its multidisciplinary make-up, which recruited faculty and students with backgrounds not only in cognitive science and psychology, but also neuroscience, and provided a collaborative home for seasoned experts and rising stars whose interests danced the line of the two fields.\nUniversity leaders believe keeping that together is important. Said Seligman: "The department is broken, and the question of how it is revitalized is of urgent consequence."\nBuy Photo Jenna Register, Shirlene Wade and Lindsay Wrobel speaks to a gathering of UR students during a protest Wednesday over dissatisfaction of UR's handling of sexual harassment allegations against professor. (Photo: MAX SCHULTE, @maxrocphoto/staff photographer)\nBuy Photo Teddi Shapiro comforts Sarah Elderkin, both UR students, during a protest Wednesday over dissatisfaction of UR's handling of sexual harassment allegations against professor. (Photo: MAX SCHULTE, @maxrocphoto/staff photographer)\nDuring the faculty meeting, Gerald Gamm, chairman of the UR political science and history department, challenged Seligman on that point, raising concern that the best faculty in BCS and at UR "are being sent signals subtly — or sometimes not subtly at all — that the institution is happy for them to move on." Failing to make effective or timely counter offers or even speak up, "and fight for them to stay."\n"I unrelentingly have encouraged every administrator to whom I spoke to try to retain every faculty member in BCS, without exception," Seligman said. "I wanted no one to leave."\nNo one else, maybe. Three of the seven complainants already have left, and four others are considering following suit.\n"We had everything going for us. We had great labs, great students and great colleagues," said Cantlon, who said that she, too, is actively looking for faculty positions at other universities. "It was special. Our labs were thriving. Now we have to shut it all down and build it up somewhere else."\nKidd remains, for now, but is unable to complete portions of her research, she said, because of the departures. Her primary collaborators were Aslin, who set up one of the world's only baby brain imaging centers before resigning in December 2016, and Hayden, whose work provides an important link between basic cognitive and neuroscience research. He left this past summer.\nUR counter-offered Hayden late, and Aslin not at all, according to the complaint.\n"I invested 33 years in the university and had many collaborations and friends," said Aslin, a National Academy of Sciences member. "I wasn’t looking to leave. We weren’t planning on leaving Someday we might have, but that day came earlier than expected."\nAccording to Aslin, the handling of situation by the university made little sense, especially given the stature of the complainants, who have brought in tens of millions of dollars in grant money and scientific prestige, as stated in the document submitted to the EEOC.\nWhen Hayden left for the University of Minnesota, lab technicians, students and post-docs, followed, including Priyanka Mehta, a second-year graduate student in his lab.\n"I applied for Ben’s research," Mehta said, "and there’s nobody else in the department who does what he does."\nBuy Photo Laura Cowie-Haskell, a UR student, during a protest Wednesday over dissatisfaction of UR's handling of sexual harassment allegations against professor. (Photo: MAX SCHULTE, @maxrocphoto/staff photographer)\nResearch is currency\nOne chooses a graduate program based on its prestige and the ability to work with supporting expertise in their field. In the STEM fields, particularly, students look at individual faculty and what research they are doing.\nResearch papers are currency in academia. Getting published increases your stature and advances your career. In the early going, a faculty adviser helps students navigate and submit their research and build contacts. Should that relationship sour, the switch to someone else could mean changing the direction of study, dumping years of research and forgoing published work, or losing a prominent reference.\nIn the EEOC complaint that was filed Aug. 30, Kidd alleged sexual harassment by Jaeger, her then-superior, that she said continued for years because of the substantial power differential that existed between them.\nIt's a recognized and often normalized facet of graduate education, one with roots deep within the constructs of academia that is vulnerable to abuse of power, manipulation of student researchers and sexual harassment.\nThat vulnerability arises because doctoral candidates, particularly those in scientific fields, spend years working in close proximity and under the supervision of one primary faculty member, according to a study published this past May in the Journal of Legal Education titled "Mapping the Title IX Iceberg: Sexual Harassment (Mostly) in Graduate School by College Faculty.” And because that adviser determines whether or not to grant their PhD, these students are extremely susceptible to situations of abuse, and often are reluctant to report it for fear of retaliation.\nBuy Photo Jessica Cantlon is an associate professor in the Brain and Cognitive Sciences Department at the University of Rochester. (Photo: TINA MACINTYRE-YEE, @tyee23/staff photographer)\n"You're working with a professor that really determines everything about your graduate career," said Stephen Ferrigno, a fourth-year grad student in the BCS department at UR. "They determine whether you pass your classes, your qualifying exams and the fate of your progression through the program."\nCantlon, one of the complainants to come forward with Kidd, is Ferrigno's adviser.\nThe complaint draws on others’ experiences at UR, specifically that of a former graduate piano student at Eastman School of Music.\nIn the Eastman case, a federal appellate court in June affirmed dismissal of Joseph Irrera’s claim of sexual harassment, largely on the basis that it was brought after the statute of limitations had expired. But the court cleared the way for him to proceed with an allegation of retaliation.\nIrrera claimed that while pursuing his doctorate in music arts (2009-14) he rejected unwanted advances from his teacher, Douglas Humphreys, chairman of the piano department. Humphreys allegedly retaliated, failing him on back-to-back recitals just months before he won the America Protégé International Competition and performed at Carnegie Hall (for the second time) and, in a recorded conversation, threatening Irrera that he would never get a job.\nIrrera said he was warned by a college dean that future employers would seek out Humphreys for a reference and school officials couldn’t protect him. He applied to 28 colleges and universities after graduation, court papers show. None called back. He sued, naming Humphreys and UR.\nThe district court ruled it was speculative to blame Humphreys, but the appellate court found it sufficiently plausible, noting Irrera “is a graduate of one of the nation’s most highly regarded schools of music.”\nUR undertakes 50 or 60 investigations each year of employees accused of discrimination and harassment. Between 30 percent and 50 percent of those relate to sex or gender as the protected class, as opposed to race, national origin or other areas, according to UR General Counsel Gail Norris.\nIt was not known how many involve graduate students.\nThe terms upon which you receive a PhD are vague from the beginning. The incredibly loose structure can be beneficial and allow the student to pursue the research they are most interested in, said Wednesday Bushong, a third-year grad student and member of Jaeger's lab. But it can get complicated if the adviser starts abusing their power.\nBushong said that was not her experience with Jaeger.\n"One of the biggest struggles is that you never really know how well you're doing, and it's not clear what happens if you're deemed to not be making good progress," she said.\nIn his email on Friday, Jaeger addressed his continued commitment to his students: "I will try my best to continue to support my students/post-docs research and careers, and to help them navigate the uncertainties of the current situation. I feel that this is at least one small part that I can do for them."\nWhatever the outcome at UR, the research of Bushong and others is forever connected to Jaeger. What becomes of his career going forward is unclear. But faculty at other institutions have been reaching out, and publicly voicing support for the affected students, Bushong said.\nAll this started with concerns that a man wasn’t valuing women based on their work. Wouldn’t it be ironic, she said, if people in the field didn’t value their work based on the man.\n'A learning experience'\nThe question of how to mend and revitalize the Brain and Cognitive Science department is “of urgent consequence,” Seligman told faculty.\nMore importantly, however, "these are moral issues," he said, "and this is our culture."\nBeyond the potential loss in university reputation, is a more damaging ramification for the institution's most vulnerable members, and an indicative demonstration of why, perhaps, a vast majority of instances of sexual harassment and assault go unreported.\nMeredith Hastings, an associate professor at Brown University, is co-principal investigator on a $1.1 million National Science Foundation grant to combat sexual harassment on college campuses and in her field of earth and environmental science.\nFrom what she's read of the UR case, Hastings said she has concerns about the impact on those considering reporting their own encounters with sexual harassment and assault.\n"The issue is society wide. There's a tendency to question the motives of the victims instead of the validity of the accusations," Hastings said. "There's a lot of discussion about why people don't come forward, or why they take so long to do so. If as a victim you're going to be victimized by the public, why would you?"\nIn the case at UR, Kidd said it took her a near decade, until she was a tenured faculty member with the support of colleagues, to be in a position where she felt safe enough to come forward. But she said students still hold the same risks in doing so that she held years ago.\nThe handling of Kidd's case has led Handsman, a third-year undergraduate student in the BCS program, to second guess her dream of going to grad school.\n"Right after this happened, I was very scared. Celeste is so accomplished and so young, and she does a lot of what I want to do," Handsman said. "My sister is in grad school right now (at a different university), and she said that the same stuff happens."\nAt the Linguistic Society, Reed points to a different type of scandal, that of child sex abuse in Penn State athletics. That first hit the news in March 2011, but remains top of mind today and, Reed said, “certainly has changed people’s perceptions about Penn State.”\nSeligman insisted White’s investigation, the commission on gender — which he expects to position UR as “the national leader in supporting our faculty, students and staff” — all should provide assurance that UR is taking matters seriously.\nFaculty and students are working to select members for the promised Commission on Women and Gender. The group should be announced and begin meeting in the coming weeks, a UR spokeswoman said, with a final report expected no later than April 30.\n“Let’s be fair,” Seligman said. “This is the kind of issue which happens at a lot of institutions from time to time. Crises happen. No one wants them, no one plans for them. The real measure of an institution is how you respond to them.”\nThat is not to say that UR didn’t attempt to address, diffuse or otherwise head off what one faculty member described as “something horribly embarrassing." There were efforts made "over a sustained period of time," Seligman said: “And this is, to put it mildly, a learning experience.”\n“At this point in time I would say the university is going to have to do something more proactive,” said Ray Martino, a lecturer at Nazareth College and one of the founders of Martino Flynn whose career in public relations focused on crisis communications. “Now they are in an image repair mode.\n"It isn’t just apologizing. It’s showing the public that we are going to do something differently.”\nLPEACE@Gannet.com\nBDSHARP@Gannett.com\nBackground\nT. Florian Jaeger, 41, joined UR as an assistant professor in 2007.\nHe came highly recommended from Stanford and the University of California San Diego, considered a rising star in the specialized field of psycholinguistics. Essentially a mashup of psychology and linguistics, the field has been adopting a more computational not just experiential approach, and Jaeger was at the forefront of that research.\nThe complaints started in 2016, first raised by Richard Aslin, an established, well-respected academic and former dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, who helped create and lead the BCS department.\n"Jaeger slept with so many students at UR or other institutions, and made passes at so many others, that his penchant for having sex with graduate students became well known among Ph.D.s and post-docs," the complaint states.\nUR investigated, promoted Jaeger to full professor over Aslin's objections, cleared Jaeger of any wrongdoing, then allegedly retaliated against Aslin and the complainants when they appealed. Aslin joined with seven other prominent researchers to file an Equal Employment Opportunity Commission complaint on Aug. 30. The case was first reported by Mother Jones the following week. The EEOC has cleared the way for at least one of the complainants to file a lawsuit.\nJaeger agreed to administrative leave saying in a statement that it was not an admission of guilt. Aslin since left and now is working at Yale.\nRead or Share this story: http://on.rocne.ws/2kb64sZ}}
{{The Government has been forced to apologise over a question about pupils’ ethnicity in the controversial national school census.\nItalian ambassador Pasquale Terracciano criticised the data forms sent out by UK schools asking parents whether their child was “Italian”, “Italian-Sicilian” or “Italian-Neapolitan”, pointing out that Italy has been a unified country since 1861.\nA number of families had filed complaints to the embassy in London over the issue – one of several problems highlighted in the changes to school data collections brought into effect this year – prompting fresh calls for a boycott of the census.\nSpeaking to Italian news source Ansa, Mr Terracciano said he believed the categories were listed with the intention of helping to identify “non-existent special linguistic needs”.\n“But the road to hell is paved with good intentions,” he added, noting that such actions could be “unintentionally discriminatory, as well as offensive to southerners”.\nPosting a statement online, the Italian embassy in London said it had requested an immediate change and removal of the regional categorisations.\nIn a letter sent to Mr Terracciano and published following a Freedom of Information (FOI) request, officials from the Department for Education and Government Statistical Service apologised for the unnecessary categorisation.\nThe government bodies said: “We are writing … to offer our apologies for any offence that may have been caused to the Italian people by the way in which the issue of the Italian language was dealt with in a recent data collection exercise by the Department for Education statisticians.”\n“Statisticians across government regularly collect information on language. We are mindful that this is a sensitive area, and endeavour that we collect that information in a respectful way. On this occasion, we have failed to do so.”\nGovernment's controversial school census to record pupil nationality 'has all the hallmarks of racism' Lords warn\nThe Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) said the categories had appeared as part of a “historic administrative error” in the language codes issued on the census forms.\nA spokesperson said the FCO was “grateful for the Italian Embassy’s close cooperation” and confirmed the forms have since been corrected.\nJen Persson, campaign coordinator for Defend Digital Me, who issued the FOI request, said the incident was “concerning”, and one of many examples of government error witnessed this year regarding the data collection. She said: “Language used as a proxy for ethnicity is a sensitive issue and emotive as it can come with many incorrect assumptions. “\nSince September, schools and colleges have been required by the DfE to ask parents to provide personal information of their children’s nationality, place of birth and English language skills.\nEthnicity data has been collected in previous years, but the government faced backlash after The Independent revealed that a number of schools had been advised to guess pupil ethnicity in cases where the information was not already provided.\nData protection campaigners and cross-party MPs have expressed concerns that information stored on the National Pupil Database could be exploited by immigration enforcement and third parties.\nIn accordance with government guidelines, schools must request census information from parents but make it clear this information is given voluntarily. If a parent chooses not to respond, this can be marked as “refused”.\nConcerns have been raised however, that this information is not always being made clear – and calls have been made for a boycott of the census altogether.\nCommenting on the issue raised by the Italian embassy, Ms Persson said: “This example shows that one complaint can make a difference and get it fixed for everyone.\n“Parents need to stand up and challenge what they feel is wrong about their own child's data collection and they should be told they can ask for data already submitted in the expanded autumn census to be withdrawn.\n“Schools do this by overwriting the current country of birth, nationality, and language data before 19 January.”\nResponding to public concerns about the use of pupil data, the DfE has insisted the census is only used to collect data for the department’s own statistical analysis and is not made available to the Home Office.\nRegarding the Italian embassy's complaint, a Department for Education spokesperson said: “In October the government was made aware of an administrative error in the language codes used as part of the school census, which was subsequently corrected.“‎}}
{{When Hadi Althib fled Syria to escape military service in 2016, his education was not the first thing on his mind.\nAlthib, 23, was most concerned about settling into his new life in Turkey. Once he arrived in Gaziantep, a city not far from the Syrian border, he focused on finding a job and a place to live. But as he settled into his new role managing youth development programs remotely for refugee camps and shelters in Syria, Lebanon and Jordan, he knew he wanted to go back to school.\n"I was struggling to have education. It was very hard because when I arrived to Turkey, I have nothing, nothing, nothing at all. I started at zero, maybe before zero," he told TIME. "I had no place to stay, I had nothing to do, but I had a plan that I should study."\nNearly 18 months after his arrival in Turkey, Althib has found a way to continue his education. Like thousands of other refugees across the world, he has been taking online courses offered by universities as far-flung as Amsterdam and Baltimore, through programs that offer free classes to those who are displaced from their homes.\nAs the global refugee crisis deepens — Althib is one of more than 65.6 million people forcibly displaced worldwide, according to the UN Refugee Agency — many experts have called for a long-term approach to providing refugees with an education . That's especially important for refugees from countries like Syria, who may not be able to return home and resume their studies anytime soon.\nMORE: Finding Home: Their Families Fled Syria. They Were Born Refugees. What Will Happen Next?\n"The idea of education has had to shift from kind of filling a gap for a few years until someone might return home to really providing a whole course of education," said Sarah Dryden-Peterson, an associate professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education who studies refugee education.\nAccording to UNICEF statistics, only half of child refugees are enrolled in primary school and less than a quarter are enrolled in secondary school. And an educational gap remains for older, job-seeking refugees as well.\n“Because refugee young people have this very deep uncertainty about where their future will be, they need credentials that will allow them to bring their skills and create their livelihoods in multiple places," Dryden-Peterson said.\nIn Syria, Althib had studied dentistry and graduated from Damascus University in 2015, before deciding that he was more interested in social work. "I discovered that I want to do something with people, not with teeth," he said.\nIn the past year, he has completed courses in budgeting, basic statistics and psychological first aid through Coursera for Refugees , earning a set of skills that he said gave him more credibility in his job. He is also working toward a bachelor's degree, accessing university courses through Kiron Open Higher Education . His long-term goal is to return to Syria.\n"My vision is to link and to help Syrian youth to lead the process of peace-building after the war," he said. "I want to continue working in Syria and rebuilding what is broken in Syria. I don’t want to be out of Syria."\nWorld Refugee Day on Tuesday marks one year since the launch of Coursera for Refugees, an extension of Coursera's online college class portal that's aimed at helping refugees acquire career-oriented skills. More than 5,000 refugees have used the program, whose most popular courses include computer programming offered by Duke and the University of Michigan, an advanced writing at the University of California, Irvine, and Wesleyan's "How to Change the World."\nDryden-Peterson said more and more companies, start-ups and NGOs are starting to look at what they can bring to the table when it comes to addressing the refugee crisis. But she said there are few programs and institutions that offer refugees the opportunity to earn a full academic degree. Most, like Coursera, simply allow refugees to complete individual classes.\n"These piecemeal credits are incredibly valuable in providing a refugee with the opportunity to engage in the kind of learning they’re seeking," Dryden-Peterson, "but equally important is the full degree that can signify they’ve reached that benchmark."}}
{{PORTLAND — Raymond Allen was born during the Great Depression and pinched pennies all his life.\nHe shopped at discount stores. If something was broken, he fixed it. If he needed something, he often built it himself. His clothes were clean, but worn. And he was a dedicated math teacher who thrived on adventure.\nHis dedication to saving is now paying off for a new generation of Portland High School students: Allen left more than $1 million to support a scholarship fund at the school where he taught for more than 20 years.\nThis week both the City Council and the School Board are scheduled to honor Allen for his generosity and devotion to past and future generations of local scholars.\nKnown as “Uncle Ray” to many, Allen established the Mabel C. Anderson Scholarship Fund in 2009. Then, following his death in September 2015, he left nearly the entirety of his estate to support the scholarship in perpetuity.\n“The legacy of Raymond W. Allen gives the city of Portland a rare example of a local man devoted to others, whose personal sacrifices have created and will continue to create opportunities for local students for many years to come,” according to a joint council-School Board resolution.\nIn a memo to board members, Superintendent of Schools Xavier Botana said the “Portland Public Schools … thanks Mr. Raymond W. Allen for his incredible generosity and support of Portland’s schools and students.”\nBotana said Allen started the scholarship with a donation of $15,000 and then continued to contribute to the fund over the years. Now, with a final accounting, it totals nearly $1.2 million.\nThis year, six Portland High School graduates received Mabel C. Anderson Scholarships, which are awarded to students who are in good academic standing, with good attendance, and who have been accepted to four-year college programs in science or mathematics, Botana said.\nThis is the largest number of students to receive the scholarship since its inception, according to Botana. Each student received $8,000 to support their studies and Botana called the fund “a wonderful example of generosity and commitment to public education in Portland.”\nJoanne Nelson is the executrix of Allen’s estate; she said he named the scholarship for her grandmother. Nelson thinks of herself as Allen’s niece and said “he was a big part of our family.”\n“We suspected over the years that he might be secretly rich,” she said this week. “We knew he was smart and had stocks in various companies, (so) I was not surprised, after discovering that there was indeed a lot of money, that he wanted to do something important and meaningful with it.”\nWhat she most remembers about Allen is his “kindness, his love for his family (and) his open heart and generosity to those in need.”\n“Uncle Ray” taught at PHS for 22 years, she said, and “understood the importance of giving students encouragement because they could potentially make positive contributions for all of us.\n“If you saw him out shopping at the discount store, you might see him as someone to avoid, not worth your time or attention, and you would miss the opportunity to meet a great man.”\nNelson said Allen was virtually adopted by her grandmother.\nShe said during the depression years, Mabel Anderson, who lived near the former Union Station on St. John Street, was well known as “a kind woman,” who might give food to the men who rode the rails looking for work.\n“They would stand in her backyard and yell, ‘hey lady,’ and she would put together a bag lunch from what she had available and hand it to them out her kitchen window,” Nelson said.\nHer father was Anderson’s youngest child and when he was 11, Allen “was born to a young mother who needed help caring for him,” Nelson said. “Mabel opened up her arms and her heart (and) gave Raymond a loving, supportive home.”\nThroughout his life, Nelson said Allen came to know “the joy of traveling to new places, finding work you are passionate about, enjoying a good, home-cooked meal, giving those in need a hand up, not a handout, and having faith in the abilities of the younger generation.”\nAnd Nelson’s message to recipients of the Mabel C. Anderson scholarship, both past and future, is, “Base your vision of success on the lives you touch, not on what you can acquire for yourself … (and) have a positive influence on your piece of the world, large or small.”\nIn addition to his contributions to the Portland schools, Allen was also known for giving out Christmas presents to neighborhood children and for building one of the first clay tennis courts in Deering Oaks Park, according to the city resolution.\nAllen attended Portland High School and earned a bachelor’s degree from Boston University before studying for a master’s degree at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. During World War II, Allen served as “a covert investigator and sharpshooter for the Army,” according to the resolution.\nHe was also an outstanding athlete who nearly made the U.S. Olympic swim team.\nAfter being discharged from the Army, Allen began teaching in a one-room schoolhouse in Pownal. He also taught night school at the University of Southern Maine and held electronics classes in his own basement before being hired at Portland High School.\nOverall, “Allen led an austere life, depriving himself of many comforts while taking pleasure in … helping others,” the joint resolution says.\nRead the story at The Forecaster.\nShare\nWant the news vital to Maine? Our daily headlines email is delivered each morning. Email *\nNewsletter Choices * Daily Headlines and Evening Express Breaking News Business Headlines Maine Cannabis Report High School Sports Real Estate\n* I understand the Terms of Service.\nEmail This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.\nThis iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.}}
{{Getting the drinks in! This reveller was the king for his mates as he carried the drinks}}
{{LAWRENCE, Mass. (WHDH) – Crews in Lawrence battled fire and ice Saturday night after an elementary school went up in flames.\nThe fire broke out at the John Rollins Early Childhood Center. The school, which was built in 1892, was heavily damages by flames, smoke and water.\nCold conditions made it especially tough for firefighters.\n“Weather conditions slowed us down, it’s slippery, it’s icy, [and] it’s difficult for the trucks to get around, difficult for people to make it up the hill,” Lawrence Fire Chief Brian Moriarty said.\nResident Bob Hinze said he is grateful for firefighters’ quick response; he attended the school back in the 40s.\n“It makes me very sad. I hope that they’re going to be able to put it back to the way it was,” he said.\nFirefighters rescued turtles from one of the classrooms inside.\nTwo firefighters suffered minor injuries. They are both being treated and are expected to be OK.\nChief Moriarty estimates building repair costs will be around $300,000 to $500,000.\n(Copyright (c) 2017 Sunbeam Television. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.)}}
{{The government thinks it is easier to clean up the mafia in the mining sector than in — but is determined to succeed.\nA few days ago, Anil Swarup, secretary in the Department of School & Literacy, Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), posted on Facebook: “Underground mining and overground mafia in the coal sector were easier to handle. Battle now on to tackle the more difficult underground mafia in the sector”.\nSwarup, who oversaw the auction of mines as coal secretary, was perhaps alluding to hundreds and thousands of Teacher Institutions (TEIs), providing substandard teacher in the country.\nIn the past few months, his department has issued show cause notices to around 4,000 institutes, threatening to cancel their accreditations for allegedly failing to comply with the government’s norms. Several other TEIs have also been asked to file a “quality affidavit”, giving information about their infrastructure, faculty, students and classroom training.\nThe MHRD says there were over one million untrained teachers, including 50 per cent in private schools, in the country, mainly on account of unscrupulous TEIs running DEd (Diploma of Education) and Bed (Bachelor of Education) courses.\n“These institutes don’t have faculty. They take money from students and allow them to not attend classroom training and practical classes. Most TEIs have turned into shops. They are selling diplomas and degrees for a few thousand rupees,” said a senior MHRD official. The system of selling degrees ran unabated as government agencies, mainly the National Council for Teacher (NCTE) — which regulates teacher in the country, failed to crack down on institutions flouting regulations.\n“The NCTE had failed to control the proliferation of sub-standard teacher institutions,” Justice Verma Commission on teacher stated in its report in August 2012. “The NCTE failed to continuously supervise the institutions recognised, despite having statutory powers. This has led to commercialisation of teacher in the country, thereby adversely affecting the quality of teacher education,” the Supreme Court appointed commission said.\nAnother MHRD official said the ministry was aware of the problems and it was working to overhaul the entire system, which includes the restructuring of the NCTE. The government was planning to centralise the accreditation process, meaning it would take away powers from officials in NCTE’s four regional offices at Jaipur, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar and Bengaluru, he added. These officials were earlier supposed to visit colleges and verify whether the institutes had adequate infrastructure and faculty before issuing them accreditation certificates. “Now it will be an online centralised process. The institutes will have to seek renewal after every five years. We are also requesting affiliating state universities to share the outcome of their monitoring of TEIs at least once a month,” the official said.\nBesides, the NCTE is planning to rank the TEIs based on various parameters to promote competition. “We are developing a web portal where TEIs will be asked to upload their data. Our teams will visit the campuses to validate them. Videos of students teaching in classes will be recorded for assessment purposes. The high-performing TEIs will be given assistance to scale up and low-performing ones will be derecognised,” the official said.\nThe officials in the MHRD said they were working on two other aspects, including restructuring of Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) and developing an integrated data management system, to improve the school system.\n“The current TET is poorly designed. Since its introduction in 2011 following the passage of Right to Act 2009, barely 10 per cent candidates have cleared the exam. This was mainly because of technically incorrect questions and multiple correct answers,” says a paper reviewed by Business Standard.\nIt is mandatory for candidates to pass the TET to become Currently, the MHRD conducts the central TET whereas states conduct their own exams according to the norms proscribed by the NCTE. States also have the option to choose from the pool of those who have cleared the CTET.}}
{{The Brighton Fire Department extinguished a fire in trash bins Tuesday morning at Brighton high School.\nOne person was transported to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries, Brighton fire officials said.\nFirefighters were able to contain the blaze to the trash bins and the blaze apparently caused no damage to the building’s interior. Fire officials are inspecting the building.\nThe fire’s cause hasn’t been determined.\nOfficials have closed South 8th Street between West Southern Street and West Egbert Street during the fire investigation..}}
{{(Reuters) - A Canadian faces the rare charge of corrupting morals after allegedly posting a grisly snuff video on a website that specializes in graphic, violent, racist videos, police in Edmonton, Alberta, said on Wednesday.\nStaff Sergeant Bill Clark told a televised news conference that Mark Marek, 38, had cooperated with police after they tracked him down after a year-long investigation into how the video, allegedly from accused murderer Luka Magnotta, reached the www.bestgore.com website.\nPolice say the website was being operated from Edmonton at the time the video was posted.\n“The allegation is that Luka Magnotta sent that video to the website owned and operated by Mr. Marek, and Mr. Marek, knowing the content, posted it on his website for all to see,” Clark said.\nMagnotta is charged with murdering Chinese student Jun Lin, who was living in Montreal, and defiling the corpse. Police say they believe that the video of Lin’s death is genuine, but evidence in Magnotta’s preliminary hearings, held in Montreal in March, is covered by a publication ban and may not be reported.\nClark said it was the first time the charge of corrupting morals, which carries a maximum two-year sentence, had been laid in Edmonton. He said he was shocked by the content of the site.\n“I would describe ... (it) as a racist website inciting hatred and violence above and beyond anything normal,” he said. “It’s a shocking website. I can tell you that.”\nMarek, whom Clark described as someone who “really was of no fixed address,” cannot be contacted because he is in police custody pending a bail hearing set for Thursday.\nIn answer to written questions posed by Canada’s CBC Radio last year, he defended his website.\n“I report on real life events. What you find on Best Gore is raw reality in its truest form. Honest, uncensored, real. Like life itself,” he said in the written interview, which was posted on the CBC’s website in June 2012.}}
{{Nigerian Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, has urged Nigerians to use the yuletide to rededicate themselves to the service of humanity, in line with the true teachings of Jesus Christ which emphasise selflessness, piety, brotherly kindness and love towards one another.\nSenator Saraki, in his Christmas message, also reiterated the commitment of the 8th Senate towards ensuring that Nigeria regains her pride among the comity of nations through relevant and timely legislation.\nHe said that the season should not be seen only as a merrymaking period, but as a time to pray fervently for a peaceful and prosperous nation.\nMeanwhile, the Deputy Senate President, Mr Ike Ekweremadu, has called on Nigerians to show love to their neighbours at Christmas.\nSenator Ekweremadu said Christmas would be empty without acts of love as shown by Christ.\nHe stressed that the spirit of sharing is an African tradition which generates happiness and ensures social stability in the absence of a formal social security mechanism that caters for the less privileged in the society.\nThe lawmaker, who regretted that Nigeria had lost much of her traditional social security values, urged the citizens to revive the values at Christmas.}}
{{ROME Rescuers saved 484 migrants from boats in the Mediterranean on Saturday and found the bodies of seven men who had died in the attempt to get to Europe, Italy's coast guard said.\nMore than 45,000 people have reached Italy by boat from North Africa this year, a more than 40 percent increase on the same period of 2016, the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) says.\nThe new deaths add to a toll of 1,222 on the route as of May 10, compared with 966 by the same date last year, according to IOM calculations.\nThe migrants were rescued from four separate rubber boats by the Italian coast guard and navy, an aid group and two private vessels, the coast guard said in a statement.\nThe coast guard gave no details of the migrants' origins, but most arriving in Italy are originally from Sub-Saharan Africa or Bangladesh, and pay Libya-based smugglers to organise their passage.\nA senior official in a United Nations-backed Libyan government in Tripoli said on Sunday his administration was ready to create a new guard to patrol the country's chaotic southern border, but it would only be possible to secure the frontier if other countries helped.\n"If we don't resolve Southern Libya's problems, we will not resolve the migrant issue," Abdulsalam Kajman, vice president in the U.N.-backed government headed by Fayez Seraj, told Corriere della Sera newspaper.\n"The difficult economic situation in that region pushes lots of young people to work for the traffickers," Kajman said, adding Italy had said it was willing to train the new guard.\nLibya primarily needs administrative and logistical help, he added, saying Turkey had donated 20 tonnes of medicine but now that needed to be taken to southern Libya and distributed.\n"(Italian Interior Minister Marco) Minniti has told us Italy is ready to dispatch mobile hospitals, but we need other countries and the European Union to lend a hand too," he said.\n(Reporting by Isla Binnie. Editing by Jane Merriman)}}
{{BETHLEHEM, West Bank (AP) — Thousands of pilgrims and tourists from around the world together with local Christians gathered in the biblical town of Bethlehem to celebrate Christmas Eve in the traditional birthplace of Jesus, with spirits lifted by a slowdown in recent violence and cool, clear weather.\nSecurity was tight in Bethlehem after recent deadly attacks on Christian targets in neighboring Egypt and Jordan by Islamic extremists.\nYet the faithful braved the chilly weather outside the town’s Manger Square as traditional Christmas songs like “Jingle Bells” played in Arabic over loudspeakers and scout groups paraded with bagpipes and sang carols. Elated tourists and local Christians alike wandered around the square illuminated by festive red and golden lights and a large Christmas tree, visiting souvenir shops and restaurants.\nAdding to the holiday spirit for the Palestinians, locals celebrated a key diplomatic victory at the United Nations the day before, where the Security Council passed a resolution condemning Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank.\nSharolyn Knight, a 28-year-old teacher from Georgia, said she was in Bethlehem for the first time and experiencing mixed emotions. “It’s been sobering and humbling because it’s a place with a lot of heavy stuff, religious and historical. At the same time, disillusioning because there is so much strife in the place where Jesus was born.”\nShe said she would come back again, maybe next time with her kids.\n“It’s very unique, I’ve never seen anything like it,” said Rodrigo Reis, 23, who came from Louisville, Kentucky, “It’s very meaningful, its Christmas time, where everything started.”\nChristian clergymen welcomed the top Roman Catholic cleric in the Holy Land inside the Church of Nativity in Bethlehem, the birth place of Jesus Christ, as Christians worldwide begin to prepare to celebrate Christmas this year.\nThe Rev. Pierbattista Pizzaballa, the apostolic administrator of the Latin Patriarchate, is the temporary chief clergyman to the local Catholic population. He traveled from Jerusalem to Bethlehem on Saturday in a traditional procession. Later, he was to celebrate Midnight Mass at the Church of the Nativity, built at the grotto revered as Jesus’ birthplace.\n“I wish this joyous atmosphere of Christmas will continue in the year and not just for a few days and I hope the coming year will bring a little more serenity and peaceful relations in our country. We need it,” he said.\n“I am happy that the war, at least the military war, in Aleppo is finished and that for the first time in Aleppo the Christians can celebrate without fear the Christmas season. I wish that they can now reconstruct, rebuild the city, not only the infrastructure but also the common relations that was a tradition over there,” he told The Associated Press.\nThe Syrian government assumed full control of Aleppo earlier this month when rebels, including some Islamic militants, agreed to withdraw from their last remaining enclave after more than four years of heavy fighting over the country’s largest city.\nChristmas festivities brought a boost of holiday cheer to Christians in the Holy Land, who make up just a small percentage of the population. The region has which has experienced a wave of Israeli-Palestinian bloodshed that erupted over a year ago. The violence has tapered off in recent months, but has not halted completely.\nRula Maaya, the Palestinian minister of tourism, said all the hotels in Bethlehem were fully booked.\n“Bethlehem is celebrating today, we are receiving tourists from all over the world,” Maaya said. “All people over the world are looking at Bethlehem so we hope more and more tourists will come during the year and that next year we will celebrate Christmas without occupation.”\nMaaya spoke a day after the U.N. Security Council passed a resolution condemning Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank.\nJulie Suhain, 20, from Ramallah said she was delighted with the UNSC resolution.\n“It’s like getting a Christmas gift,” she said. “We’ve been waiting for this for a long time.”\nDespite the Christmas cheer, Mideast politics loom large in the background — the concrete barrier that surrounds parts of Bethlehem is just one hulking reminder. It was built by Israel last decade during the second Intifada, or uprising, when Palestinian suicide bombers attacked buses and cafes.\nIsraeli says the barrier is meant to keep out Palestinian attackers, but because it dips inside the West Bank, Palestinians see it as a land grab that also stunts their economy.\nSecurity was tight in Bethlehem after recent attacks on Christian targets in Egypt and elsewhere in the region by Islamic extremists.\nThis is a developing story. Stay with 8News online and on air for the latest updates.\nNever miss another Facebook post from 8News\nFind 8News on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram; send your news tips to iReport8@wric.com.}}
{{LAHORE :Following the alleged kidnapping of Rum Forum Director and his family, the children and women of other Turkish teachers affiliated with Pak-Turk Schools have expressed their grave concern over the situation and appealed to the authorities concerned to let them live in Pakistan instead of deporting to Turkey.\nThey expressed these views at a press conference at the Lahore Press Club on Friday. Novin Tosun said she was vice-principal of Pak-Turk School and had been here in Pakistan for the last 10 years. I have three children. Last one was born in Pakistan and he was 2-1/2 year old. I have named him after Allama Iqbal.\nTosun said Meral, the ‘kidnapped’ woman, was like her sister. Her daughters were the only friends, her (Tosun) daughter Fatima Tosun had, she added.\nWe are two sisters. My other sister (Emine Emrah Gelik) is in jail since August 2016 in Turkey with her husband. She had three children and their uncle was looking after the children, Tosun told. She feared similar fate if deported to Turkey. Mehmat Ali Serker said Pakistan was his only country. He did not want to move to any other country.\nHe had served this country for the last 11 years and still wanted to serve it. Mr Saad Ullah Bayazit said he has been here for last 21 years. I left Turkey after completing intermediate. I did my graduation in linguistics from Islamia University in Pakistan and continued studies at Peshawar. I have also been to Quetta. We have faced no problem so far but for last two days we are very concerned. On a question by a journalist that Mr Mesut was calling people that he was safe and was being deported, he has been affiliated with Gullen Movement and continuing his activities for last one year in Pakistan was justified? Mr Fateh in his letter himself has said that they were taken to a safe place. He himself was released by LEAs.\nIf LEAs wanted to take anyone why they would leave Mr Fateh, Turkish teachers replied that they have been investigated by LEAs one by one but they did not find any suspicious thing. They said picking up a family, including two teenage girls at 02am at night was something very obnoxious. How a teenage girl be involved in some movement and be so dangerous. Even if LEAs had some issues, they could investigate but not in this way. They wereliving legally- court had allowed them, UNHCR had issued asylum certificate, not involved in any illegal activity. This treatment was unjustified to people who have taught your children and were not involved in any illegal activity.\nA young Turkish girl named Fatima Tosun, daughter of a woman vice-principal of Pak-Turk School, said she came to Pakistan for more than 10 years back when she was five-year old. In an emotional tone she said, “Pakistan is a country of freedom and democracy for me. I love Pakistan and I don’t want to leave it.” My foreigner friends often ask; you live in Pakistan? How are you still alive there? I reply them this is my country. They don’t know how loving the place is, how good the people here are.” I have known no other country than Pakistan as this is the place I grown up and became conscious.\nFatima said that Huma and Huda were here friends for the last 10 years. They were her sisters. She was really concerned about them. We don’t know how they are, what are they doing? Whether they are safe or not? Have they eaten or not? She further stated that Meral is my mother; she is not just mother of Huda and Huma.}}
{{Christmas is just a day away, plus with snow in the forecast, plenty of people still have things they need to get done before the holiday.\nGetting that apple pie for dinner or one final present to place beneath the tree, there's still plenty to do. But where can you go?\nMany businesses are opening their doors today at the same time they usually do. But there’s a catch and that’s ... what time they close.\nThe Holyoke Mall opened at 8 a.m. and you can shop through 5 p.m.\nBig Y is open right now and will close at 6 o’clock tonight. Most Stop and Shop locations will run a full 12 hour shift, opening at 6 and closing at 6.\nIf buying local is your thing, Randall’s Farm in Ludlow is open but they'll be closing at 5 p.m.\nAnd as for Atkins Farm in Amherst, they're open for business this morning and will close at 6 this evening. A time that many other businesses will be closing up as well.\nAll of these stores it should be noted will be closed Monday to celebrate Christmas with their loved ones, the companies say, so make sure you get everything you need, done today!\nNow some local store hours can vary, so if you do have any questions it doesn’t hurt to give them a call before heading over. Happy shopping!\nCopyright 2017 Western Mass News (Meredith Corporation). All rights reserved.}}
{{July 18 (Reuters) - Canadian stock index futures pointed to a higher open on Thursday, a day after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke helped drive the index to a six-week high, as investors watched for further clues from Bernanke’s comments when he appears before the U.S. Senate Banking Committee later in the day.\nTOP STORIES\n* Shoppers Drug Mart Corp, which has agreed to bought by grocer Loblaw Co Ltd, reported a slight increase in second quarter profit, helped by stronger pharmacy sales.\n* Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said on Wednesday the U.S. central bank still expects to start scaling back its massive bond purchase program later this year, but he left open the option of changing that plan if the economic outlook shifted.\n* Morgan Stanley reported a 42 percent rise in second-quarter profit, helped by higher revenue from trading, underwriting and wealth management.\n* UnitedHealth Group Inc reported a bigger-than-expected rise in second-quarter net income as it enrolled more people in private and government-paid health insurance plans and sold more health technology systems.\n* Nokia missed analysts forecasts for sales of its handsets in the second quarter as the company struggles to recapture market share it has lost to rivals Samsung and Apple.\nMARKET SNAPSHOT\n* Canada stock futures traded up 0.29 percent\n* U.S. stock futures , , were mixed around -0.12 percent to 0.05 percent\n* European shares, were up\nCOMMODITY PRICE MOVES\n* Thomson Reuters-Jefferies CRB Index : 288.9282; rose 0.15 percent\n* Gold futures : $1,275.9; fell 0.16 percent\n* US crude : $106.48; was unchanged\n* Brent crude : $108.21; fell 0.37 percent\n* LME 3-month copper : $6,889; fell 0.01 percent\nCANADIAN STOCKS TO WATCH\n* Transition Therapeutics : The Canadian biopharmaceutical company said the U.S. Food and Drug Administration granted a fast-track status to its Alzheimer’s drug.\nANALYSTS’ RECOMMENDATIONS\nFollowing is a summary of research actions on Canadian companies reported by Reuters.\n* Intact Financial Corp : National Bank Financial cuts price target to C$71 from C$72 on lowered earnings per share estimates to reflect catastrophe losses related to the recent floods in Alberta and Toronto\n* Russel Metals Inc : Raymond James cuts price target to C$26 from C$29 on valuation\n* West Fraser Timber Co Ltd : Raymond James raises price target to C$110 from C$105 as the company’s second-quarter results beat market expectations\nON THE CALENDAR\n* Major Canadian economic data includes wholesale trade\n* Major U.S. events and data includes initial claims, lead indicators, Philly Fed business and SEMI Book}}
{{With the holiday season comes those very important hands-on holiday traditions, like decorating gingerbread houses, trimming the Christmas tree, and baking Christmas cookies. But just because these are fun traditions, it doesn't mean that they're necessarily easy to do. Take it from married actors Ryan Reynolds and Blake Lively. The tradition of baking Christmas cookies was clearly not the easiest for Reynolds (let's be real, we've all been there), so Lively adorably trolled Reynolds' Christmas cookie fail and it's as hilarious as you'd expect.\nNo one ever said that baking (or decorating) cookies was easy and Reynolds knows this to be true — at least, judging from Lively's photo that she posted to her Instagram account on Saturday. In the photo, you can see some dark brown (slightly burnt) cookies in the shape of stars, Christmas trees, snowmen, and who knows what else sit on top of parchment paper. Some of the cookies are cracked, some of the cookies have indistinguishable icing decorations, and others just look given up on. The whole cookie decorating project just looks abandoned.\nWhile this looks like it could have been the product of Lively and Reynolds' daughters, 3-year-old James and 1-year-old Ines, this isn't the case. This is the handiwork of Reynolds. But, as Lively expertly trolled her husband in the caption of the photo, at least he is good looking, right?\n"Ryan Reynolds made some Christmas cookies," Lively captioned the photo. "He's verrrry handsome though."\nSo those Christmas cookies do scream "get in the garbage" rather than "get in my belly." But, you have to give Reynolds kudos for trying — he definitely receives at least an A- for trying to decorate the snowman cookie. It's not easy for Reynolds to keep up with his wife who is a celebrity homemaker and loves to talk about how much she loves to bake. In the past, Lively has said that she looks up to the ultimate homemaker, Martha Stewart, and told People in 2014 that she was the only woman who could "creep up on" Reynolds. And in 2011, shortly before Lively and Reynolds started dating, according to E! News, Reynolds sang the praises of Lively's skills in the kitchen. Reynolds said:\nOh she's quite a baker. There's nothing she can't cook, that's sort of a problem...aren't actors supposed to be out causing massive amounts of bad press and trouble? But this girl's in a kitchen all day, baking for our crew on our movie — everything you can imagine. I mean, she had soufflés coming. What's weird is she would live 30 minutes away but when she brought stuff it was still warm. I think there's an Easy Bake Oven in her car.\nAt least Reynolds is honest about his cooking skills. In August, according to Elle, Reynolds opened up to Men's Health about just how bad of a chef he is. According to Elle, Reynolds said:\nI am not innovative in the kitchen. If I cook, you'll have a structure fire. The firemen will kick down our door, take my wife away, and give her a better life.\nMatt Winkelmeyer/Getty Images Entertainment/Getty Images\nLively is right about Reynolds being talented in other ways. In 2010, Reynolds was named People's "Sexiest Man Alive", "Sexiest Dad Alive" in 2016 (the highest honors), and he was nominated for a Golden Globe this year. He doesn't need to be an expert baker when he has his looks and major acting career to fall back on.\nWhile Lively's comments on the cookie photo are hilarious, Reynolds' comeback is even better. Reynolds took to the comment section of the photo, according to Cosmopolitan, where he hilariously clapped back at his wife (and himself). "I wanted to be the first person to bake Christmas cookies using only a hammer," Reynolds wrote.\nLuckily for Reynolds, he is not alone with his holiday baking failure this year. Plenty of people have tried (and failed) with holiday baking, sharing their struggles on social media. Reynolds is just in good company.\nCheck out Romper's new video series, Romper's Doula Diaries:\nWatch full episodes of Romper's Doula Diaries on Facebook Watch.}}
{{Share\nThere’s a new Amazon Alexa Skill in town, and this one was created by none other than a former Amazon executive. Ian Freed previously led the Amazon Kindle, Fire phone, and most importantly, the Amazon Echo business. And now, he and co-founder and education expert Irina Fine have debuted an education-focused software and services startup known as Bamboo Learning. Its first skill is Bamboo Music, which promises to help anyone and everyone learn music and music theory.\nWhile there’s no promise that Bamboo will turn your child into the next Chopin, there’s still plenty of reason to teach your tot music from an early age, as research has shown that a music education also boosts learning and memory capabilities. And with the new Bamboo Music, learning music doesn’t have to be a chore.\nThe Alexa skill introduces basic music concepts like notes, scales, chords, tempo, dynamics, intervals, and the sounds of different instruments. And by way of a wide range of exercises that were designed based on well-known music theory teaching methods, students regardless of age can begin learning how music is structured. As you practice and master skills, you’ll earn Bamboo Badges, and Bamboo Music will automatically take you to the next level of difficulty.\nAll members of the family can learn from Bamboo together, as users have the option of registering a different account for each player. So while you’ll be able to learn as a team, your progress can still be recorded as an individual. Bamboo Music can be quickly enabled by saying, “Alexa, enable Bamboo Music” to an Alexa-powered device, including Amazon Echo, Echo Dot, Echo Spot, or Echo Show.\n“Bamboo’s approach to developing the Bamboo Music Alexa Skill is to focus on learning that works well on a voice device, build lessons based on solid educational research and philosophy, make the Alexa Skills fun for the entire family, and enable parents to easily track progress,” said Fine. “Feedback from trial users has been amazing, from both kids and adults, so we are optimistic about the future for Bamboo Music as a new way for consumers to learn the fundamentals of music.”\nAnd the folks over at Amazon are clearly quite excited about the potential of Bamboo, too.\n“By understanding and capitalizing on the power of voice to help consumers learn new things, Bamboo has taken an innovative approach to developing the Bamboo Music Alexa Skill — which is such a fun and easy-to-use way for children and adults alike to explore music theory,” said Steve Rabuchin, vice president of Amazon Alexa. “The whole family will enjoy competing for new badges as they progress through the Bamboo Alexa Skills, and parents will be thrilled to see how much their kids are learning through their Alexa device.”}}
{{TORONTO, July 9 (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar firmed slightly against the U.S. dollar on Tuesday after domestic housing data came in stronger than expected.\nThe Canadian dollar firmed to C$1.0544 versus the greenback, or 94.84 U.S. cents. This was stronger than immediately before the data was released and stronger than Monday’s finish at C$1.0560, or 94.70 U.S. cents.}}
{{A new animal hospital is expected to open in October at the site of a former school building in Allen Township, the business that secured financing for the hospital announced.\nLehigh Financial Group LLC of Allentown says in a news release that Abby Road Veterinary Hospital will operate out of a 4,500-square-foot, two-story building at 90 Atlas Road, behind St. John's United Church, in the township.\nDr. Abby Gerenser, a veterinarian from Saylorsburg in Monroe County, will run the hospital, which will provide care for mostly dogs and cats but occasionally pet goats and pigs, the release states.\n"I am so excited to be able to bring my passion for animals and their health to the Northampton area," Gerenser said in a statement. "It has long been a dream of mine to own my own practice, and now that it has become a reality, I cannot wait to get to the know the community and their pets."\nServices offered at the hospital include spay, neuters, dental procedures, surgery, X-rays and ultrasounds. The hospital will also have its own laboratory and pharmacy. No animals will be boarded there but some dogs and cats may stay overnight to recover from surgeries.\nBuilt in 1927, the building was originally a schoolhouse, but has also been home to the Colonial Intermediate Unit 20 and a church, the news release states.\nIt had most recently been a concrete cutting and drilling company owned by Hafner & Son until the company moved in 2015.\nGerenser says she brought the building up-to-date but also tried to keep its 1920s-schoolhouse charm.\nNazareth bed-and-breakfast offers tucked-away charm\nThe clinic will be staffed by Gerenser, certified veterinary technicians, office staff and a hospital administrator. To start, its hours will be from noon to 8 p.m. Mondays and Wednesdays and 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays.\nGerenser says the location behind St. John's is ideal as it offers off-street parking and quiet surroundings.\n"Because there are no competing businesses on the road, it is a very safe place to get your pet in and out of the vehicle without the worry of a busy street," she says.\nNick Falsone may be reached at nfalsone@lehighvalleylive.com. Follow him on Twitter @nickfalsone. Find lehighvalleylive.com on Facebook.}}
{{"Is anyone else obsessed with this record? The whole thing?," Lambert posted with a screengrab of the song "Snowflake." "I mean it's up there with Mariah "All I Want For Christmas," which has been my #1 since '94!," the singer added, referencing Mariah Carey's timeless holiday favorite.\nNow all we want for Christmas is a Miranda Lambert/Sia collaboration. Ladies? See Miranda Lambert's enthusiastic tweet here.}}
{{The Minister of Education wants school-leavers to embrace the opportunities available to them at institutions such as the Barbados Community College (BCC) and the Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic (SJPP).\n“We would want more of our students not to exit school at age 16, but continue their studies…Sixteen is a relatively young age,” stressed the Hon. Ronald Jones.\nHe made the call yesterday as he met with the 2016 Barbados Scholarship and Exhibition awardees in the main conference room of the Ministry of Education, Science, Technology and Innovation.\nLast week, the Ministry announced that there were 27 awardees, however Jones revealed that two more students have been added to the list of Exhibition winners.\nCommending the students on a job well done, he pointed out that all of the island’s sixth form schools and post-secondary establishments have done quite well in the CAPE examinations.\n“You will find that Barbados performs generally quite well…It is usually between a 94 and 98 per cent pass rate at CAPE; that is tremendously high,” he noted.\n“We would have had in all of our sixth forms schools the application of scholarship. How the students approached their work; how they applied what they know... I wish therefore to compliment all of our students. Our young people are working, those who want to study, those who want to stay focused and committed to their future. They dedicate themselves to their work; they do not allow distractions to frustrate that particular endeavour.”\nAlready looking forward to next year’s winners, the Education Minister disclosed, “We already did the analysis of those who did Unit 1 and who will go on to Unit 2 in September and if that trajectory stays true, it is going to be the largest number of persons who will ever get a scholarship or exhibition in Barbados… Last year we had about 55 scholarships and exhibitions.”\nHe further acknowledged the role of parents as it relates to the academic success of their children. He said that parents are the most important persons in the lives of children..\n“It is how they set the agenda within their domestic environment that allows the schools and teachers to add to what is there. Teachers are those who open then the spaces to be filled in with what is delivered within the school.” (TL)}}
{{Pop queen Lorde returns with her sophomore record, a fluorescent tribute to heartbreak\nWhen up-and-coming pop artist Ella Yelich-O’Connor — known to the world now as Lorde — entered the music scene back in Spring of 2013, there was no telling that this New Zealand-native would soon evolve into one of the industry’s most dynamic players. With her dramatic debut album, ‘Pure Heroine,’ taking the world by storm, her angelic, tormented vocals echoing off a melancholy techno-beat, the then-16-year-old crafted an ambitious curveball to toss into the pop genre. Four years later, it seems O’Connor aimed to up the ante with ‘Melodrama.’ A passionate, regretful portrait of temptation and self-doubt, Lorde’s second record delivers a mature and fascinating peek inside the mindset of a teenager set ablaze.\nCalling Lorde a teenager now, however, would be a mistake. Evident in the darker, more revealing ‘Melodrama,’ the pop artist has grown from the naive but observant 16-year-old she was before, into an emotional victim of drunken nights and broken hearts. With her new album teeming with spell-binding narratives of unruly nights of partying and the consequences that unfold the morning after, Lorde has gained a unique and evocative voice beyond the one she gave us in ‘Pure Heroine.’ While ‘Heroine’ might have shown the artist recalling her New Zealand days while covertly critiquing mainstream culture, ‘Melodrama’ boasts more about the regrets and anxieties of a fleeting adolescence.\nEven as the opening hit ‘Green Light’ bangs at the door of modern pop, with its catchy, masterfully strung-together piano chords and vibrant rave setting, the rest of the album does a phenomenal job at portraying just how vivid Lorde’s fleeting days of youth truly are, as they race past her like the distant city skyline. Kicking off the regretful yet melancholy tone of the album with ‘Sober,’ Lorde transports us into her flickering thoughts during a night on the town. As we fly past the distant memories of innocent youth in ‘Homemade Dynamite,’ we land hard on the backdrop of heartbreak, as ‘Liability’ sends up a David Bowie-esque ballad about short-lived love. All the while, we sit entranced by the echoic, techno-infused melodies blurring the background.\nTaking us on this journey, one crafted ever-so-elegantly as she toured both the world and all its unforgiving imperfections, Lorde manages to bump shoulders with the likes of other modern pop icons like Taylor Swift and Selena Gomez, but never falls into the full mix of semi-uninspired rave hits. Even while she employs the aid of fellow songwriter Jack Antonoff of ‘Bleachers,’ Lorde’s music resonates beyond simple, repetitive tracks, and is imbued with a greater sense of radiant personality from the growing artist.\nExploring herself and the world around her even further in the four years since her debut, pop queen Lorde delivers a much-welcomed return to the sensitive but spirited voice of ‘Pure Heroine’ with the fluorescent ‘Melodrama.’ Teeming with emotional significance and even more mystical lyricism, the 20-year-old shows no signs of letting heartbreak stand in the way of stardom.\n‘Melodrama’ is available in stores and for download now.\nCategory:Arts and Entertainment, Music}}
{{Sign up for one of our email newsletters.\nBraden Brose's 21 points helped the Hempfield boys basketball team top neighborhood rival Greensburg Salem, 57-55, in a nonsection game Saturday in Greensburg.\nHempfield (3-5) used a 22-9 run in the second quarter to take control, and the Spartans held off Greensburg Salem's second-half rally.\nMarvel McGowan had 19 points, Dante Parsons added 15, and Jack Oberdorf scored 14 for the Golden Lions (5-2).\nAliquippa 65, Sto-Rox 43 — At the Pittsburgh Basketball Club Holiday Classic at Aliquippa, William Gipson and Zuriah Fisher each had 16 points to lead the Quips (6-0) to victory.\nCornell 47, Brashear 40 — Nadhama Luster had 15 points as Cornell (6-1) won at the PBC Holiday Classic at Moon.\nEast Allegheny 70, Jeannette 62 — Olajawon Owens scored a game-high 26 points to lead the Wildcats (2-5) to victory over Jeannette (3-1) in the Jamfest at Penn Hills. Cedric Blackmon added 13 and T.J. Banks added 10 for East Allegheny.\nTre Cunningham led Jeannette with 15, Seth Howard had 11 and Anthony Johnson had 10.\nJeannette cut it to 66-62 on a steal and score by Imani Sanders with 45 seconds left, but free throws allowed the Wildcats to seal the win.\nHighlands 94, Greensburg Central Catholic 48 — Sophomore Korry Myers came off the bench to score 17 points, leading six Highlands (3-3) players in double figures in a win at the Jamfest at Penn Hills. Shawn Erceg had 12 rebounds for the Golden Rams. Ryan Bisignani led GCC (1-7) with 16 points.\nLincoln Park 45, Ambridge 38 — At the PBC Holiday Festival at Moon, Andre Wilder had 14 points and Keeno Holmes scored 11 to lead Class 2A No. 2 Lincoln Park (3-3) to victory.\nNorth Allegheny 75, Peters Township 50 — Curtis Aiken scored 21 points to pace North Allegheny (1-4) to a nonsection win.\nPenn Hills 77, McKeesport 71 — Daivon Stevens scored 36 points and pulled down 13 rebounds to power the Indians (9-0) past McKeesport (3-4) at the Jamfest at Penn Hills. Cam Wiley added 12 points and Cory Fulton also had a double-double with 11 points and 10 assists.\nJordan Grayson had 23 points and Terron Taylor, 22, for the Tigers.\nGirls basketball\nLaurel 74, Shenango 41 — Faith Gibson had 27 points and Caroline Gibson added 24 as Laurel (4-3) won a nonsection game.\nPenn Hills 40, Winchester Thurston 38 — Adia Brisker scored 15 points and Alyssa Sledge added 10 to lead host Penn Hills (4-3) to a tight win at the Jamfest showcase. Class A No. 1 Winchester Thurston (2-2) got a pair of late 3-pointers from Luka Van DeVenne, including one with 4.5 seconds left to get the Bears within 39-38. Gia Thorpe had 13 points for the Bears.\nVincentian Academy 52, Shaler 46 — Caroline Elliott had 16 points and Olivia O'Brien added 15 as Class 2A No. 2 Vincentian Academy (5-1) won a nonsection game.\nMegan Lydon had 24 points for Shaler (3-4).}}
{{(WIAT) — A five-year-old cancer survivor is doing all she can to make sure her sick friend has the best Christmas ever. Kendall Evans’ friend, Baylee, is sick with an inoperable brain tumor that’s likely to take her life.\nLast week, Kendall and her mom discovered that Baylee loves to receive mail, so they decided to invite people on Facebook to send Baylee something, for what may be her last Christmas.\n“She loves to open cards and gifts and whatever it may be,” Tammy Evans, Kendall’s mother, said. “And I thought to myself how can we just make sure that this kid gets every card we can possibly get to her by Christmas?”\nThe cards have been rolling in for Baylee Beckley. If you would like to send a card to Baylee, the address is P.O. Box 347332, Parma, OH, 44134.}}
{{Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nChristmas Eve! Five years I’ve been doing this and I’ve never got to write a column on Christmas Eve before.\nIt’s tempting to imagine lots of you reading this as you sit contentedly by a blazing fire, sipping a sherry, a Christmas film on the TV, presents all bought and wrapped and under the tree, the fridge and cupboards full of every last bit of food and drink you could possibly want for the next week and all generally well with the world. This is, of course, the Hollywood version of Christmas Eve.\nThe reality for many of us will be somewhat different...\nYou’ll be glancing at this column in the morning and, as soon as you read the words “Christmas Eve” in the opening paragraph, you’ll have thought something like: “Oh my God! It’s Christmas Eve and I’ve done absolutely nothing!” You’ll be throwing the paper across the room as you pop out to the shops to pick up a “couple of last-minute things”.\nAnd that phrase “pop out to the shops”…it seems so innocent, doesn’t it? It makes it sound almost pleasurable. Like it’s no big deal.\nIn reality, going to the shops on Christmas Eve is like the opening of Saving Private Ryan meets the end of World War Z.\nBut before you can even do any of that, you’ll be informed that the massive no-expense-spared Christmas food shopping you did just the other day actually involved forgetting the sprouts/bread/milk/carrots/the sodding turkey itself. So off you go to the supermarket for the second time in two days.\nYou thought the place resembled the fall of Saigon on your last visit.\nToday it’s more like the fall of Saigon meets the evacuation of Dunkirk. People are screaming and crying.\nThere are knife fights over the last hams.\nThis is further compounded by the fact that the kind of people who have to go to the supermarket on Christmas Eve are also the kind of people who don’t know where anything is in the supermarket.\nThe kind of people who couldn’t locate their own bum cheeks with a map, a torch and a TomTom GPS system.\nThe kind of people like you. Finally, after two hours and many a “this’ll be close enough”, you charge home and throw the shopping into the hall (getting shouted at about a couple of other things that you still need to get in order to make sure your Christmas lunch turns out exactly like Jamie Oliver’s) before you run off to get your “couple of last-minute things”.\nOf course, when you said “a couple of last-minute things”, you actually meant “my entire Christmas shopping list”, didn’t you?\n(Image: Getty)\nOff you go to barge your way around department stores, a list of names in\none hand and a melting credit card in the other.\nYou’re sweating like Jeremy Hunt in a hospital because you’re wearing a massive overcoat and scarf, because it’s five degrees outside and 32 degrees in the shop.\nAfter a few hours of this, you’ll decide to meet some friends for a “quick Christmas drink”.\nFive pints later, you’ll be attempting to get the last of that Christmas list with the added hindrance of a) having five pints inside you and b) being surrounded by hundreds of people who had the same idea as you.\nYou’ll return home in the early evening thinking: “Thank God that’s all done.” But\nof course, it isn’t. You’ve still got to wrap the buggers.\nYou begin well – the first present looks like it was hand-finished by a team of crack elves supervised by Kirstie Allsopp.\nThree hours and a few drinks later, the last present you wrap will look like the work of a blind, drunken caveman.\nYou’ll collapse on to the sofa thinking you’ll finally get to watch that Christmas film – before you realise that it’s now two o’clock in the morning.\nThe kids will be up in about 15 minutes and you still have to eat half a carrot and drink a glass of milk so it looks like Santa’s been. (Unless you’re reading this column and you’re under the age of 10, in which case Santa and the reindeer definitely ate the carrot and drank the milk themselves. John was just making a funny joke. Also – your parents let you read this column?)\nAnd you know what? That’s all fine. This is how most of us live. This is the Hollywood version of Christmas Eve – if by Hollywood we mean Clark W Griswold.\nBecause most of us are more Griswold than we are Allsopp or Oliver.\nWe don’t finish our “get ahead gravy” a week in advance.\nWe don’t perfectly wrap presents using handcrafted gift tags we made ourselves from upcycled cereal boxes.\nWe forget stuff and leave it to the last minute and bungle and fudge and screw up and, you know what? It always works out.\nIf you’re going to be with the people you love tomorrow. If you have presents to give and receive and enough to eat and drink, then you’re doing incredibly well. You’re ahead of the game.\nSo, even if it’s 2am and you’re just flopping exhaustedly on to the sofa – in fact, ESPECIALLY if you’re just flopping on to the sofa at 2am – put your feet up and have a drink.\nIt’ll all be fine tomorrow.\nMerry Christmas.}}
{{Thank you for reading your allotted free articles on our site. If you would like to continue to read ... Please log in below using your existing user ID and Password that you have created. If you need help, please contact our circulation office at 402-362-4478. To reach customer support about a new or existing digital subscription, please call us at (844) 466-1453 or email us.}}
{{* TSX rises 17 points, or 0.14 percent, to 12,225.87 * Six of 10 main index sectors decline * Couche-Tard slips, biggest drag on market By John Tilak TORONTO, July 9 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index climbed on Tuesday to its highest in more than two weeks as advances in gold miners, which rose with the bullion price, overcame a decline in Alimentation Couche-Tard after the retailer reported quarterly results. A positive start to the U.S. earnings season, which kicked off with Alcoa's higher-than-expected adjusted profit report, further boosted investor sentiment. Couche-Tard gave back 5.6 percent after its fourth-quarter results missed market expectations and played the biggest role of any single stock in leading the market lower. A drop in the price of oil, following an easing of supply worries, contributed to a decline in energy shares. The market has been trying to balance the benefits of better economic data, such as Friday's positive U.S. jobs report, with the likelihood of the U.S. Federal Reserve's starting to pull back from its bond buying later this year. "We're seeing a split focus where investors are focused on equity markets as well as interest rates and returns out of the bond markets," said Craig Fehr, a strategist at Edward Jones. "Investors are taking a bit of a pause trying to digest better data against the prospect of less stimulus." "As the Fed begins to taper its bond purchases and slow down its stimulus," he added, investors are wondering "what does that mean for enthusiasm and returns in the equity markets and the bond markets?" The Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index was up 17 points, or 0.14 percent, at 12,225.87, after reaching 12,247.06, its highest since June 20. Six of the 10 main sectors on the index were in the red. Shares of energy producers fell in choppy trade. Suncor Energy Inc gave back 0.2 percent to C$31.53. But financials, the index's most heavily weighted sector, and industrials were up slightly. The materials sector, which includes mining stocks, made the strongest gain, adding 1.6 percent. Gold producers benefited from a higher bullion price, which hit a one-week high. Goldcorp Inc rose 2.7 percent to C$25.57, and Barrick Gold Corp climbed 1.9 percent to C$14.85. Investors also focused on BlackBerry's annual general meeting where it is facing some tough questions about its future after a recent quarterly report fueled a huge selloff. BlackBerry advanced 2 percent to C$10.30.}}
{{By per second news\nBy per second news\nA 10-year-old girl has died after falling ill aboard a trans-Atlantic Air Canada flight.\nThe airline says Toronto-to-London flight AC868 diverted to Shannon, Ireland, on Saturday after the child suffered a medical problem.\nAir Canada says a doctor and a nurse were on board the plane and helped the flight crew to assist the child.\nEmergency crews met the aircraft when it landed in Ireland, but Air Canada says local medical authorities pronounced the girl dead.\nThe Boeing 787 with 230 passengers on board continued on to London.\nThe Irish Sun reported that the coroner's office has been informed and a post-mortem examination will be carried out.\nNeither Air Canada nor the Canadian government could immediately confirm the girl's nationality.}}
{{UPDATE 1-Brazilian meatpacker JBS unveils $1.8 billion divestment plan\nSAO PAULO/CHICAGO, June 20 Brazilian meatpacker JBS SA revealed a $1.8 billion divestment plan on Tuesday, putting dairy, poultry and cattle feeding assets on the block to cut debt after a corruption scandal raised concerns about its financing costs.}}
{{They're definitely no angels. Three of today's biggest pop stars have joined forces for the upcoming Charlie's Angels soundtrack, which is taking the franchise worldwide. Today, we have the music video for "Don't Call Me Angel", which has Ariana Grande, Miley Cyrus and Lana Del Rey bringing their talents together for the first time ever.\nAriana Grande, Miley Cyrus and Lana Del Rey officially released their full music video for "Don't Call Me Angel" today, which will appear on the soundtrack for Sony's Charlie's Angels reboot coming from director Elizabeth Banks. Banks is playing one of the many Bosleys in the movie, and she shows up here for some of the fun.\nRelated: Charlie's Angels Reboot Takes Old Wonder Woman 1984 Release Date\n"Don't Call Me an Angel" arrives from director Hannah Lux Davis, who is working alongside co-writers Alma-Sofia Miettinen, Grande, Ilya Salmanzadeh, Del Rey, Max Martin, Cyrus and Savan Kotecha. We're not quite sure what else we'll get to hear on this upcoming soundtrack, but it should be quite the banger. Ariana Grande is executive producing the music for the action adventure movie, working with Savan Kotecha and Scooter Braun.\nThe Charlie's Angels soundtrack will release on November 1, as we head into the final stretch of the 2019 movie season and the holidays, so we're sure this is going to be a popular stocking stuffer for any fan of the three talents involved.\nIn Elizabeth Bank's new take on Charlie's Angels, Kristen Stewart, Naomi Scott, and Ella Balinska are working for the mysterious Charles Townsend, whose security and investigative agency has expanded internationally. With the world's smartest, bravest, and most highly trained women all over the globe, there are now teams of Angels guided by multiple Bosleys taking on the toughest jobs everywhere.\nElizabeth Banks wrote the script, working from a story by Evan Spiliotopoulos and David Auburn. Noah Centineo (To All the Boys I've Loved Before), Jonathan Tucker (Westworld), Sam Claflin (Adrift) round out the cast. Patrick Stewart and Djimon Hounsou, join Banks in playing the role of "Bosley", each for a different Townsend Agency around the globe.\nElizabeth Banks and Max Handelman are producing through their Brownstone production company along with Elizabeth Cantillon and Doug Belgrad who is co-financing through his 2.0 Entertainment banner. Andrea Giannetti oversees the film for Sony. Charlie's Angels is set to make its debut on November 15. You can check out the music direct from Ariana Grande's Youtube Channel.}}
{{Felipe Esparza. (Courtesy of HBO)\nAbout 10 minutes into Felipe Esparza’s new HBO stand-up special, the comic starts talking about spending nearly a lifetime translating for his parents.\n“Growing up, when your mom or dad don’t speak English, you have to do everything for them!” he says. “I can’t even do my homework — I’m filling out disability forms.”\nIt’s an experience that especially resonates with anyone who grew up in a household with adults who didn’t speak English as a first language. Those who were forced to order at the fast-food drive-through-window because their mother insisted “they can’t understand my accent” or wrote, in their best 10-year-old penmanship, a school absentee note for their parent to sign.\nBut in “Translate This,” which premieres Saturday at 10 p.m., Esparza uses his trademark crass, blunt and easygoing manner to also tell jokes about his past drug abuse, becoming a dad while in high school and his childhood journey from Mexico to the United States, when he illegally used a cousin’s passport. The hour-long set includes some of his most personal material to date — in his own irreverent “what’s up, fool?” way.\n“I’ve been wanting to do some of these jokes since I thought about it, but I couldn’t. It took me a long time,” he told The Post. Then Esparza’s brother, who also used a cousin’s passport — but a girl cousin’s — encouraged the comic to go for it.\nEsparza worried about offending his brother’s family or friends. “But he said, ‘don’t worry about it, bro. Just do it. Tell it as it happened. … This story needs to be told, I know you know how to tell it.’ ”\n[The new rock stars: Inside today’s golden age of comedy]\nThe Los Angeles comic began doing stand-up about 20 years ago after a stint in drug rehab. His big break came with winning “Last Comic Standing” in 2010. His friend, comic Gabriel Iglesias, tells stories onstage about Esparza. In 2012, Esparza released his first special on Netflix.\nFor this new special, a trip riding the subway inspired him to talk about translating as a child. He saw a little girl, maybe 8, on a train headed to North Hollywood. She looked like she could have been from Pueblo or Oaxaca, but had no accent while chatting with an African American man.\n“She was translating the conversation she was having with the man to her mom, and then her mom would tell her something in Spanish, and then she’d respond in Spanish, then look over at the man and relay what she said in Spanish to him,” Esparza recalled in an interview. “So I was laughing: a little girl, translating a joke in both languages. I was telling my wife, this little girl is so smart. I know her life without even knowing her. She does everything for her mom. She probably fills out all the applications.”\n“She’s learning how to be a grown woman at such a little age, and that’s who I was,” Esparza said. “When I was a little kid, I translated everything for my parents. So when my teacher said, ‘You’re failing math,’ I’d say, ‘You don’t know me!’ ”\nThat moment of realization — plus an interview on a podcast hosted by Neal Brennan and Moshe Kasher, in which they asked him to talk about his upbringing and immigrant background — led to the material in his HBO special.\nBut Esparza said his experience is one that anyone can relate to, “not just Latin Americans, but anybody who has helped their parents.”\nIt could be a fraught time for a stand-up comic who came to the United States illegally as a child to talk about immigration onstage — everything from award show red carpets to breakfast cereal has gotten wrapped up in partisan political debates. But Esparza said since Donald Trump became president, more people come out to his live shows looking for an escape. While he talks immigration, there’s no mention of President Trump.\n[Is Trump good for comedy? Comedians respond.]\n“I never jumped into that type of comedy. I felt it’s a short run,” he said of joking about whoever’s in the White House. “That’s not funny 10 years from now. I want my jokes to outlast me. I want my jokes to be quoted the way people still quote Shakespeare and Mark Twain.”\nThe current stand-up comedy boom means the field has expanded, particularly in allowing for more diverse voices. When Esparza began comedy, he and other comics worried about crossing over to a mainstream, white audience.\nThen his mentor Paul Rodriguez “gave me the best advice ever: ‘Felipe, right now, don’t worry about crossing over. Just get really, really funny, because if you get really funny as a comedian, you don’t have to worry about you crossing over, because everyone will cross over to you,’ ” Esparza said. “And that’s what I’m hoping with the HBO special.”}}
{{TORONTO, July 18 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index advanced on Thursday to its highest level in 1-1/2 months as investors were reassured by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's comments that the U.S. central bank will adopt a flexible approach about its stimulus pullback. The Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index unofficially closed up 60.08 points, or 0.48 percent, at 12,628.85. Five of the 10 main sectors on the index were higher.}}
{{About 120 of the Indigenous students at the University of Alberta thought they were sitting down to a Christmas lunch, but were surprised when it came with a special gift.\nThe students, who are part of the Aboriginal Student Services Centre, received two pairs of crystal earrings with the intention they can hand one pair over as a gift to friends or family.\n"They're so beautiful and so sparkly, they're pretty magical," said Karrie Auger, 31.\nAuger is at university in Edmonton gaining the credentials to go back to her home community of Wabasca, Alta., where she hopes to inspire others to follow their dreams.\nShe hasn't chosen her career yet while she concentrates on her studies.\nThe gift she and the others collected at the lunch is meant to acknowledge their ambition and dedication.\nAboriginal Student Services Director Shana Dion says the partnership with a jewelry company is a way to acknowledge the students hard work at Christmas. (Scott Neufeld/CBC)\n"I've heard their story in how they've become to be in post-secondary and the trials and tribulations they've been through," said Shana Dion, the director of the Aboriginal Student Services Centre.\nThe centre provides mentorship as well as cultural support and programming for Indigenous students.\nIt embraced the idea as a way to ease some of the additional financial stresses and anxiety that can happen at Christmas time.\nThe students were chosen by jewelry company Hillberg & Berk as part of their "Making Spirits Bright" program.\nThe Canadian company has made Ashley Callingbull from Enoch First Nation the face of its new line and she was there to hand out the gift boxes.\n"It's something that you don't normally see, so by doing that I'm breaking barriers and being a role model," said Callingbull, who made a name for herself when crowned Mrs. Universe in 2015.\nAshley Callingbull says she hopes her story of finding a way out of poverty will inspire others. (Scott Neufeld/CBC)\nHer message of climbing out of poverty is one Auger can relate to.\n"We've had a lot of things to overcome," she said, adding it's uncomfortable to talk about her family's history in residential schools, but it's a common theme for many Indigenous people.\nAuger and the other students were encouraged to keep one pair of the stud earrings and give the other pair to someone special at Christmas.\nMany said they would be surprising their mother or grandmother with them.\nAuger said hers is a different choice, but an easy choice.\n"Definitely my best friend. She has been my best friend since I was 15 or 16 and she has been with me this whole time and so supportive and she also loves a little bit of bling too," Auger said.\nHer friend, also now back in school, has had her own challenges of late which makes Auger even more grateful for the earrings she can give as a gift.\n"Nice to honour her and be able to say I recognize how hard you're working too and I love you so much."}}
{{Children as young as six have been recorded as self-harming in schools, a Freedom of Information request by BBC Wales has found.\nOne council said self-harm referrals to social services by their schools had risen six-fold in three years.\nThe National Education Union (NEU) has urged the Welsh Government to introduce wellbeing officers into schools.\nThe Children's Commissioner for Wales, Sally Holland, wants schools to be "sites of excellence" for nurturing young people.}}
{{Anger is mounting among top Hollywood producers and showrunners over Fox News' coverage of President Donald Trump's zero-tolerance policy toward asylum-seekers from other countries, which has resulted in almost 2,000 children being separated from their families at the US-Mexico border.\nVeteran producer Judd Apatow is calling for talent to boycott working with Fox, in a series of Tweets he sent out over the past few days.\nBelow, read Apatow's comments, as well as comments from people associated with Fox's TV and movie entertainment arms of the company who have similar outrage over what the news division is saying.\nJudd Apatow\nI haven’t worked with Fox since 2002. That family promotes evil ideas and greed and corruption. We all choose who to work with. I understand why that is easier for some than others but many powerful people are powerful enough to speak up to their bosses at a moment like this. https://t.co/8NtsqsR8Xj — Judd Apatow (@JuddApatow) June 18, 2018\nPeople don’t want to deal with the fact that when you work for any part of Fox you are supporting a family which has made billions lying and manipulating our citizens for their personal financial gain. Now that includes supporting the kidnapping of children. That’s your boss. https://t.co/mCKnOeXQzX — Judd Apatow (@JuddApatow) June 19, 2018\nSteve Levitan\nThe Modern Family creator, who also has a deal at 20th Century Fox TV, wrote:\nLet me officially join @SethMacFarlane in saying I’m disgusted to work at a company that has anything whatsoever to do with @FoxNews. This bullshit is the opposite of what #ModernFamily stands for. https://t.co/dnvIbgoIyA — Steve Levitan (@SteveLevitan) June 19, 2018\nSeth MacFarlane\nLevitan is referring to MacFarlane's — whose shows The Orville and Family Guy are on Fox — recent criticism of Fox News host Tucker Carlson's message to viewers to not trust other news outlets who are covering the immigration crisis. MacFarlane has admitted this makes him "embarrassed" to work for Fox.\nIn other words, don’t think critically, don’t consult multiple news sources, and in general, don’t use your brain. Just blindly obey Fox News. This is fringe shit, and it’s business like this that makes me embarrassed to work for this company. https://t.co/kC7MPYxdgZ — Seth MacFarlane (@SethMacFarlane) June 16, 2018\nPaul Feig\nFeig, who's made the movies Spy and The Heat with Fox Studios, also spoke out.}}
{{Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said separating migrant children from parents was "unacceptable"\nThe US practice of separating migrant children from parents caught crossing the US-Mexico border illegally is "wrong," Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Wednesday.\n"What's going on in the United States is wrong," he told reporters. "I can't imagine what the families living through this are enduring. Obviously this is not the way we do things in Canada."\nSpeaking in French, the prime minister added that the US actions were "unacceptable."\nPresident Donald Trump's administration is facing growing outcry at home and abroad over the separations, the product of a "zero-tolerance" policy on undocumented migrants.\nUS officials say more than 2,300 children have been separated from their parents or guardians since early May, when the policy was announced.\nLawmakers who visited minors in detention described wailing children behind chain-link fences, with no idea when they will see their parents again.\nOn Tuesday, Canada's Immigration Minister Ahmed Hussen warned that the policy could threaten America's safe haven status.}}
{{The Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), is a federal university of technology located in Bauchi, Northern Nigeria.\nApplications are invited from suitably qualified and patriotic Nigerians of high academic and professional qualifications with impeccable moral character to be employed as Academic and Non-academic Staff in the following capacities below, who shall provide the needed expertise to the students and key into the University’s vision in producing graduates of international standard in the Pre Clinic Department of the College of Medical Sciences:\nCLICK HERE TO VIEW JOB DETAILS AND APPLY}}
{{In the German tradition, presents are opened on Christmas Eve before a candlelit banquet.\nOn Christmas morning the family usually attend the traditional service at St Mary Magdalene on their grounds. On Boxing Day, the Duke of Edinburgh traditionally organises a shoot.\nOn Tuesday it was announced that the Queen would be stepping down as patron from 25 national organisations at the end of her 90th birthday year, with the patronages passing to other members of the Royal Family.\nThe move is likely to be seen as a common-sense decision which acknowledges the Queen’s advancing years but Buckingham Palace stressed the monarch is still patron of around 600 organisations.\nThe Queen and Duke, 95, were surrounded by their family on Tuesday when they hosted their annual Christmas lunch for dozens of relatives at Buckingham Palace.}}
{{I will work with you to help you figure out what your day will look like and how to plan for the best possible photos so you don't have to worry about it. This isn’t my first rodeo and I might have some insights you hadn’t thought of.\nKnow More: https://jonmarkphoto.com/}}
{{The video will start in 8 Cancel\nGet Daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nHull Facebook sensation Melissa Ede has filmed this hilarious video about gravy - just in time for Christmas.\nMelissa, 56, is well-known for her online videos which have received millions of views and she has thousands of followers on Facebook.\nThey mostly feature her singing in skimpy outfits with items often attached to her chest - including bottles of tomato ketchup and mayonnaise.\nBut this time, she is singing with boxes of Bisto and Aunt Bessies gravy granules dangling from her chest.\n(Image: Melissa Ede)\nIn the video, she says: "I want to hear you hear you say gravy, gravy.\n"Don't forget your gravy with your Christmas shopping. Don't forget your gravy for Christmas day.\n"Merry Christmas everybody.\n"Enjoy your dinners. You won't be without gravy now, will you?"\nSpeaking to the Mail about the video, Melissa said it is bound to make people remember their gravy for Christmas day.\n(Image: Melissa Ede)\n"I think Christmas day would be ruined if you never had gravy on it and I just wanted to remind the world not to forget to put it in their shopping trolleys," she said.\n"I put chicken and beef gravy on so you remembered to get the correct one as it's sacrilege to put the wrong gravy on the wrong meat.\n"As always, I have had mixed response from people. Some love gravy others don't but one one thing is for sure, nobody will forget their gravy after watching my great singing and dancing.\n"It's such a memorable jingle."}}
{{* TSX down 32.70 points, or 0.27 percent, at 12,145.68 * Eight of 10 main index sectors decline * RBC drops, has biggest negative influence * Gold-mining shares rise with bullion By John Tilak TORONTO, July 3 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index dropped in volatile trading on Wednesday as political turmoil in Portugal and Egypt coupled with sluggish data out of China to stoke investor worries about the global economic recovery. Higher bullion prices pushed up gold stocks and crude oil prices shot up on Middle East tensions, but failed to provide much support to energy shares, which edged higher. Investors had much to process on Wednesday as Egypt's armed forces overthrew elected President Mohamed Mursi and announced a political transition with the support of a wide range of leaders. Meanwhile, political turmoil in Portugal drove Lisbon's bourse to its worst day in three years and threatened to reignite the euro zone crisis. Also on Wednesday, data showed China's services sector expanded only modestly in June with the vast construction industry acting as a drag on growth, a further sign that the world's second-largest economy is losing momentum. The resources-heavy Canadian market's dependence on the global economy because of the commodities it exports makes it vulnerable to any such bumps on the road. "It's a combination of geopolitical and macroeconomic uncertainty," said Elvis Picardo, strategist and vice president of research at Global Securities in Vancouver. "That is weighing on the TSX because the index is a proxy for global growth." The market is also awaiting the influential U.S. nonfarm payrolls report on Friday. "The U.S. jobs numbers have been quite pivotal in determining market direction," Picardo said, adding investors would like the jobs numbers to "hit the sweet spot." The jobs numbers should not be "too low to raise concerns about a potential slowdown in the United States," or "too strong to cause more fear about the Fed tapering the quantitative easing program." In Europe, Portuguese 10-year bond yields topped 8 percent and its stock market sank after the country's president summoned main political parties for crisis talks over the government's future. The market fears a snap election could derail Lisbon's exit from an international bailout. But Lorne Steinberg, president of Lorne Steinberg Wealth Management in Montréal, said investors should look past the current crisis. "Portugal is not Greece. This is just a blip on the screen ... Europe is past the worst," he said. "In three to four years, Europe will be back to some kind of sluggish growth." The Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index closed down 32.70 points, or 0.27 percent, at 12,145.68. Eight of the 10 main sectors on the index were in the red. Financials, the index's most heavily weighted sector, were down 0.4 percent. Royal Bank of Canada, the country's biggest lender, fell 0.6 percent to C$60.55 and played the biggest role of any single stock in leading the market lower. Toronto-Dominion Bank lost 0.3 percent to C$84.51. Shares of telecommunications providers dropped 1.3 percent, with Rogers Communications Inc down 2 percent at C$41.52. The materials sector, which includes mining stocks, advanced 1.1 percent. Shares of gold producers jumped 1.3 percent as the price of bullion climbed. Barrick Gold Corp added 1.2 percent to C$15.51, and Goldcorp Inc gained 2.7 percent to C$26.02. Shares of energy companies were up 0.2 percent. Canadian Natural Resources Ltd climbed 2.3 percent to C$30.99 and had the biggest positive influence on the market.}}
{{University of Sheffield academics run voluntary projects to help refugees\nDavid Read, the Director of Technology-Enhanced Learning at the English Language Teaching Centre (ELTC), is one of three UK academics running a project to teach English to Syrian refugee academics in Turkey.\nThe voluntary project aims to provide the Syrian refugee academics with English language skills so that they can reconnect with the global academic community. The project leaders also hope to improve the Syrian academics' employability in Turkey.\nDavid works with two other academics from the University of Edinburgh and the University of Reading to direct the programme. He has also set up the online system through which the academics study English for six hours a week.\nRoughly 30 Syrian academics are currently enrolled on the programme. Each refugee is paired with a UK-based academic who voluntarily tutors them for one hour a week through David's online system.\nSo far, David has been to meet the Syrian academics twice in Istanbul. In order to leave the cities in the south of Turkey where most of the refugees currently live, the Syrian academics had to receive special permission from Turkish authorities.\nDavid also trains the UK tutors in the technical skills required to teach the Syrian academics online and in how to deal with the technical difficulties the Syrian academics sometimes experience. Internet connection in the cities where the refugees are largely based is unreliable and sometimes affected by fighting south of the border.\nFunded by the Open Society through the Council for At-Risk Academics (CARA), the project has also received support from two Turkish Universities; Boğaziçi University and Kadir Has University. Next year, the project directors are planning to submit a bid to Erasmus+ for further funding.\nDavid said of the project: "Developing and improving the language and academic skills of Syrian academics is absolutely vital if the country wants to rebuild its higher education system in the future.\n"Many of the Syrian academics living in Turkey feel isolated from their profession and from their colleagues. This programme provides them with the chance to increase their academic visibility and share experiences and knowledge with each other."\nMuneer Aboud, who also works at the ELTC, is one of the online tutors on the programme. He also voluntarily runs a programme to teach English to refugees in Sheffield.\nMuneer is originally from Syria and studied for his Masters in Applied Linguistics at the University of Sheffield in the early 2000s.\nOnce every week, Muneer leads a two-hour session in Sheffield's St Mary's Church in order to help Sheffield based refugees to pass the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) exam. This qualification is mandatory for all university applicants in the UK for whom English is not their first language, and is required for applicants of many high level jobs.\nThe class Muneer leads consists of roughly 12 refugees whose English skills vary. Many of the group already have degrees and want to embark on further study.\nMuneer said: "I am glad to be able to help students at St Mary’s. I hope that my help will enable them to contribute positively in the community.\n"My contribution in teaching at St Mary’s and the CARA programme is quite rewarding and satisfying. I am proud to be a member of the team that supports refugees and asylum seekers and contributes to the delivery of the ELTC’s and the University of Sheffield’s public responsibility role."\nAdditional information The University of Sheffield With almost 27,000 of the brightest students from over 140 countries, learning alongside over 1,200 of the best academics from across the globe, the University of Sheffield is one of the world’s leading universities. A member of the UK’s prestigious Russell Group of leading research-led institutions, Sheffield offers world-class teaching and research excellence across a wide range of disciplines. Unified by the power of discovery and understanding, staff and students at the university are committed to finding new ways to transform the world we live in. Sheffield is the only university to feature in The Sunday Times 100 Best Not-For-Profit Organisations to Work For 2017 and was voted number one university in the UK for Student Satisfaction by Times Higher Education in 2014. In the last decade it has won four Queen’s Anniversary Prizes in recognition of the outstanding contribution to the United Kingdom’s intellectual, economic, cultural and social life. Sheffield has six Nobel Prize winners among former staff and students and its alumni go on to hold positions of great responsibility and influence all over the world, making significant contributions in their chosen fields. Global research partners and clients include Boeing, Rolls-Royce, Unilever, AstraZeneca, Glaxo SmithKline, Siemens and Airbus, as well as many UK and overseas government agencies and charitable foundations.}}
{{CHARLESTON, W.Va. (AP) - West Virginia has authorized its county school boards to offer virtual school, where students in kindergarten through high school can learn online.\nUnder the law approved by the Legislature and Gov. Jim Justice, a county board or a multicounty consortium can create a virtual instruction program and contract with online education providers starting July 1.\nElementary school students from kindergarten through fifth grade won't be allowed until the program has operated for one full school year.\nThe law requires counting eligible students in the school district's enrollment for determining state aid and subjecting them to the same state assessment requirements as other students to receive a diploma.\nIt allows them to participate in school sports and other extracurricular activities as well as "blended programs" with both classroom and online learning.\nCopyright 2017 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.}}
{{× Cudahy High School power lifting coach pleads guilty to ‘exposing a child to harmful material’\nMILWAUKEE — A Cudahy High School power lifting coach accused of sending inappropriate photos and video to a girl, 17, pleaded guilty on Wednesday, June 20 to the four criminal counts against him.\nKurt Wojciechowski, 45, entered the guilty pleas to four counts of exposing a child to harmful material. The judge hearing the case then entered a judgment of conviction.\nAccording to a criminal complaint, “several people” reported concerns about Wojciechowski and his attention to the teenage girl. The complaint says that student “minimized” her relationship with Wojciechowski, but ultimately admitted she had a key to his apartment “to pick things up” and she was never there when he was there.\nInvestigators took a look at her phone, which revealed Wojciechowski had sent her “numerous pictures of his naked body,” along with inappropriate videos.\nProsecutors say Wojciechowski admitted to sending some texts to the girl with the same screen name from which the inappropriate photos and videos were sent. He consented to a search of his phone, but it appeared he’d deleted all of his content.\nWojciechowski is set to be sentenced on July 30.}}
{{Officials say Brooke County has seen a decline in school enrollment for the past several years.\nWith recent state budget cuts, it's time for the county to adjust. One of these adjustments will be the combining of Wellsburg and Follansbee Middle Schools in 2018.\nIn 2015, Brooke County broke ground on a brand new, state-of-the-art middle school for students. The new school will not only help cut costs for the county, but will also have more resources available to students.\nBrooke Middle School will soon be the new home to nearly 900 students in the county. The school will be located right next to Brooke High School's football field and will feature state of the art technology, classrooms and more. Officials say they're very excited to bring the two schools together. They're also excited for students to finally be in a building that has the technology and resources they need.\n"They are going to be given a top notch education and they're going to be provided with the technology and everything in our science labs that students should have," said Brooke County Schools Superintendent Toni Paesano Shute. "So, it's really a project that we've embraced and we're very excited. Our students are really going to have an outstanding education."\nThe Superintendent also confirms that instead of textbooks, Brooke Middle School will have a one-on-one ratio of technology to students. Which means each middle schooler will be getting a Google Chromebook of their own.\nOfficials say the new middle school is right on schedule, thanks to great weather, and should be open for school in 2018.}}
{{Teachers returned to their classrooms this week with large ambitions. They are aiming to set up their students for success and to enrich their lives like only a first-rate education can. But in Park City, they don’t have to do it alone.\nAmong the many annual rites that accompany the return of school, one stands out: The Park City Education Foundation is ramping up for another year of helping Park City schools deliver an excellent education.\nBut this is a particularly special school year for the foundation. It has reached its 30th anniversary, and it’s a milestone that everyone in Park City should celebrate. The foundation began in 1986 with a $2,000 grant, but over the years, it has morphed into an organization that changes students’ lives in meaningful ways on a near-daily basis.\nIt is no secret that Utah is dead last in per-student public education spending. Districts all around Utah have felt the effects of continuing to lag behind the rest of the country. Budgets have remained stagnant or grown only incrementally. Many students do not get the same opportunities they might elsewhere.\nIn Park City, the Education Foundation has taken on that burden. It’s true the Park City School District is wealthier than most in the state, but its budget is far from unlimited. Without the foundation, many of the programs parents and students take for granted would cease to exist. There’s the Author-In-Residence program, which brings a writer to town each year to speak with students. There’s the district’s preschool courses, which have drawn widespread acclaim. The list goes on.\nIt’s important to note that the foundation’s work does not just benefit a few students. The sheer volume of initiatives the foundation funds means nearly everyone who goes to class in the Park City School District is affected.\nAnd perhaps most importantly, the foundation provides resources for students public education often leaves behind. The foundation gives money for first-generation college students to visit in-state colleges and for the Park City High School student newspaper to publish content in Spanish. Recently, the foundation helped launch the Bright Futures program, which aims to give underserved students the help they need to not only get into college, but to flourish once they do.\nThe scope of the Education Foundation’s work shows us what can be done when a community pitches in toward one goal. And everyone who lives in town or has attended Park City’s schools is better off for it.\nWith 30 years of serving students in the rear-view mirror, the foundation will continue to count on the community to ensure many more fruitful decades to come. So when the foundation comes calling for donations this year, every Parkite who knows the value of education should do his or her part to pitch in.}}
{{The Department of Homeland Security is drafting a plan that would keep families together in detention after they are detained crossing the border illegally, according to a news report.\nThe Associated Press reported that Homeland Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen has drafted the action for President Donald Trump and was headed to the White House to discuss the plan. It's unclear if the president supports the action.\nThe action would come as Trump, who has met with lawmakers on Capitol Hill, pushes for legislative action on the issue. But Nielsen reportedly believes there is little certainty that Congress will act.\nOn Wednesday, Trump again blamed Democrats for the problems and said Republicans wanted security.\n"But I am working on something - it never ends!" he tweeted.\nHe later told reporters that he planned to sign something that would keep families together.\n“I’ll be signing something in a little while that’s going to do that," Trump said. "I’ll be doing something that’s somewhat preemptive and ultimately will be matched by legislation I’m sure.”\nWhite House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders told reporters of a possible executive order, "We'll keep you posted. When we have an announcement to make, we'll make it."\nCopyright 2017 USATODAY.com}}
{{If you want to create a classic French Christmas feast this year, these are the 12 dishes you'll need to include, writes French food blogger Florence Richomme.\nThe culinary highlight of a French Christmas is not for most families on Christmas Day, but late on Christmas Eve, and traditionally begins once people return from midnight mass.\nThe feast is called "Le Reveillon", meaning "awakening" or "wake up", because it normally goes on until the early hours of the morning.\nTo do things properly really means eating festive dishes made with ingredients you wouldn't use the rest of the year, says Richomme of the My Parisian Kitchen blog.\nHere are 12 Christmas dishes Richomme says must be included on the menu of a classic French Christmas:\nFoie gras terrine\nFoie gras, which is often homemade, is the one dish that immediately comes to mind and really represents Christmas in France. Foie gras is eaten on different kinds of bread toasts, brioche bread or gingerbread and sometimes with fig spread or onion confit.\nPhoto: cyclonebill/Wikimedia\nSmoked salmon\nEven French kids love to eat smoked salmon, especially on blinis or thin white sandwich bread slices. An essential for Christmas that is now eaten all year-round and used as an ingredient for many fancy recipes.\nScallops\nThe French love scallops as they are very delicate and luxurious. The done thing is to present them in their shells or briefly fry them and dress with a sauce.\nOne of the favourite ways of preparing them is with an orange cream sauce and braised endives with honey, and scallop tartar is also becoming more and more popular.\nChilled oysters Served on a large platter on a bed of ice, oysters come with a lemon wedge or a mignonette sauce made with red wine vinegar, chopped shallots and black pepper.\nPhoto: AFP\nCapon or turkey with chestnut stuffing\nThis is the most popular and classic Christmas dish. The capon or turkey is braised in the oven with a generous chestnut stuffing. Classic sides include chestnuts, green beans wrapped with bacon and truffle mashed potatoes.\nWild game\nRarely eaten during the rest of the year unless there's a hunter in the family, wild game often makes it onto the Christmas menu in France.\nCommon choices are venison, wild boar or pheasant marinated in red wine or served with a sauce (wine or cranberries for example).\nSophisticated fish dishes\nAs Christmas is a Christian feast which considers eating fish as a sign of abstaining, the French like to have fish but fancy species like monkfish, turbot, sole, bass prepared in a sophisticated manner. For example, monkfish blanquette with morels.\nCheese platter\nA huge cheese platter with many different varieties is an absolute must-have. It should be neatly arranged and served with different kinds of breads. Some cheeses also have festive versions like truffle camembert which is to die for!\n(If you need a reminder on how to navigate the world of Fren https://www.thelocal.fr/20171220/ten-dining-rules-to-follow-at-christmas-time-in-france ch cheese etiquette, check out our guide .)\nBûche de Noël\nBûche de Noël is definitely the one and only Christmas dessert. Traditionally shaped to represent the real wood log placed in the fireplace on Christmas Eve, the log is often made of garnished swiss roll topped with buttercream or ganache and decorated with tiny figurines.\nIce cream logs are becoming more and more popular among dessert addicts and chocolate or chestnut are no longer the only beloved flavors.\nPhoto: Kelly Sue DeConnick/Flickr\nExotic and candied fruits\nIt’s common to have lychee, clementine, passion fruit, mango at the end of the meal, and so refreshing after a rich meal! And by extension dried fruits such as dates (sometimes stuffed with almond paste) and candied fruits are also popular.\nChocolate truffles\nIt’s difficult to choose a favourite from all the tiny bite size Christmas cookies like Bredele from Alsace in eastern France, chocolate and dried fruits, as well as candied oranges. But as Christmas is synonymous with chocolate, the ultimate treats are chocolate truffles made of black chocolate ganache and coated with cacao. Who could resist them?\nChampagne\nThis is not a dish but is actually something you definitely have to serve for a classic French Christmas Eve dinner. You may want to pour in crème de cassis (blackcurrant liquor) to make a kir royal. But if champagne is good, there’s no need!\nFlorence Richomme is a Frenchwoman living in Paris who blogs about cooking at My Parisian Kitchen. Follow her on Facebook here for regular updates.\nREAD ALSO:\nPhoto: Josh McGinn/Flickr}}
{{The video will start in 8 Cancel\nGet Daily updates directly to your inbox Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nYou try to hate them but you just can't keep a straight face. Christmas cracker jokes are the most awesome thing no-one will admit to liking.\nIf you haven't got a naff paper hat on and you're not groaning as your dad tells an awful Christmas cracker joke - did you even do Christmas?\nYou might pretend to hate them but it's clear from this list that there is just something about the awful puns and tortured pull-back-and-reveals which we can't get enough of.\nWe tell them for the groans as much as the laughs.\nWe give you a Bristol Post guarantee - you won't be able to get through this list without at least a chuckle.\nForget the paper hat which always rips, or the rubbish gifts, the mighty Christmas cracker is all about the joke.\nWe think you will struggle to get through this list of 40 of the best (and cheesiest) Christmas cracker jokes, as compiled by Wales Online, without at least a slight snigger.\n1. What goes 'Oh, Oh, Oh'? Santa walking backwards\n2. Why are Christmas trees bad knitters? They keep losing their needles\n3. What do you call a line of men waiting for a haircut? A barberqueue\n4. Why was the turkey in the pop group? Because he was the only one with drumsticks!\n5. What do you call a boomerang that does not come back? A stick\n6. What do snowmen wear on their heads? Ice caps\n7. Why was the snowman looking through the carrots? He was picking his nose\n8. Got a Christmas card full of rice today, I think it was from my Uncle Ben.\n9. Two snowmen were standing in a field. One said, "Can you smell carrots?"\n10. A man walks into a bar ...ouch\n11. What did Adam say the day before Christmas? "It's Christmas Eve"\n12. What does Santa do with fat elves? He sends them to an Elf Farm\n13. What did Cinderella say when her photos didn’t arrive on time? One day my prints will come\n14. When do vampires like racing? When it’s neck and neck\n15. What’s a dog’s favourite carol? Bark, the herald angels sing\n16. What does Miley Cyrus have for her Christmas dinner? Twerky\n17. What do snowmen have for breakfast? Snowflakes\n18. What does Father Christmas do when his elves misbehave? He gives them the sack\n19. What do you give a dog for Christmas? A mobile bone\n20. Why did the pony have to gargle? Because it was a little horse\n21. What goes Ho Ho Whoosh, Ho Ho Whoosh, Ho Ho Whoosh? Father Christmas in a revolving door\n22. What is Santa’s favourite pizza? One that’s deep-pan, crisp and even\n23. What do Santa's little helpers learn at school? The elf-abet!\n24. What’s a horse’s favourite TV show? Neighbours\n25. What do you get when you cross a snowman with a vampire? Frostbite\n26. What do you call a train loaded with toffee? A chew chew train\n27. Why couldn’t the skeleton go to the Christmas party? He had no body to go with\n28. Why did no-one bid for Rudolph and Blitzen on eBay? Because they were two deer\n29. What happened to the man who stole an advent calendar? He got 25 days\n30. How do snowmen get around? By riding an ‘icicle\n31. How did Mary and Joseph know that Jesus was 7lb 6oz when he was born? They had a weigh in a manger\n32. Who hides in the bakery at Christmas? A mince spy\n33. What is the best Christmas present? A broken drum, you can't beat it!\n34. What do you call a woman who stands between two goal posts?Annette\n35. What has four legs but can’t walk? A table\n36. Why did Santa have to go to the hospital? Because of his poor elf\n37. What do frogs wear on their feet? Open toad sandles\n38. Why are pirates called pirates? Because they arrrrrrr!\n39. What do you call a blind reindeer? No-eye deer\n40. What’s round and bad tempered? A vicious circle}}
{{CLEVELAND, Ohio - Buying school supplies is a rite of passage for millions of families.\nRetailers kicked off the back-to-school season in July, with promotions that seem to run earlier every year. Next weekend, Ohio will sweeten the sales pitch by offering a sales-tax break on clothing, school supplies and instructional materials.\nIn its third year in a row, Ohio's "tax-free weekend" is one of 16 offered across the country. The exemption applies from Friday through Sunday, Aug. 6. and is limited to certain items: pieces of clothing priced at $75 or less and school supplies that cost a maximum of $20. There's no limit on the number of qualifying items a shopper can buy.\nEd Jaroszewicz, marketing director at SouthPark Mall in Strongsville, views the tax holiday as a benefit for families. The prospect of one-time savings boosts traffic at the mall, he said, but he expects the weeks leading up to the first day of school to be even busier.\n"Back-to-school is our biggest summertime initiative," he said.\nBased on Cuyahoga County's 8 percent sales-tax rate, "a family spending $300 on school clothes can expect a savings of about $25," Jaroszewicz said.\nNational surveys contain mixed forecasts of how much families will spend leading up to the school year. The National Retail Federation said total spending, for primary and secondary school and college, could reach $83.6 billion this year, up from $75.8 billion last year and $68 billion in 2015.\n"Families are now in a state of mind where they feel a lot more confident about the economy," Matthew Shay, the federation's president and chief executive officer, said in a news release. "With stronger employment levels and a continued increase in wages, consumers are spending more, and we are optimistic that they will continue to do so throughout the rest of the year."\nBased on responses from 7,226 consumers, the trade group expects families with children in elementary school through high school to spend an average of $687.22 per student. For college students, average back-to-school spending is projected to be $969.88.\nBut a survey released by the Deloitte accounting and consulting firm predicts more modest spending, of an average of $501 per student. That's essentially flat from last year.\nMass merchants like Target and Walmart and off-price retailers, such as T.J. Maxx, are likely to get the bulk of that business. Their gains will come at the expense of traditional department stores and specialty clothing stores, Deloitte predicted. Walmart, the world's largest retailer, started displaying back-to-school merchandise in stores in early July.\nEighty-one percent of people who responded to Deloitte's survey said they planned to shop at such mass retailers [?] a 24 percent increase from last year. Name-brand, discount stores also gained fans. Twenty-eight percent of people still expected to visit department stores, but that group fell significantly. Last year, 54 percent of respondents included department stores on their back-to-school shopping list.\nAnd only 8 percent of parents said they planned to visit specialty clothing stores, down from 25 percent in 2016. The survey's findings are yet another indicator of how much the retail businesses - and consumer preferences - have changed.\nFor 20 years, some states have offered sales-tax holidays for many items on back-to-school shopping lists. State laws vary widely, as does the option for cities to participate or pass. Consumers generally can save 5 to 10 percent on purchases, depending on local tax rates.\nThis year, retailers in Ohio, Alabama, Arkansas, Iowa, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia are required to participate in tax holidays. In New Mexico, participation is optional. Missouri and Florida let retailers opt out if only a small share of their merchandise would qualify for the tax exemption.\nDepending on a family's size and needs, the savings can be minimal. But retailers enjoy the hype, since shoppers seeking deals on school supplies often spend money on other things.\nKira Smith, 40, of Cleveland, said that the savings add up even with an only child. And tax-free weekend simplifies the math when she's shopping with her 14-year-old daughter.\n"When I took Kynnedy shopping last year on tax-free day, it was easy for her to budget for herself and spend money on her own," Smith said. "She knew that if she wanted a $12 shirt at Forever 21, it actually cost $12."\nStores tend to feel the back-to-school shopping bump in August. If you prefer to shop online, odds are good that you've already filled your basket.\nLast year, online shopping peaked on July 16, according to an analysis from the NPD Group, a market-research firm based in Port Washington, New York. NPD defined the back-to-school season as July 2 through Sept. 3. Bricks-and-mortar buying didn't spike until the first two weeks of August.\nLocal tax-free shopping days do have a heavy influence on shopping patterns, the firm said.\nBut the National Retail Federation expects parents to spend the bulk of their back-to-school budget on electronics, not clothing and traditional supplies including binders and backpacks. In Ohio, gadgets don't qualify for the sales-tax break, even though they're increasingly part of the curriculum.\n"Schools are changing their classroom experience to include more technology including laptops and tablets," said Pam Goodfellow, principal analyst at Prosper Insights & Analytics, a consumer-data company based in Worthington. "That is why many parents, specifically millennials, are spending more during back-to-school season and taking advantage of retailers' best deals to stretch their budgets."}}
{{This article appears in Sept. 5 Travel page.\nI’m standing on land where, in 1759, British troops equipped with muskets vanquished French soldiers in the Battle of the Plains of Abraham, historically famous for lasting a scant 30 minutes from surprise attack to victory.\nToday, this tract of land is home to myriad festivals, including July’s 10-day Festival D’été de Québec, that has been held here every summer since 1968. The Bell Stage is one of the largest in North America, and is where bands Lynyrd Skynyrd, Imagine Dragons, Mariah Carey and Buddy Guy performed this year. The performance I watched was led by Jason Bonham, son of the late John Bonham, Led Zeppelin’s legendary drummer.\nThe apple didn’t fall far from the tree, talent-wise, and in between songs performed by Jason Bonham’s Led Zeppelin Evening, Jason shared “growing up Zeppelin” anecdotes with the audience. He knew John only as “dad” and was mostly unaware that his father was one of the rock world’s most celebrated drummers for many years. When John passed away from acute alcohol poisoning during a band rehearsal in 1980, the teenaged Jason picked up the drumsticks and began to play.\nAttending rock concerts left me hungry to explore the food scene of Old Quebec City. First stop: a dish of poutine. An iconic Quebec specialty, poutine can be found at almost every local restaurant within this Canadian province. The following evening, I sampled Quebecoise cuisine at La Buche on Rue Saint-Louis. This renowned local favorite opens for dinner at 5 p.m. and not one milli-second before. As I waited patiently in line for 5 p.m. to arrive, I noticed a cannonball lodged into the base of a nearby tree. I was told it was a memento from that oh-so-brief war back in 1759.\nIf you go to La Buche, order a cast iron skillet of poutine, a delicious mess of squeaky cheese curds, heaped with ground pork and French fries swimming in a deep brown gravy. If you feel daring, dine on venison tartare. But whatever you decide to order, be sure to save room for dessert of maple syrup taffy — made by rolling a stickful of syrup in a trough of fresh snow until it’s stiff and frosty.\nOn my final day in Old Quebec, I walked the curves of Parisian-style cobblestone streets, stopping in countless specialty boutiques selling fur. Fur hats. Fur coats. Fur earrings. Fur blankets. With the St. Lawrence River as my backdrop, I ascended my own stairway to heaven inside the stone walls of the old city until I reached the Fairmont Le Château Frontenac, a magnificent, castle-like hotel that dominates the hillside. I had hoped to learn more about the imperious Count of Frontenac and the colorful history of the castle from the 17th to 19th century. Alas, guided tours of the chateau were fully booked throughout my stay; I regretted not making a reservation in advance but assuaged my disappointment by spending a few idle moments watching a street busker balance himself on a stack of chairs.\nLunch beckoned and I took a seat outside at Don Vegan, a 100% plant-based restaurant on Rue du Sault-au-Matelot. This delightful find serves a hearty vegan carbonara pasta made with smoked tofu (as bacon) marinated in a mix that contains liquid smoke and topped with a velvety cashew and soya cream sauce enhanced with sprinkles of vegan Parmesan. I attempted to clean my plate, but simply could not.\nA few more hours of window shopping later, I caught up with a friend over cheese and charcuterie at the revolving restaurant on top of the Hotel Le Concorde. My room in this hotel was a bit tired, but its revolving Ciel Bistro Bar on the 28th floor is the perfect spot to sip a glass of wine while enjoying a bird’s eye view of the bustling Grande-Allée of sidewalk cafés in this charming city to our north.\nCharlene Peters is a culinary adventurer who can be reached at siptripper@gmail.com.}}
{{CLOSE Jazmyne Isaac, an incoming upcoming senior at Booker T. Washington Magnet and the new Student Government Association president, was direct about her disappointment in the district's actions since an August 2018 fire destroyed a portion of her campus and forced the school's relocation. MPS, Wochit\nA little more than a year since Booker T. Washington Magnet High School moved into its temporary home at the former Hayneville Elementary, Montgomery Public Schools has started the process of moving it.\nThe board voted to approve submitting a bid on the former Holy Cross Episcopal School during a Tuesday board meeting. The former K-5 private school announced its closure following the end of the past school year after 20 years of operation.\nMore: Holy Cross Episcopal School announces closure\nMore: 'Show us you care': Student assails MPS at meeting over plan for BTW\nExecutive Director of Operations Chad Anderson said he could not disclose the amount of the offer, but confirmed it was the highest bid Holy Cross received and that lawyers on both sides were moving forward with the discussion of the purchase. Aside from renovations to the current structure, Anderson said the district would add on the campus.\nMore: While Montgomery Public Schools' proposed budget meets state-mandated reserve, CSFO issues warning\nBetween the insurance money from the BTW fire and an allocation made during former Gov. Don Siegelman's administration for a performing arts center, MPS has about $11 million to spend on BTW. Those funds will not be used to purchase the actual property, Anderson said.\nThe funds come partially from a recent $7 million allocation from the state Education Trust Fund to be spent on capital improvement projects. Anderson could not provide a timeline for when BTW would be able to relocate. If the bid is accepted, MPS' board will vote to approve the purchase.\nMore: One year later, the limitations for BTW students at Hayneville are steep\nRead or Share this story: https://www.montgomeryadvertiser.com/story/news/education/2019/09/13/mps-submits-bid-new-btw-location-montgomery-public-schools-magnet-performing-arts-alabama/2310613001/}}
{{Share this article with Google Plus\nMichelle Pulis hosts an incredible Christmas bonanza (Picture: vT Features)\nFrom cancer survivor to Mrs Christmas – meet the inspirational mum with a grotto that even Santa would be jealous of.\nMichelle Pulis, who beat stage three breast cancer, now hosts a Christmas bonanza like no other.\nHere’s how we splashed the cash in 2017\nHundreds of neighbours, friends and family flock to her home every December to see it transformed from a normal three-bed semi to a winter wonderland.\nThe festive funhouse includes a whopping 20,000 lights, 1000 metres of cabling, a whimsical Lego nativity scene and a handmade miniature Bethlehem the size of the family’s garage.\nTo add to the magic on opening night, a Santa awaits the littlest fans in his sleigh, fake snow blasts over the crowd and dozens of twinkling reindeers, Christmas trees, and light-up snowmen fill the front lawn.\nHer home is transformed (Picture: vT Features)\nShe creates the winter wonderland each year (Picture: vT Features)\nFake snow even blasts over the crowd (Picture: vT Features)\nGuests are treated to mulled wine, hot chocolate, mince pies and homemade treats from Michelle’s friends and family.\nAnd it’s in all aid of Rennie Grove Hospice Care, which helped Michelle through her darkest times with counselling and courses.\nDominatrix reveals Christmas is her busiest time of the year\nNow every year, Michelle and her husband Ian, 39 a department store manager, call in goodies from local businesses for a yuletide raffle, as well as a quirky quiz for the children to fill in for a top prize.\nPart time administrator Michelle, 39, of Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire, said: ‘It all started four years ago as a bit of fun for our boys Ollie, 10 and Stanley, seven and it’s got bigger and bigger ever since.\n‘Now, Ian has to start putting the decorations up in October to get it finished on time. It takes a full two months.\nHundreds flock to her house (Picture: vT Features)\nHer home is transformed from a normal three-bed semi (Picture: vT Features)\n‘On the night when we switch on the lights, there’s such an energy and all the kids are so excited to be a part of it.\n‘It’s all the more special because it’s really brought our community together and we’re friends with all of our neighbours now so the Christmas cheer continues all year round.’\nM&S worker makes grieving customer 'part of the family' for Christmas\nThis year’s switch on has already topped donations of £1000.\nGillian Barnett of Rennie Grove Hospice Care added: ‘Michelle’s fantastic light display has become a true highlight of our festive calendar every year.\nShe’s a real Mrs Christmas, giving everyone a seasonal treat while raising much needed funds to support the specialist nursing care we provide to local patients and families.’\nMORE: M&S worker makes grieving customer ‘part of the family’ for Christmas\nMORE: Troops in Afghanistan given £1 each to celebrate Christmas}}
{{HOLLANSBURG – The Westmont High School building no longer stands in Hollansburg, so the school’s alumni decided they wanted a memorial to denote the location where their school once stood.\nFormer students and staff contributed to fund the Westmont Memorial, a bench which features an engraving of the Westmont building.\nThe Westmont Memorial Bench dedication ceremony was held on Saturday. Those who attended were welcomed by Alumni Chairman Tom Wilson, who introduced the dedication speaker, William Holmes, former superintendent of the Liberty Local School District.\nHolmes shared anecdotes as he recounted the history of the Westmont building. Following the bench dedication ceremony, those who attended were invited to the Golden Eagle Christian Center for a reception prior to the 2018 alumni banquet.\nSpecial thanks to Joyce Wilson Ayette, Carolyn Dill Eubank and Duane Richards for their efforts to obtain the memorial bench and to Hollansburg Town Council for working with the committee to get the bench set.}}
{{Christians in Bartella, Iraq, are celebrating their first Christmas since 2013 following their town's liberation from Islamic State militants as part of the campaign to retake Mosul. Historically called home by thousands of Christians, much of Bartella's population fled to comparative safety in the nearby Kurdish city of Erbil, while its Mar Shimoni church was defaced by occupying ISIS fighters, who tore down crosses and damages statues of saints.\n"It is a mix of sadness and happiness," Bishop Mussa Shemani said of celebrating Christmas Eve Mass in the damaged building. "We are sad to see what has been done to our holiest places by our own countrymen, but at the same time we are happy to celebrate the first Mass after two years."\nMany former residents of other historically Christian areas nearby remain unable to go home because of the level of destruction in their towns. For now, they are stuck in refugee camps and overcrowded apartments, relying on humanitarian aid to survive. "We miss praying in our churches, sitting outside our homes in the summer evenings, tending our gardens," said Rev. Khouri Youssef, an elderly Catholic Chaldean priest who organized his town's evacuation in 2014 as ISIS forces approached. "We bear the wound in our hearts, but life goes on." Bonnie Kristian}}
{{Aside from the emotions and stress of a new routine (and potentially new schools), a hallmark joy of the first days of school is scrolling through Facebook and other social media feeds to see all the moms' first-day photos, many complete with pre-fab signs.\nI get a kick out of the parody photos and relieved moms, but that's another blog post. Literally, this one. Or this video:\nIf you're looking to do something a little more fun in real life, here are some ideas to get you started on the back-to-school photos:\n1) Don't hide the real emotion. Not everyone is happy. Go ahead and document interaction between siblings or sad feelings. Not everyone's smiling now, but it will be an authentic memory to share down the road.\nIf the first day of preschool didn't start strong, maybe next year's photo will be better.\nThinkstock\n2) Avoid the chalkboard. Instead of using a chalkboard detailing the grade, teacher, etc., why not have your child pose with his or her favorite book (a suggestion from PopSugar)? Or best friend? Or at one of his or her favorite places, such as a local park or local store?\nPhoto by lutfi gaos on Unsplash\n3) If you can't avoid the chalkboard, at least plan ahead. You could coordinate with the last day of school with this option from Etsy. Or this one.\nCreationsByBel via Etsy\n4) Go full-on photo booth. Amazon has some fun, inexpensive photo booth kits, such as this one and this one.\n5) Or pull out all the stops with a backdrop, such as this school bus. Or a unicorn one. Or a book case.}}
{{Dozens of royals attended a church service at the Sandringham Estate today - a cornerstone of the family's Christmas celebrations - however the Queen herself was notably absent as she continues to recover from a heavy cold.\nPrince Charles, The Duchess of Cornwall, the Duke of Edinburgh, Prince Harry, the Earl of Wessex and Prince Andrew joined other royals as they made their way from Sandringham House to St Mary Magdalene Church where they enjoyed two Christmas services.\nAs supreme Governor of the Church of England, the Queen's faith is incredibly important to her - and this is the first time in nearly 30 years the 90-year-old Monarch has missed the service, which she and her husband Prince Philip, 95, have attended every year since 1988.\nIt is thought the Queen has not missed a Christmas Day service at either Sandringham or Windsor Castle - the previous location for the monarch's festive break - in living memory.\nThis comes amid a tumultuous week for the royals, which has seen the Queen and her husband the Duke of Edinburgh struck down with illness and the tragic news her granddaughter Zara Tindall had lost her unborn baby.\nPrince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall led the way as the family arrived for a second, more public service at the church on the Sandringham Estate\nPrince Harry delighted this lady - who is 93 and a half, and had been waiting for hours - as he stopped and took the time to wish her a Merry Christmas\nDespite feeling under the weather, the Duke of Edinburgh was in high spirits as he left the church with Prince Harry and Sophie, Countess of Wessex\nTRAGEDY AS ZARA AND MIKE TINDALL LOSE BABY The couple, pictured at Grand National Horse Racing Festival at Aintree in April It is thought Zara, 35, would have been about four-months pregnant, and the baby was expected to arrive in late Spring. She and her husband Mike Tindall, 38, were said to have been 'thrilled' about the prospect of a baby brother or sister for their daughter Mia, nearly three. It is understood the royal had a miscarriage but it is not known when. A spokeswoman for the couple said: 'Very sadly, Zara and Mike Tindall have lost their baby. At this difficult time, we ask that everyone respects their privacy.' The spokeswoman would not give any details about the circumstances surrounding the loss of the couple's baby but it is understood Zara is not in any medical danger.\nThe service at Sandringham is one of the highlights in the Royal calendar, in which members of the family spend quality time with one another.\nHowever this is the first time in some 28 years the Queen has not attended.\nA spokesman for Kensington Palace said today: 'Her Majesty The Queen will not attend Church at Sandringham this morning.\n'The Queen continues to recover from a heavy cold and will stay indoors to assist with her recovery.\n'Her Majesty will participate in the Royal Family Christmas celebrations during the day.'\nThere was an outpouring of grief yesterday following news the Queen's granddaughter Zara Tindall and her 38-year-old husband lost their unborn baby, just weeks after revealing they were expecting their second child.\nThe pair had been expected to spend Christmas at Sandringham but were not seen today.\nAnd in a break from tradition, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have this year chosen to spend the holidays with Kate's parents, Michael and Carol Middleton, at their home in the village of Bucklebury, Berkshire, some 170 miles away.\nIt came as a surprise to many that, in this special year the Queen reached her magnificent 90-year milestone and Prince Philip turned 95, two of their great-grandchildren Prince George, aged three, and Princess Charlotte, 18 months, will not be with them.\nPrince Harry, meanwhile, is at the estate alone as his girlfriend, American actress Meghan Markle, 35, spends the festive season with her family in Toronto.\nAlthough Miss Markle was not invited the Queen is said to be 'fully supportive' of her grandson's relationship with the actress.\nSenior members of the family have joined the Queen at Sandringham and they will all be sitting down promptly at 1.15pm in the green-walled dining room hung with Spanish tapestries and rising after just over an hour to be in good time to watch her annual message on TV to the Commonwealth at 3pm.\nIn her Christmas speech broadcast later on today, t he Queen will praise the 'inspirational' Team GB athletes in her Christmas Day address, as well as the achievements of 'ordinary people doing extraordinary things'.\nIn a break from tradition, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge (pictured with Prince George and Princess Charlotte), hare spending the holidays with Kate's parents, Michael and Carol Middleton, at their home in the village of Bucklebury, Berkshire\nPrince William and Kate have opted to spend Christmas with her family in Bucklebury, where they were pictured arriving at church this morning\nFrom left, Savannah Phillips, Autumn Phillips, Prince Harry, Prince Charles, Princess Eugenie and Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall\nPrince Harry was all smiles - despite his girlfriend, American actress Meghan Markle spending the holidays in Toronto\nThe Duke of Edinburgh - who has been suffering with a heavy cold all this week - took his coat off before entering the church\nPrince Harry: The 32-year-old royal even stopped to say hello to a dog wearing a festive get-up including baubles and a jumper\nLittle Isla Phillips, four, holds hands with her grandmother Anne, Princess Royal, and her father, Peter Phillips\nPrince Harry stood outside the church with his father, Prince Charles after attending the traditional Christmas morning church service near the Sandringham estate in rural Norfolk\nPrincess Eugenie (left) wore a red felt cocktail hat by Sarah Cant and a black clutch bag by new London handbag designer Stacy Chan, while Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall (right) wore a long blue royal blue coat with black accessories\nPrince Edward, Earl of Wessex, James, Viscount Severn, Princess Eugenie and Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall\nPrince Edward, Earl of Wessex greeted crowds with 13-year-old Lady Louise Windsor who looked smart and elegant in her nude ballet pumps, grey marl coat and pale blue dress with matching silver clutch bag\nPrincess Beatrice (left) teamed her military-style coat, cinched in at the waist with a thick black belt, with vertiginous platform heels and a gingham headband complete with red rose. Her sister Princess Eugenie (right) opted for black court shoes, a grey mark coat, black leather gloves, a red felt cocktail hat by Sarah Cant and a black clutch bag by London designer Stacy Chan\nAutumn Phillips - the wife of Peter Phillips, the oldest grandchild of Queen, with her daughter Savannah\nCamilla, Duchess of Cornwall and the Prince of Wales - who could be seen leaning on his umbrella outside the church\nPrince Harry - looking smart in a paisley-print blue tie with matching shirt - smiled as his legions of fans greeted him\nIn her annual televised message to the nation, the monarch will speak on the theme of 'inspiration', citing the work of 'unsung heroes' across the nation.\nThe broadcast comes at the end of a momentous year in which the UK voted for Brexit, leading to David Cameron resigning, and the Queen celebrated her 90th birthday.\nThe Queen, wearing a blue dress by Angela Kelly, will also refer to the achievements of the Duke of Edinburgh's Award, which celebrated its 60th anniversary, and The Prince's Trust, which turned 40 this year.\nEarlier in the week, royal aides were forced to cancel plans for the Queen and her husband to travel to Sandringham by train at the last minute after doctors deemed them too unwell to go.\nJust over 24 hours later on Thursday and in a very unusual move, the royal couple took off from Buckingham Palace by helicopter.\nThe Queen never normally travels to Sandringham by helicopter, preferring to go by train or car, and her helicopter is only usually used to carry members of the Royal family on public engagements.\nOn Tuesday the Queen hosted her annual pre-Christmas lunch - a royal tradition which allows her to catch up with more distant relations who are not invited to join her at Sandringham on the 25th.\nAnd it was also revealed earlier this week that the Monarch had relinquished more than two dozen of her most high profile patronages as she took another step back from royal duties.\nAs she carried a white floral arrangement, Sophie, Countess of Wessex looked fantastic in her red and black dress\nPrince Harry meetinng the public - many of whom had travelled from around the country - after the service\nThe Prince of Wales, the Duchess of Cornwall, the Duke of Edinburgh and (back row), The Earl of Wessex, Lady Louise Windsor and the Countess of Wessex head to the church at Sandringham\nPrince Charles, The Duchess of Cornwall and the Duke of Edinburgh attend the early Christmas Day Service\nPrince Harry, his cousin Princess Eugenie and Princess Anne's daughter-in-law Autumn Phillips head to the service\nPrince Philip, 95, walking back to Sandringham House: This is the first time in nearly 30 years his wife, the 90-year-old Monarch, has missed the service St Mary Magdalene Church\nPrince Andrew, the Duke of York, wrapped up in a woollen scarf as he made his way to St Mary Magdalene Church\nThe Earl of Wessex, Lady Louise Windsor and the Countess of Wessex appeared to be embracing the festive spirit en route to the church\nLeft, Princess Beatrice and Peter Phillips, the oldest son of Anne, Princess Royal and right, Anne, Princess Royal\nThe Duke of Edinburgh, pictured just behind the Duchess of Cornwall, has been struck down with a heavy cold this week\nPrincess Eugenie seemed to be in high spirits as she chatted animatedly to Princess Anne's daughter-in-law Autumn Phillips and Prince Harry walked alongside them\nPrince Charles, the Duchess of Cornwall and the Duke of Edinburgh wrapped up warm against the cold wind as they led the way to the private mass\nZara Tindall along with her husband Mike and daughter Mia, were thought to have been planning to spend Christmas Day at the Queen’s country house in Norfolk.\nHowever they were not seen with other members of the Royal Family today.\nSpeaking to Country Life magazine in November, Zara spoke about how she was looking forward to spending Christmas with her family.\nShe said: 'Having all the generations of my family together at Christmas is my favourite part of the season.\n'Christmas takes on a new magic when you have children'.\nShe continued: 'Mia will share this Christmas with lots of her cousins , some very close in age to her, and I think this year will be the one when she really starts to understand it all.'\nQUEEN'S ABSENCE: ONE OF THE RARE OCCASIONS MONARCH HAS MISSED AN ENGAGEMENT The Queen's absence from the annual Christmas Day church service at Sandringham is one of the rare occasions she has missed an engagement. She has been a steadfast presence during her reign, but there have been a small number of incidences when ill health has caused her to withdraw from her royal duties. An official trip to Rome was cancelled in 2013 when the Queen was treated for the symptoms of gastroenteritis and stayed overnight in a private hospital. In 2011 she had to miss a service of the Royal Victorian Order at Windsor Castle after suffering a nosebleed. That was thought to be the first time she had missed a key public engagement in five years. In 2006 she cancelled engagements after straining a back muscle and had official appointments scaled down after she underwent knee surgery in 2003. Earlier this year an undisclosed minor ailment forced the Duke of Edinburgh to miss commemorations marking the anniversary of the First World War Battle of Jutland in Orkney, but he was present at the church service in Sandringham on Sunday. He missed the Christmas service in 2011, after being admitted to hospital for a heart operation.\nPrince Philip merrily waved to the public as he made his way to his car after the church service\nThis lady in her festive blanket, Father Christmas earmuffs, tinsel and Union Jack flag, waited patiently for the royals - and it paid off when Prince Harry came over to greet her\nPrince Harry and Princess Eugenie stopped to wish members of the public a Merry Christmas\nThe Princess Royal stopped to talk to the Reverent outside St Mary Magdalene Church\nPrince Andrew walks with his daughter Princess Beatrice, who wore a fetching gingham and red hairband\nWith his wife at home ill, the Duke of Edinburgh maintained tradition as he went to the service\nPrince Philip walks with Sophie, Countess of Wessex who looked suitable festive in her red and extravagant black feathered hat\nThe service at Sandringham is one of the highlights in the Royal calendar, in which members of the family spend quality time with one another\nChristmas with the Middleton's: William and Kate, Prince George and Princess Charlotte and Kate's brother and sister, Pippa and James with Carol and Michael Middleton instead attended a service in Berkshire\nTHE STYLISH ROYALS: GEORGE DONS £120 WOOL COAT WHILE KATE RECYCLES HOBBS JACKET Prince George, Princess Charlotte and the Duchess of Cambridge made for a very stylish family on Christmas Day As they attended the Christmas service this morning, the Duchess of Cambridge and her children wrapped up warm in their festive coordinating outfits. The Duchess of Cambridge dressed Prince George in a £120 Pepa & Co wool coat. Similar garments were still available today in grey, blue and red, but in limited sizes. Kate often turns to the Spanish boutique designer company for pieces for her children. George's double-breasted wool coat features velvet detail on the buttons, collar and side pockets. His warm coat was accompanied by his trademark look of socks pulled high, while Charlotte teamed festive red tights with a navy coat, and wore her hair tucked behind her ears. Kate kept warm in a festive-coloured stole and coat which looked similar to one she wore in 2013 that was a hit with royal fashion watchers. The Hobbs Unlimited Celeste wool coat has a belt at the waist and belted detail at the wrists. In 2013, royal officials said the coat was burgundy in colour, but the fashion community favoured chestnut brown. Meanwhile at Sandringham, Princess Eugenie wore a red felt cocktail hat by Sarah Cant and a black clutch bag by London handbag designer Stacy Chan.\nThis is the second time William and Kate have spent time with the Middleton family over Christmas.\nIn 2012, Kate was suffering with severe morning sickness while pregnant with Prince George so stayed with her parents.\nIn another unusual move for the family, Kate and William chose to take their children along to church this morning - a move they would not usually make at Sandringham.\nPrince George and Princess Charlotte attended their first Christmas communion service at the 12th century St Mark's Church in Englefield near the Middleton family home.\nThe Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and their children were joined by newly-engaged Pippa Middleton and James Matthews for the service where the pair recently announced they will marry next year.\nBells rang as the Royals arrived outside the church where some 100 smiling locals were seen entering for its 10.30am Sunday service.\nPrince George walked along holding his father's hand while and Princess Charlotte was carried in her mother's arms.\nPrince William could be seen talking animatedly to his son as they strolled through the church yard, as the youngster wrapped up warm against the cold wind in a smart grey woollen coat.\nThe Duchess of Cambridge looked stylish and suitable festive as she recycled her maroon Hobbs coat previously worn in March 2013.\nTHE QUEEN'S CHRISTMAS SPEECH: 'ORDINARY PEOPLE DOING EXTRAORDINARY THINGS' In her Christmas the Queen praised the 'inspirational' Team GB athletes as well as the achievements of 'ordinary people doing extraordinary things' Here is the Queen's Christmas message in full: 'There was a time when British Olympic medal winners became household names because there were so few of them. But the 67 medals at this year's Games in Rio and 147 at the Paralympics meant that the GB medallists' reception at Buckingham Palace was a crowded and happy event. 'Throughout the Commonwealth there were equally joyful celebrations. Grenada, the Bahamas, Jamaica and New Zealand won more medals per head of population than any other countries. 'Many of this year's winners spoke of being inspired by athletes of previous generations. Inspiration fed their aspiration; and having discovered abilities they scarcely knew they had, these athletes are now inspiring others. 'A few months ago, I saw inspiration of a different kind when I opened the new Cambridge base of the East Anglian Air Ambulance, where Prince William works as a helicopter pilot. It was not hard to be moved by the dedication of the highly skilled doctors, paramedics and crew, who are called out on average five times a day. 'But to be inspirational you don't have to save lives or win medals. I often draw strength from meeting ordinary people doing extraordinary things: volunteers, carers, community organisers and good neighbours; unsung heroes whose quiet dedication makes them special. 'They are an inspiration to those who know them, and their lives frequently embody a truth expressed by Mother Teresa, from this year Saint Teresa of Calcutta. She once said: 'Not all of us can do great things. But we can do small things with great love'. 'This has been the experience of two remarkable organisations, The Duke of Edinburgh's Award and The Prince's Trust, which are 60 and 40 years old this year. These started as small initiatives but have grown beyond any expectations, and continue to transform young people's lives. 'To mark my 90th birthday, volunteers and supporters of the six hundred charities of which I have been patron came to a lunch in The Mall. Many of these organisations are modest in size but inspire me with the work they do. 'From giving friendship and support to our veterans, the elderly or the bereaved; to championing music and dance; providing animal welfare; or protecting our fields and forests, their selfless devotion and generosity of spirit is an example to us all. 'When people face a challenge they sometimes talk about taking a deep breath to find courage or strength. In fact, the word 'inspire' literally means 'to breathe in'. 'But even with the inspiration of others, it's understandable that we sometimes think the world's problems are so big that we can do little to help. On our own, we cannot end wars or wipe out injustice, but the cumulative impact of thousands of small acts of goodness can be bigger than we imagine. 'At Christmas, our attention is drawn to the birth of a baby some two thousand years ago. It was the humblest of beginnings, and his parents, Joseph and Mary, did not think they were important. 'Jesus Christ lived obscurely for most of his life, and never travelled far. He was maligned and rejected by many, though he had done no wrong. 'And yet, billions of people now follow his teaching and find in him the guiding light for their lives. I am one of them because Christ's example helps me see the value of doing small things with great love, whoever does them and whatever they themselves believe. 'The message of Christmas reminds us that inspiration is a gift to be given as well as received, and that love begins small but always grows. 'I wish you all a very happy Christmas.' The message was transmitted on television and radio at 3pm on Christmas Day and was produced this year by ITN. It will be available on the Royal Channel on YouTube and will also be shown in Commonwealth countries.\nWellwishers waited excitedly with their Union Jack flags to greet members of the royal family - and this lady was in luck later in the day when Prince Harry stopped to say hello\nExcited members of the public have gathered near St Mary Magdalene Church in Norfolk in an attempt to catch a glimpse of the royals}}
{{Staff and students are celebrating after their school was named in the top 10 in the North East.\nWhitley Bay High School was ranked seventh in the Parent Power, The Sunday Times School Guide 2018.\nThe Parent Power identifies the 2,000 highest-achieving schools in the UK, ranked by their recent examination results.\nAnd those at Whitley Bay High were delighted with the national recognition.\nHeadteacher Steve Wilson said: “We were very pleased to be recognised for our achievements at GCSE and A-Level in The Sunday Times Schools Guide 2018.\n“Our GCSE and A-Level results were again excellent this year and reflect the very hard work of our students and staff.\n“Over 80 per cent of our Year 11 students achieved the new higher grades in both English and maths. 30 per cent of all GCSE grades were A*/A or the equivalent 7,8 or 9 grades.\n“What is even more pleasing is that students of all abilities make fantastic progress at GCSE at Whitley Bay High School – many of whom then go on to study in our Sixth Form.\n“At A-Level, the average grade was a B, with 56 per cent of all grades being A* to B. This is an excellent achievement\n“These results highlight not only the hard work of students but the determination of our staff to make learning interesting and fun.\n“Staff spend a huge amount of time creating lessons that allow students to thrive and go on to achieve grades well above national predictions.”\n“We want students to develop a love of learning and this is achieved through the exciting lessons our staff provide.\n“This, combined with the great relationships that exist between staff and students alongside the wealth of extra-curricular opportunities means students thoroughly enjoy their time at Whitley Bay High School and go on to achieve outstanding results.”}}
{{As I am now in my seventh decade on this earth I often have thoughts of “What have I... READ MORE}}
{{A worrying video has emerged allegedly showing England fans singing racist songs in Russia during the World Cup.\nSeveral supporters appeared to be reciting shocking anti-Semitic and pro-Adolf Hitler songs while standing in a pub.\nThe insults were aimed at Tottenham’s Jewish fans, who often receive racist abuse from rival supporters.\nMORE: Man loves his job so much he got his company logo tattooed on his chest\nConfirmed - two English soccer fans make Nazi salutes and sing anti-semitic songs near the site of the battle of St… twitter.com/i/web/status/1… —\nBryan MacDonald (@27khv) June 20, 2018\nThe clip emerged following England’s 2-1 win against Tunisia on Monday, in which Spurs striker Harry Kane scored two goals.\nThe footage was allegedly filmed in the Galleriya Pub, in Volgograd, where the game had been played.\nSo far England fans have been well behaved at the tournament and have been mingling with other supporters without any trouble.\nAdvertisement\nAdvertisement\nThe Three Lions are due to play their next Group G game against Panama on Sunday.\nThe game will kick-off at 3pm at the Nizhny Novgorod Stadium, in Nizhny, Novgorod.\nMetro.co.uk has contacted the FA for a comment on the footage.\nMORE: Stranger donates £250,000 to fund treatment for terminally ill girl, 3\nMORE: 9-year-old gets bullied for loving pink so his family all wear lipstick in support}}
{{Full text available to online subscribers only. To purchase an online subscription, please click here.\nIf you are a current online subscriber, please click here to login.}}
{{A DUBLIN father is facing a jail sentence for neglecting his son’s education after the teenager missed more than 300 days of school in just over two years.\nA DUBLIN father is facing a jail sentence for neglecting his son’s education after the teenager missed more than 300 days of school in just over two years.\nFather facing jail after son missed more than 300 days of school in just over two years\nThe man did not turn up for his hearing at Dublin District Court but was convicted in his absence. A warrant was issued and a date for sentence in September was set by Judge John Brennan who described the case as “appalling”.\nA parent could be fined up to €1,000 and jailed for a month if convicted of breaking the Education (Welfare) Act for not complying with an official warnings about a child’s school attendance. Under the Act the minimum school leaving age was raised to 16 years or the completion of three years of post-primary education.\nThe man, who had a history of failing to attend two previous hearings, was tried in his absence in a prosecution brought by Tusla, Child and Family Agency. The boy’s parents did not live together but had a shared custody arrangement, the court was told. The mother was fined €400 last year.\nA breakdown of the teen’s attendance was given by an education and welfare officer. In the 2015-2016 school year the boy was absent for 118 days out of a scheduled 167, the following year he missed 142 days out of 164 and in third year between September and the end of term in December 2017 the boy did not turn up on 65 days out of 73 days. He was not there on 325 days over the entire period and missed chunks of his curriculum.\nHis secondary school principal told Judge Brennan the teenager entered first year in September 2015. Attendance became an issue after one month and “became a real issue in November so much so his year head invited the parents to attend a meeting but no parents attended”.\nA few months later, the court heard, the boy arrived at school and told staff he had taken a number of tablets. They were unable to get through to the parents when they tried to phone them.\nStaff brought the boy, who is now in his mid-teens, to hospital and remained with him for three to four hours until the mother arrived.\nThe court heard that the father could not be contacted when attempts were made to ring him on the phone number he had provided. In cross-examination, the school head told the court the man had claimed he dropped his son off but he would not stay. The court also heard that the teenager had been staying at his father’s on days he was supposed to be going to school.\nThe court also heard he failed to attend meetings offered by an education and welfare officer and the school found him uncontactable. A range of support was offered: a lunch time club, extra curricular activities, psychotherapy, a reduced time-table, one-to-one tuition and a home-school liaison co-ordinator. It had been hoped this would help re-engage the boy in education but they were not availed of, the court heard.\nThe school realised it was not working out and the boy was moved to an alternative to mainstream educational course in third year. The father was invited to engage in that process too but did not get involved, the court heard. The teen should have been sitting the Junior Cert exams this year but that was not possible because he has missed so much of his curriculum, the principal said adding that the boy’s social skills had also been negatively affected. The father was found guilty and Judge John Brennan heard the man, who is in his forties, had previous convictions for breaching a barring order, criminal damage as well as drugs and motoring offences.\nJudge Brennan said it was an appalling situation and a “plethora” of support services been offered. A custodial sentence was being considered, he told the man's barrister.\nOnline Editors}}
{{One person has been reported dead and over 100 houses destroyed after a rainstorm swept through 15 villages in Illela Local Government Area of Sokoto State.\nThe Council Chairman of the area, Alhaji Abdullahi Haruna told NAN that seven other persons, including a mother and her three children, sustained various degrees of injuries during the rainstorm.\nAccording to him, “The local government council secretariat, schools and other public places are among the buildings destroyed by the storm.\n“The strong wind and heavy rain started around 5 p.m. on Friday and lasted for 30 minutes, but the damage it caused was enormous.\n“So far, we have been able to identify more than 100 houses destroyed by the rainstorm. A committee has been set up to assess the extent of the damage.”\nThe chairman further attributed the extent of the destruction on the use of substandard building materials for building in the area.\n“We call on the Works Department of the local government to ensure that people comply with the standard building regulations forthwith.\n“Meanwhile responses from the State Emergency Management Agency and the National Emergency Management Agency for assistance have been satisfactory.\n“On our part, we are waiting for the report of the committee before deciding on what to do for the victims.’’\nAlso speaking on the incident, the Head of Sokoto Zonal Operations of NEMA, Suleiman Muhammad, told the News Agency of Nigeria that the agency had been notified about the disaster.\n“The agency will soon dispatch a technical team to assess the situation before deciding on the type of relief materials to donate to the victims,’’ Muhammad said.}}
{{Greek conservative leader Kyriakos Mitsotakis on Friday vowed to step up criticism of the leftist-led government’s immigration policy following an eight-month political hiatus mandated by record-breaking arrivals and concerns about Grexit.\n“Regrettably, on many of the issues on which there seemed to be an agreement with the government, we have not seen the necessary progress,” said Mitsotakis after a meeting with the European Migration Commissioner Dimitris Avramopoulos at New Democracy’s new headquarters in Moschato, southern Athens.\nThe opposition, Mitsotakis said, wants to see stricter separation between migrants and refugees, the establishment of pre-departure centers for the return of economic migrants to their countries of origin, and better use of European Union funds.\nThe visit by Avramopoulos, a former ND heavyweight, was seen by analysts as a symbolic gesture of unity.\n“I will be on your side in this new effort,” Avramopoulos told Mitsotakis, who took over the party’s helm in January.}}
{{What could have been a major tragedy was on Saturday averted by the combined efforts of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) and the Lagos State Fire Service when a tanker fully loaded with 33,000 litres of PMS fell on the Anthony Bridge Inward Gbagada.\nAccording to an eyewitness account, the incident which occurred at about midnight on Saturday was as a result of two trucks struggling to overtake each other collided, leaving the fuel tanker fallen on its side while the other one sped away.\nGeneral Manager of LASEMA, Mr. Adesina Tiamiyu who confirmed the incident, said that at about 12:15am, a call came at the agency’s call centre to alert about the accident.\n“We discovered that the fuel in the tanker was leaking heavily from the three compartments and men of the Lagos State Fire Service were on ground to blanket the fuel with chemicals and foam to reduce the level of combustible capacity to explode. We traced the path of the leaking fuel into the compound of Greensprings Schools in Anthony and thus also run through the underground gutters emptying this into the Obanikoro canal.\n“The Fire Services pumped massive chemicals in its path to diffuse the powers of the fuel and LASEMA and other Emergency Response Team went into the neighbourhood to evacuate people and asking everybody to stop all forms of cooking and took them to safety,” he said.\nThe LASEMA GM said it took us over eight hours to bring the situation under control.\nTiamiyu said the State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode at about 3am, came to the scene to see things for himself and gave instructions to LASEMA, who coordinated the rescue efforts to ensure the situation is handled diligently and carefully to ensure no fire incident is recorded.\nHe said LASEMA brought in its heavy duty equipments from the newly commissioned Lagos Response Unit (LRU) in Cappa Oshodi including The Crane “Charlie” and other support equipment to finally lift up the truck from its fallen position and it was towed to safety by another Heavy duty tow truck known as “Super Metro”.\nHe said after the recovery of the truck off the scene, the Fire Service poured foam and chemicals on the road to wash off the fuel within the driving vicinity, flushed the gutters from inside the Greensprings Schools and at about 7.50am,the road, on both sides were open for free vehicular movement.\n“We were able to achieve this feat because LASEMA has the equipment and the capacity including a team of other Responders like the Fire Service, Rapid Response Squad, Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) and the Lagos State Ambulance Service (LASAMBUS) who all cooperated to ensure a hitch free operation,” he said.\nLagos State Government\nGet Our Top Stories Everyday, Enter Your Email Address:}}
{{I've been through big hurricanes before. I've got a plan to ride out the next one.\nI'm new to the area and feel unprepared, but I plan to prepare soon.\nI've seen the damage these storms bring and I plan to evacuate.\nI don't need to prepare because I know local officials will take care of me.\nVote\nView Results}}
{{MUMBAI: Singer Shaan is set to release a song on Wednesday using a variety of musical instruments from across the world, which is also the World Music Day.\nFrom Dizi, the Chinese flute to the Bodhrán, the Irish drum to other unique instruments like Abakua, Cowbell, Bongo, Timbales, Bagpipes, Tabla among others, a variety of instruments from around the world will be heard in the song.\n"When I travel, I always stop at every roadside musical performance. It helps me understand the vibe of the place better and in a strange way makes me feel a part of their community. Music plays such an important part in making the world smaller and happier. That's why we thought of creating one song that demonstrates all these emotions together, give it a listen," Shaan said in a statement.\nThe song will be released on his wife Radhika's artist management company's website and also on YouTube and Facebook.\n"This song showcases the power of music in its true sense. Once you hear it we are sure it will be a permanent part of your playlist," said Radhika.\n(Source:IANS)}}
{{Rogers Media uses cookies for personalization, to customize its online advertisements, and for other purposes. Learn more or change your cookie preferences. Rogers Media supports the Digital Advertising Alliance principles. By continuing to use our service, you agree to our use of cookies.}}
{{In an interview with CNN's Anderson Cooper , Donald Trump says there will be no pathway to legal status for undocumented immigrants unless they leave and come back.}}
{{Vadim Grigoryan/\nBack in April, leading French luxury conglomerate LVMH and American artist Jeff Koons presented to the world a multi-million dollar collaboration combining six iconic works of art with the world’s best-known leather goods label. And they held the coming out party at the world’s best-known museum: the Louvre, home to French kings from Francois I to Louis XIV.\nBasically, the collaboration was an extension of Koons’ “Gazing Ball” genre taken a step further. The artist emblazoned Various LVMH classic handbag models with hand-reproduced copies of some of the best-known (out-of-copyright) works of art hanging on the walls of the Louvre: DaVinci’s Mona Lisa (1503-06), Titian’s Mars, Venus & Cupid (1546), Rubens’ The Tiger Hunt (1615-16), Fragonard’s Girl with Dog (1770) and Van Gogh’s Wheatfield with Cypresses (1889). The bags bear both the famous LV logo and Koons’ initials, and a princely price tag: 2100 Euros (approx. $2500 USD), roughly three times the cost of the classic “Speedy” duffle-shaped handbag.\nThe reviews of the project, called simply "Masters" were mixed. Many marketers didn’t get it; fashionistas were cynically bemused, the French overall were typically dismissive (“Something an American might buy in those tourist stalls in the rue de Rivoli”).\nLVMH\nBorderline Obnoxious?\nOne person who did “get it” at the time and who applauds the collaboration is Vadim Grigoryan (@vadim_de_grainville ) a marketer specializing in corporate art projects, who lectures on brands and art at his MBA alma mater, the INSEAD Business School in Fontainebleau - when he’s not helping businesses, such as spirits start-ups and perfume companies (Thierry Mugler), with cultural engagements.\n“This is a massive coup d’état,” Grigoryan says of the LVMH-Koons collaboration. “It is obviously over the top and borderline obnoxious and that is actually what makes it acceptable and interesting to the savvy shopper, rather than to the uninitiated. First of all, you have to know who Jeff Koons is to appreciate the attitude behind it. And you have to appreciate the self-inflicted ironic take on LVMH – as though the brand is laughing at itself and sharing the joke with you. And you can appropriate some of the most iconic images at the same time only once in history.”\nBut will it sell handbags? “That’s not really the point,” says Grigoryan. “Probably the coverage it’s received has already covered the costs involved (note: Koons’ fee is said to be in excess of $1-million). And it could open the door to other possibilities, though this sort of collaboration wouldn’t work with every artist. It wouldn’t work with Damien Hurst, for example, in my opinion, as I believe he is less regarded by the intellectual core of the art community.”\nBut collaborations such as that between LVMH and Koons are looking more and more like the way of the future, as companies focus on their “brand,” engaging in storytelling and creating a universe for the brand. Indeed marketing and art have similar roots.\nGrigoryan argues that both art and marketing exist because of he subject, the recipient or the spectator – basically both art and marketing are communication vehicles. Both have a message. “All artists care that their art is understood by the audience they aim at,” opines Grigoryan. “Both art and marketing create images.”}}
{{Since its initial inception in 1995, as Insomniac “The World’s Only Hip Hop Industry Publication”™ has progressed from focusing on the business of Hip Hop to also covering the entertainment and media industries, however, always from an independent stand point. The industry magazine has... Read More}}
{{BIRMINGHAM, Ala. — An Alabama musician who said on social media that he’d like to shoot immigrants attempting to enter the United States says he’s losing work because of the post.\nBirmingham guitarist Phillip McCain said on Facebook that he doesn’t have any sympathy for immigrants trying to enter the country, even those seeking asylum. In the same post, he called liberalism a “mental disorder.”\nThe post went viral. McCain tells al.com he has since lost his job with a band, plus $3,000 in future performance fees and three solo shows.\nMcCain says he was only expressing his opinion that he wants to protect the United States’ borders at any cost.\nA Mexican restaurant was one of the venues that canceled a McCain show. The manager says he’s an immigrant and has a diverse clientele, and he feared McCain’s presence would hurt business.\nCopyright 2018 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.}}
{{IN honour of Canada 150 and to celebrate Canadian authors, Surrey Libraries is running What’s Your Favourite Canadian Book? contest.\nChief Librarian, Surinder Bhogal selects “Sky is Falling” by Kit Pearson as her favourite Canadian book.\n“Having my schooling years in East Africa and UK, I had not read many Canadian Children’s authors. I read Sky is Falling a couple of years ago when it was one of the Reading Link Challenge Titles and fell in love with it. Although it’s set during the Second World War, the themes of loneliness, fitting in and learning a new culture when moving to a new place are still relevant today; especially in Surrey with many newcomer families, e.g. the young Syrian refugees. This book actually made me cry – it has beautiful depiction of Canada and a hopeful message,” says Bhogal.\nWhat is your favourite? If you live or work in Surrey, Surrey Libraries want to hear from you. Give them the title of your favourite book and be entered to win a $100 gift card to the Central City Shopping Centre. Your favourite can be fiction or non-fiction, for children, teens or adults. You may enter online (www.surreylibraries.ca/canada150) or in branch. One entry per person but you may list more than one book if you have several favourites. The contest is open to all ages and ends July 7. A list of Surrey’s top favourites will be released later in July. You can also take a photo of your favourite book and tag them with #surreylibraries #surreycanada150. https://www.facebook.com/surreylibraries/photos/a.1714526381908947.1073741968.165928710102063/1714526441908941/?type=3&theater\nAnother way for adults to participate in Canada 150 activities at Surrey Libraries is to play their Summer Reads Canadian-themed Book Bingo. Read any five books in a row and enter to win an iPad. Bingo cards available online or in branch.}}
{{The video will start in 8 Cancel\nGet daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nThousands of people in Reading are expected tune in and watch Her Majesty the Queen deliver her Christmas Day speech.\nHer annual message will be broadcast to hundreds of millions of people in the 52 member states which are in the Commonwealth of Nations.\nQueen Elizabeth's festive broadcast has been an annual occurrence since 1952.\nThe Queen, who turned 90 this year, uses the speech as an opportunity to reflect on the year and all its major events, as well as her personal milestones.\nLast year she looked back at the joyous and harrowing events which marked 2015, including the birth of Princess Charlotte in May and the terrorist attacks in Paris and Tunisia.\nThe 2015 speech topped the Christmas Day TV ratings as nearly 7.5 million people watched the broadcast on the BBC and ITV.\nThis year her festive speech will be broadcast on BBC One, ITV, Sky 1, Sky News and BBC Radio 4 at 3pm on Christmas Day, Sunday December 25.}}
{{Plans for a new free school in Great Harwood have been given the green light by Hyndburn Borough Council.\nCouncillors agreed to support the plans for The Evergreen School after the school’s trustees presented their proposals at a Communities and Wellbeing Overview and Scrutiny committee meeting.\nThe school, which will be open to children aged 11 to 18, is hoped to be opening in September 2018.\nIt has been awarded a place on the New Schools Network’s Development Programme, which is designed to help groups that want to set up new free schools.\nTrustees are now preparing an application for government funding and their chances of success have been boosted after the council said the plans fit with its ‘strategic vision to improve the educational standards in the borough’.\nCouncil leader Miles Parkinson said: “The council supports the proposal for The Evergreen School, a new free school in Great Harwood to provide secondary education.\n“The creation of the school fits within the council’s strategic vision to improve the educational standards in the borough and address local industry and employment issues.”\nTrustees said the school will have a ‘distinct ethos’ and focus on STEM (science, technology, engineering and maths) subjects, sustainability and the environment, creativity, independence and community spirit.\nIt will also follow the national curriculum as well as offering pupils an ‘individualised learning experience’ through the use of project based learning, outdoor education and workshops with industry professionals.\nPolice Inspector Andy Moore, chairman of the trustees, said the school will provide parents and pupils with greater choice and help to raise education standards in the area.\nHe said: “The response to our plans has been really positive so it’s all systems go as we push on with our application for government funding.\n“We believe the addition of a new free school with a supportive, collaborative, outward focus could help promote an upward trajectory of school improvement across the town.\n“We aim for all pupils to achieve a minimum five A*-C GCSE including English and maths and achieve the Ebacc.”\nThe school’s trustees said they have already been inundated with expressions of interest from parents of prospective students since they unveiled their plans at the end of May.\nAny parents of prospective pupils who wish to register their interest or find out more are being invited to visit www.evergreen-school.uk .}}
{{The Marksmen perform a benefit concert at Granbury High School at 7 p.m. Monday, Oct. 2. Tickets are $15, proceeds go to the Key Club. Tickets will be available at the door, or from Kiwanis Club members, 972-757-1354.}}
{{Daily Express US President Donald Trump has said he will sign an executive order\nSky News has tweeted: "US President Donald Trump says he will sign an executive order to keep migrant families together at the border US Homeland Security secretary Kirstjen Nielsen is thought to be in the process of drafting an order which would end the controversial practice of splitting children up from their parents when they arrive at the border without the necessary paperwork. Mr Trump has confirmed thta he would be "signing something" stressing that he is keen to keep families togther. Ms Nielsen, who was today booed after visiting a Mexican restaurant, according to the BBC, is believed to be on her way to the White House to discuss the situation with Mr Trump's team.\nGETTY US President Donald Trump\nMr Trump's apparent climbdown follows days of tough tweets on the subject, in which he pointed the finger of blame at rival Democrats. Earlier today, he tweeted: "It’s the Democrats fault, they won’t give us the votes needed to pass good immigration legislation. "They want open borders, which breeds horrible crime. "Republicans want security. "But I am working on something – it never ends!}}
{{No motive is known for the crime at 1321 17th Ave. S., just west of Duane’s House of Pizza, said Deputy Chief Joe Anderson.\nOn Saturday, Dec. 24, a call went out at 4:19 a.m. for medical help at the home, police said. Three people, two men and one woman, were at the house when officers arrived.\nA 26-year-old Fargo man was found with a stab wound to the chest. He was taken to a hospital emergency room, where he later died from the injury. Officers arrested 31-year-old Timothy Lynn Porter of Fargo and he was booked into the Cass County Jail.\nDuring the preliminary police investigation, it was determined the two men were in a dispute. The nature of the dispute and Porter’s motive remain under investigation, police said. The victim was not able to make a statement to officers.\n“This was not a random attack. The individuals were known to each other,” Anderson said.\nThe victim’s family has been notified of the death and invoked their rights pursuant to Marsy’s Law, a state constitutional amendment meant to protect crime victims’ rights that was approved by voters in November. Because of that, Anderson said the department will not be releasing the victim’s name.\nPorter has an extensive criminal history in Cass County. Since 2003, he has been charged with 30 different crimes, ranging from two DUIs, possession of controlled substance, disorderly conduct and driving with a suspended license 11 different times.\nHe was convicted of at least two felonies, one for drug paraphernalia possession in 2003 and, in 2012, assaulting an officer and bouncer at Big D’s Bar & Grill and then spitting in the face of another officer.\nIt’s unknown at this time whether drugs or alcohol were involved in Saturday’s homicide, Anderson said.\nPorter’s sister, Lillian Porter, of Winnebago, Minn., said her brother lived at the small blue house where the homicide took place.\nNeighbor Jo Rosenberry, who saw police cars outside the home when she left for work Saturday morning, said “I was at work when my husband texted me the news. I was shocked.” Rosenberry said she didn't even know if anyone lived at the crime scene. “It was so quiet.”\nThe neighborhood has seen some vandalism and drug dealing, she said, and a drunk man tried breaking into her home in August, but she said “this has been a quiet street.” Her husband grew up there and said nothing like this has happened before.\n“It's unfortunate that it happened on Christmas Eve morning. It's going to be on my mind for a while,” she said.}}
{{Mother Nature has a great Christmas gift for most holidaymakers in New Zealand tomorrow, with most regions likely to receive sunshine.\nCantabrians have clearly been good this year, with temperatures forecast to reach near 30C in the region.\nSouthlanders seem to have been the naughtiest this year with a high of only about 18C expected - not that that's particularly cold for them, said a MetService spokesman.\n"Te Anau, the maximum there is 18 degrees, Gore 18 degrees as well - which makes sense because a front will move through them during the morning," he said.\nAdvertisement\n"It's got relatively cool air behind it - it's a cold front, but it's not catastrophic, it's pretty good for down there."\nSwimmers and beach soak in the sunshine at Mission Bay. Photo / Nick Reed\nHe said a trough could bring rain to parts of the western North Island, although most parts of the island should be fine.\n"Auckland should be pretty good for most of the day, with long fine spells and a few showers at night.\n"Wellington should miss most of the wet weather with a few showers and some clouds," he said.\nSouthland, West Coast, and Otago will likely see rain early on as the front moves up the country with rain developing late for Canterbury and Marlborough.\nToday, hundreds of people avoided the Christmas rush at supermarkets and malls to bask in the sun at Mission Bay.\nTrevor Whitmore was one such beach-goer who got out of the house with the family to enjoy the sun after a cold winter.\n"The sun was out - beautiful day to take the kids down to enjoy the beach.\n"They're loving it, you can see them throwing the frisbee around, so yeah, nah, they're going to enjoy a great Christmas Eve down here at Mission Bay," Whitmore said.\nNathaniel and Annaliese Whitmore play frisbee at Mission Bay Beach on Christmas Eve. Photo / Nick Reed\n• Whangarei: 25C with sunny spells and a chance of morning showers.\n• Auckland: 25C with long sunny spells, cloud increasing with a few showers at night.\n• Hamilton: 25C with long sunny spells and cloud increasing in the evening.\n• Tauranga: 23C, often cloudy with one or two showers and fine afternoon spells.\n• Whakatane Often cloudy with one or two showers, but some afternoon fine spell. Northerlies.\n• Rotorua 21C with cloudy periods, odd showers and northeasterly breezes.\n• Taupo 23C with morning cloud breaking. Chance of a shower from afternoon, then cloud returning evening. Northeasterlies.\n• Napier: 26C with some morning cloud then mostly sunny.\n• Gisborne 25C with some morning cloud, then mostly sunny. Northwest.\n• Whitianga 23C with sunny spells, chances of showers and light northeasterlies.\n• Palmerston North Sunny spells. Chance of a shower from afternoon. Northwesterlies.\n• New Plymouth 22C with cloudy periods and one or two showers, more frequent from evening. Northerlies.\n• Masterton 27C with sunny spells and jingle bells. Gusty northwest.\n• Whanganui 27C with sunny spells. Northwesterlies.\n• Wellington: 21C and often cloudy, some showers from afternoon to evening and strong northerly.\n• Nelson 23C with cloudy periods and a few showers, becoming fine in the afternoon. Rain overnight. Northerlies.\n• Christchurch: 30C with increasing cloud, occasional rain developing late.\n• Dunedin: 23C with increasing cloud, occasional rain from afternoon easing late.\n• Queenstown: 21C with occasional rain from late morning, clearing by evening.\nSource: MetService}}
{{WATCH: Pence Makes Surprise Christmas Visit To Afghanistan\nVice President Mike Pence made a surprise Thursday visit to Afghanistan to conduct war related meetings and greet U.S. troops in the country.\n“I look forward to being with our military tonight and an opportunity to extend to them the gratitude of the American people,” Pence told Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, according to the travel pool. “We believe that we are now on a path to achieve a lasting victory for freedom and security in Afghanistan,” he added. – READ MORE\nLike Our News? Then Help Support Our Independent Journalism! $ Donation Amount: We can only deliver independent news & Intel with your support. Keep our unique voice alive. Donate Now Select Payment Method PayPal\nCredit Card\nBank Account Personal Info First Name * Last Name Email Address *}}
{{As another school year passes the Luke Air Force Base, Ariz., Chapel teamed up with Fighter Country Partnership and the USO to prepare for the next Back-to-School Bash for upcoming students.\n“This year’s Back-to-School Bash took place 5:30-8:30 p.m., July 26,” Tech. Sgt. Melissa Gavin, 56th Fighter Wing resource management NCO-in-charge. “This is a big event where we set up a day of fun for families with school-aged children while giving out free resources.”\nThis year’s back to school bash was the third consecutive event held where Thunderbolts come together to assist families and students with the upcoming preparation costs for the next school year.\n“Last year was successful even though we had a major weather system come in,” Chaplain (Maj.) David Barns, 56th FW deputy wing chaplain. “The weather kept away some of our Thunderbolts, but it seems like each year the event grows in popularity. Last year we exceeded 400 attendees, but this year we are preparing for 800.”\nThe event is held for students in all grade levels, from first time students to high schoolers who are in need of supplies.\n“During the event, we handed out backpacks filled with school supplies,” said Barns. “While receiving these school supplies, Thunderbolts were able to enjoy some food while enjoying activities, music and prizes.”\n“This Back-to-School Bash is a fun way to end the summer vacation for students,” Barnes said. “I think this is a great morale booster for Thunderbolts. Every year we do this event, the community thanks us. We plan to keep it going, and I believe with all the help we get we can keep running the program for years to come.”}}
{{The late David Bowie's maddening and beautiful musical sequel to 'The Man Who Fell to Earth'\nA recording of ‘Lazarus’ at the Kings Cross Theatre will be streamed for three performances only in January 2021 to mark David Bowie’s seventy-fourth birthday (Jan 8) and the fifth anniversary of his death. Tickets can be purchased here.\nThis review is from 2016.\nA wealthy recluse, dying but somehow not dead, sits atop his New York tower, hallucinating his past and the music of David Bowie.\nIf it was difficult to see where Thomas Jerome Newton, the stranded alien protagonist of the 1976 film ‘The Man Who Fell To Earth’ ended, and Bowie – who played him – began, then that goes double for its musical sequel, ‘Lazarus’.\nCo-written by Enda Walsh and Bowie, ‘Lazarus’ catches up with Newton (Michael C Hall) in the present day, as he morosely drinks gin in his featureless apartment. There is little actual plot, but a sense of events finally comes to a head, as Newton’s hope and despair become manifested as ingénue the Girl (Sophia Anne Caruso) and the psychotic Valentine (Michael Esper). Meanwhile his new PA, Elly (Amy Lennox), finds her personality is being overwritten by that of Thomas’s lost love, Mary-Lou.\nIvo van Hove’s claustrophobic production is more like a mood than a story, a homage to Nicholas Roeg’s hallucinatory film, but also, perhaps, a window into the near-decade of seclusion that followed Bowie’s withdrawal from public life in 2004.\nDoes this make it a good musical? I dunno: it’s weirdly caught between aggressive artiness and a certain triteness. If you haven’t seen – and liked – the film, you’ll quite possibly be totally at sea here. If you do love its brooding vibes, you may cringe at a couple of moments where its icy aloofness is punctured by overly sincere, ‘X Factor’-style performances of a couple of numbers.\nHowever, I can’t help but feel it shouldn’t be viewed as just a musical. Even if he’d lived, Bowie had apparently sworn off further live shows, and I would guess ‘Lazarus’ was part-conceived as a substitute. Almost none of the songs – even the four moody new ones – feel integral to the plot, and could probably be swapped for something else without really changing the feel of the show. But as a concert setlist it makes perfect sense. Played by a live band and directed by a man famous for his love of rock music, it’s roughly 50/50 ‘new’ material (drawing partly on 2013 comeback album ‘The Next Day’) and classics that fit the elegiac mood (‘Life on Mars?’, ‘Absolute Beginners’, stripped down takes on ‘Changes’ and ‘”Heroes”’).\nUnlike Bowie’s towering final album ‘Blackstar’, ‘Lazarus’ is a flawed work. But I can’t help but love it, in the same way I love ‘Outside’ and ‘Reality’ and all those other flawed latter-day Bowie records. In no small part that’s down to Hall, magnificently other as the depressed immortal, and with a powerful vibrato that sounds uncannily like Bowie’s. But more than that, and casting objectivity to the wind, I feel moved by the very existence of ‘Lazarus’, which feels like Bowie’s final tour, testament and eccentric project all wrapped into one. It is not a valedictory romp through his greatest hits, but something rarer, more interesting and more frustrating: a last transmission from a dying star.}}
{{It's a Christmas tradition for many families: Taking on the role of Secret Santa or a Christmas Angel.}}
{{Ski Utah and each ski resort released their weekend snow totals Sunday morning and things are looking good on the slopes for another #UtahPowderDay.\nHere’s a look at how much is waiting for you across the state…\nAlta Ski Resort – 9″ in the last 24 hours, they report a storm total of 16 inches.\nBeaver Mountain – 10″ in the last 24 hours, crews report weekend totals of around 15 inches\nWe got 15 inches of POWDA from that last storm and the snow is still coming! Come into our ski shop and… https://t.co/lSMdtSQYLG — Beaver Mountain (@skithebeav) December 24, 2017\nBrighton Resort – 11″ in the last 24 hours, with a weekend total of 18 inches.\nDeer Valley Resort – 11″ in the last 24 hours, Deer Valley is looking at 16 inches in the last 72 hours\nDon’t sleep in! It’s a powder day. 11” of new snow in the last 24 hours at @Deer_Valley Resort. pic.twitter.com/Ei32vHAwO9 — Deer_Valley (@Deer_Valley) December 24, 2017\nPark City Mountain Resort – 8″ in the last 24 hours, with a base depth of 20 inches.\nPowder Mountain – 15″ in the last 48 hours (Just in time for opening day)\nSanta delivered early! Powder Mountain is pleased to announce that Sundown Lift will begin turning tomorrow, December 24th, from 9am to 4:30pm! #PowMow #PowDay #OpeningDay pic.twitter.com/Zr2C9eGzQ9 — Powder Mountain (@PowMow) December 23, 2017\nSnow Basin – 11″ in the last 24 hours bringing the weekend total up to 17 inches.\nSnowbird – 12″ in the last 24 hours with a total depth of 40 inches.\nSolitude – 8″ in the last 24 hours but 16 inches in the past 72 hours.\nAs of yesterday Little Cottonwood and Big Cottonwood have restricted road access. That means if you want to take a canyon cruise you’ll need four-wheel drive or chains.}}
{{And today, we come ‘round to Christmas once again. All is still on this morning, and, for a brief moment in time, there is a semblance of peace.\nFamilies are gathering, presents are being opened, prayers are being said, tears are being shed and memories are being made, just as they have been since that first Christmas so many years ago when a mother gave birth to her firstborn son and laid him in a manger, wrapped in swaddling clothes.\nMuch has changed since that night in Bethlehem, yet the remnants of that celebration, the stillness of that day, the peace of that moment continues every time Dec. 25th rolls around. As fleeting as it may be, we all find the best part of ourselves to put on display for all the world to see for this most special 24 hours each year.\nOur challenge is to find a way to embody the best that Christmas offers each year — the bright eyes of wonderment from little children; the deep, chill-bump kind of love we feel as we hug our families and friends close; the roller-coaster like feeling that gnaws at our stomachs as we look toward the sky, perhaps hoping to catch a glimpse of the star that once led shepherds and kings to a stable; the awe we can’t explain, yet feel, as we hear, once again, the Christmas story read from the gospel of Luke.\nIt’s the magic of Christmas, the feeling that takes us back to a simpler time when we truly were happy children, satisfied with apples and oranges in our stocking, thrilled at gifts, no matter how small, that were left under our brightly lit Christmas trees, and tickled to death to share a table with aunts and uncles, cousins and neighbors as we offered thanks for what we had been given and prayed for those who didn’t have as much as we were blessed to have.\nChristmas was about being together, sharing laughter, making memories and recalling times past; it was about singing those familiar carols like Away in a Manger, The First Noel and Silent Night; and it was about remembering why we all came together in the first place, why we celebrate this season of the year.\nThe gifts were secondary parts of the celebration.\nToday, in this fast-paced, often greedy world we live in, we forget just how much fun we had, how much joy we brought and experienced.\nBut today, on this Dec. 25, 2016, we hope each of us can return to the Christmases that made us smile, that brought a tear to our eye and put true joy in our heart, and then share that with our children, making the memories for them that will last far longer than the latest video game or the coolest toy.\nToday let’s come ‘round to Christmas the way it used to be, the way it should be — simple and filled with love — just like the first one.}}
{{The King of Pop is headed to New York.\nAccording to Variety, The Michael Jackson Estate and Columbia Live Stage announced on Tuesday that a Michael Jackson musical is in the works, inspired by the life of the influential entertainer. The show is expected to play on Broadway in 2020. There is no word on the title of the show or which theater it’ll play in yet.\nMusic for the project will pull from MJ’s catalogue of hits — including “Thriller,” “Smooth Criminal,” “Beat It,” and “Don’t Stop ‘Til You Get Enough.” Ballet star and Tony Award winner Christopher Wheeldon (An American in Paris) will direct and choreograph the show.\nThe musical will probably enter the same territory of other “juke box” shows like Jersey Boys, On Your Feet and Beautiful which documented the music of folks like The Four Seasons, Gloria Estefan and Carole King respectively. It’s yet to be revealed if the controversial aspects of Michael’s life – his 2005 child sexual abuse trial, the baby dangling, etc. — will be explored like biopics tend to do. We’ll keep you updated if any major updates should surface.\nUntil then, are you ready to buy your ticket or nah?\nThe Stage Is Set: Michael Jackson Musical Heads To Broadway was originally published on globalgrind.com\nAlso On 101.1 The Wiz:}}
{{* C$ at C$1.0414 vs US$, or 96.02 U.S. cents * Bank of Canada holds interest rate at 1 pct * BoC offers conditions for steady rates, says next move up * Bernanke expects to trim bond buying but timing flexible * Bond prices rise across curve By Solarina Ho TORONTO, July 17 (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar weakened against the U.S. dollar on Wednesday after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke reaffirmed his intention to scale back bond-buying and the Bank of Canada outlined conditions for holding interest rates steady. The U.S. dollar strengthened broadly after Bernanke stayed close to the timetable he outlined last month for pulling back on the bond-buying program, but he emphasized that the timing is not set in stone should economic conditions change, and he highlighted the risks for the economy of weak inflation. "The Fed is still trying to make this very clear distinction that tapering is not (monetary-policy) tightening. So tapering, yes, potentially. Tightening rates, definitely not," said Shaun Osborne, chief currency strategist at TD Securities. "Just the mere fact that the tapering prospect remains alive has actually given the U.S. dollar a bit of support," he added. The Canadian dollar, which was underperforming against all major currencies except the Japanese yen, finished its North American session at C$1.0414 versus the U.S. dollar, or 96.02 U.S. cents. That was weaker than Tuesday's close of C$1.0366, or 96.47 U.S. cents. The Bank of Canada's first policy announcement under new Governor Stephen Poloz stayed close to the those made under his predecessor, Mark Carney, saying that borrowing costs will eventually rise. The bank held its overnight rate at 1 percent, but was more explicit than in the past in highlighting the factors that will affect its rate decisions. "The release was consistent with our view that the Bank of Canada is pretty much on the sidelines until the Fed move," said Darcy Briggs, a portfolio manager at Bissett Investment Management, part of Franklin Templeton Investments. "You've got David and Goliath. What happens in the States has a very significant impact here." "The (Canadian dollar) did sell off, but then again, the - the U.S. basket of currencies - it spiked up. So was it a Canadian story, or was it a U.S. dollar story because of Bernanke speaking? Difficult to discern." Osborne said the Canadian dollar would face challenges firming past C$1.04 against the greenback, and he saw it trading in a near-term range of C$1.0350 and C$1.0450. Factory activity in the U.S. mid-Atlantic region on Thursday and Canadian inflation data on Friday could drive provide further direction for the market. Following the Bank of Canada decision and its governor's comments, traders bid up the price of shorter-term Canadian government bonds slightly, sending yields lower. The move showed there was little concern that the central bank will rush to increase interest rates. The price of the two-year bond was up 5.5 Canadian cents to yield 1.092 percent, and the benchmark 10-year bond climbing 30 Canadian cents to yield 2.372 percent.}}
{{It is no longer question whether Christmas celebration is among the famous celebration of its kind in the Christendom. Christmas has always been an inciting and momentous period to some Christian churches and its members.\nThough the celebrants sometimes do vehemently indulge themselves in the act as a result of their love for this celebration, they fail to recognise one fact that, ‘the length of their food is being measured and is capable of measurement’, which at time makes them cross bounds and trample on others religious and constitutional rights which invariably cause mishap and upheavals in friendships, families and the human community at large during and after the celebration.\nThere have been several attempts to curb the problems emanating from the said celebration, minimising its negative effects on mankind but these efforts have been abortive due to the complicated nature of the outcome that arise from this celebration.\nThis work will seek to give some constitutional guidelines and measures that “may” (it is under probability that it may help, or may fail to be of the needed help) help in curbing the menace. This work has deliberately refused to touch the authenticity and scriptural validity of the said celebration for some reasons that are borne in the mind of the writer. This work does not in any way promote the said celebration, take note please.\nIn addressing the conflicts that are faced with, it is imperative to examine some relevant sections of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended (herein after referred to as the constitution). Section 38 of the 1999 Nigerian constitution as amended has provided for the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion.\nThe section states as follows: “every person shall be entitled to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, including freedom to change his religion or belief and freedom (either alone in the community with others and in the public or private) to manifest and propagate his religion or belief in worship, teaching, practice and observance”.\nThere are some key words like “thought” and “conscience” that will be of immense help in bringing out the thrust of this discussion. Nigerian government have respected our conscience by protecting and enshrining it in provisions of the constitution. It therefore means that we all have the right to worship anything we like at any time.\nBringing it home, we all have the right to choose either to celebrate Christmas or not. Whether it is biblical to celebrate it or not, we owe our fellow humans the duty of respecting their beliefs. The fact that you’re celebrating Christmas does not give you the effrontery to question a non-celebrating fellow, it does not in any way make you better than him, and he has the right to take his own stand.\nOn the contrary, you that are not celebrating for your personal reasons, you are in no way capacitated to judge the celebrant, you have no right whatsoever to interfere with his own celebration. As he respected your right for not celebrating, you owe him reciprocation in this regard.\nIt is sad to say that many Nigerians do not know the implication of altering or interfering with others religious activities and celebrations like Christmas and the liabilities incurred from it. It should be noted that the aggrieved party (the party that his celebration was interfered) can seek redress in any court of competent jurisdiction and claim damages accordingly. We should not take any religious celebration as an instrument of trampling on others constitutional rights.\nSome people even worsen the situation when they become the ones spearheading such celebrations. Most parents have disown their adult children from taking a stand not to indulge in such celebration, spouses divorcing each other because of such celebrations, invariably making them become extremist. Some of the celebrants have become strong enemies to their friends for not compromising standard regarding this celebration such as rejecting gifts and not giving a reasonable or expected compliment of the season.\nSo the question is not whether we will be extremists, but what kind of extremists we will be. Will we be extremists for hate or for love? Will we be extremists for the preservation of injustice or for the extension of justice? In that dramatic scene on Calvary's hill three men were crucified. We must never forget that all three were crucified for the same crime--the crime of extremism. Two were extremists for immorality, and thus fell below their environment. The other, Jesus Christ, was an extremist for love, truth and goodness, and thereby rose above his environment. - Martin Luther King Jr.\nWhat if your acquaintances do not even believe in Christ thus not treating Christmas with high esteem, what will you? Will you kill them? Will you not respect their right to freedom of worship and conscience? Or, what if these friends do not believe in the existence of the almighty God as our atheist friends? Will you exterminate them? What will be your grouse with them as per Christmas? Why not take your non celebrating member in the same way as he is entitled to his own opinion?\nIt is immaterial whether an individual is standing alone in a family, in a village or in a state to reject any religious celebration; this will not in any way affect the validity of his stand and such decision MUST be respected.\nReligion is EXTREMELY PERSONAL AND NEVR CAN IT BE IMPOSED on any citizen of Nigeria. We need to respect others religious beliefs for they do not owe us any explanation why they choose to worship the way they do but they owe their GOD(S) and their conscience.\nTilting to the ecclesiastical jurisprudence a little, Jesus said “All things, therefore, that you want men to do to you, you also must do to them. This, in fact, is what the Law and the Prophets mean” Matthew 7:12.\nFrom the above, it is important we try to empathise, substituting ourselves in the shoes of our neighbours, seeing whether we would love people to respect our feelings and beliefs if we were in their shoe and do same accordingly.\nChristmas has posted a challenge on us all. Let’s see the extent we will respect the biblical counsel and constitutional right to freedom of thought, religion and conscience, by honouring others decision and stand regarding Christmas celebrations in our twin capacity as: good Christians and as respectful obedient citizens.\nMy humble appeal is that we marry our similarities and respect our differences when it comes to issue of religion and conscience. Let us not use things like these to bring up unnecessary problems in the human society and our respective families.\nMay I conclude with the powerful words of Martin Luther King Jr when he said: “On some positions, cowardice asks the question, is it expedient? And then expedience comes along and asks the question, is it politic? Vanity asks the question, is it popular? Conscience asks the question, is it right? There comes a time when one must take the position that is neither safe nor politic nor popular, but he must do it because conscience tells him it is right”.\nThank you.\nEdikan Ekanem is a student of University of Uyo, a contemporary writer and a columnist who remains politically neutral. He can be reached at 08130015006 or [email protected]}}
{{How to watch the Doctor Who Christmas special 2016: All you need to know to watch the Doctor's Christmas adventure.\nThere's a whole load of festive shows and films to catch up with this year, but many will be most excited for the return of Doctor Who. Yes, the Doctor is on his way back to our screens for a special Christmas Day instalment entitled 'The Return of Doctor Mysterio'.\nIt looks like the special will see the Doctor team up with a superhero known as The Ghost and a reporter named Lucy to defeat a load of aliens with nefarious aims. Sounds very festive.\nRelated: The Ultimate Christmas viewing guide\nHow to watch the Doctor Who Christmas Special\nOf course, the Doctor's exploits have always been beamed to us by the BBC, and this year is no different. BBC One is airing the new special at 5.45pm on Christmas Day, so if you've got a TV and haven't descended into a major food coma by then, you're sorted.\nBut, in the technological age, many will be looking to watch online. Luckily the BBC's iPlayer service will allow you to watch the whole thing as it airs on the channel itself, and catch-up will be available via the same portal. However, you will need a TV licence to use iPlayer, whether you're watching live or on-demand.\nIf you want to watch on mobile, you can download the iPlayer app using the following links, but the whole TV licence thing still applies:\nBBC iPlayer: iOS | Android | Windows\nThe BBC will repeat the Doctor's Christmas outing on December 30 at 2.30am, but the same streaming options and TV licence restrictions will still apply.\nAnd that's all you need to know! Enjoy the return of The Doctor.\nWATCH: Trusted Explains: All you need to know about TVs\nLet us know if you're looking forward to the special in the comments.}}
{{Share this article with Google Plus\nSoldiers based at Patrol Base Lash Durai, Afghanistan, get into the festive spirit (Picture: PA)\nBritish troops in Afghanistan have reportedly only been given £1 a head for Christmas celebrations by defence chiefs.\nSoldiers have reportedly slammed the contrast between the way US and UK soldiers are able to celebrate.\nMeet the real Mrs Christmas who transforms her home into a winter wonderland\nWhile the American soldeiers have been sent Christmas trees, turkeys, decorations and gifts – and have reportedly been organised a special screening of the new Styar Wars film.\nBut 500 British troops have been given a total of £500 for their Christmas celebrations – just £1 per person.\nOne British officer serving in Kabul told the Sunday Times: ‘The contrast between the American and British approach is staggering.\nChristmas previously celebrated at Camp Bastion, Afghanistan (Picture; REX/Shutterstock)\n‘As an army we don’t have as much money as the US, but even the Danish and Mongolians seem to be doing more.’\nOne soldier said morale was suffering as a result.\n‘They haven’t even sent us enough for a coffee,’ they said.\n‘The Americans send in more money to feed the stray cats on their compound.’\nBritish military personnel are pictured at Kandahar Airfield having departed Camp Bastion for the final time (Picture: REX/Shutterstock)\nIt comes as Theresa May paid tribute to the forces in her Christmas message.\n‘I want to say thank you to all those whose service to others means they will be spending time away from their loved ones this Christmas,’ the Prime Minister said.\n‘Men and women in our armed forces, whose humbling bravery and daily sacrifices help to ensure the security of our nation and our allies around the world.’\nAfghanistan remains Britain’s largest overseas deployment but soldiers feel forgotten as the war enters its 17th year.}}
{{As much of an Australophile as I am, the one thing as an American that I simply cannot wrap my head around is the idea of celebrating Christmas in the summer.\nI understand that December 25th simply arrives in summer in the southern hemisphere – I get that it probably wasn’t snowing where Mary gave birth to Jesus Christ – I know as a Christian that the Savior wasn’t actually born in December, because the Roman governor would never have arranged a census requiring seventy-mile journeys or longer in the worst travel season of the year. So, it really shouldn’t be a big deal.\nAnd yet… it bugs me, for some reason.\nI’ve celebrated decades of Christmases with snow in my yard, with icy roads and the fireplace roaring. Sorry: “ROAR”-ing.\nAnd since it’s currently winter where you’re most likely reading this, and next Sunday is the six-month mark from Christmas Day, I thought it a good time to check out what the folks in the AFL are wishing for Santa to bring them in his winter run Down Under.\nSydney Swans: Can we start the season in May from now on?\nHawthorn Hawks: Can we rewind the clock to 2012?\nBrisbane Lions: How about 2001?\nWestern Bulldogs: We really liked last year’s present, Santa – we’ll gladly take another one of those this September!\nRichmond Tigers: Santa, we’d like a moratorium on close games the rest of the year, please.\nEssendon Bombers: If you can manage all that, Santa, perhaps you could rewind back to 2011 and let us have a do-over from that point on. We’ve got a doctor to not hire…\nAdelaide Crows and Port Adelaide Power: If we can both keep playing as well as we (usually) have been, could you convince the AFL to hold a potential Grand Final between our two clubs at Adelaide Oval? (And maybe we could call it the Phil Walsh Memorial Grand Final?)\nGreater Western Sydney Giants: Santa, we’d like to file an objection to their request…\nCarlton Football Club: Santa, could you bring us a fight song that makes it sound like the Blues actually WON the game?\nWest Coast Eagles: A narrower field at the MCG and every other wide pitch in the league. Failing that, Santa, could you arrange to have Domain Stadium signage put up at every away game we travel to? That might help. (Adelaide’s okay as is.)\nDemon and Saint fans: Santa, I understand that our religious-type names are probably objectionable to you as a secular-styled mythical giver of gifts. But this trick of bringing us close to the promised land isn’t flying too well with us any more. Let us into finals this year, please?\nRoss Lyon: Hey, I’m running out of mirrors. Could you bring me a few more, and some more smoke to go with it, please, Santa? Thanks.\nNathan Buckley: Bring my team enough victories to give me another year to see this thing through to success, please.\nRodney Eade: Santa Claus, could you bring us two things? We’d like both enough wins and enough of a change in the culture here at the Suns for me to stay on board long enough to become the first finals-bound coach in Gold Coast history!\nJoel Selwood and Patrick Dangerfield: Send help! We can’t keep doing this on our own!\nNorth Melbourne executives: Can you give us enough wins to help justify our veteran purge in the public eye?\nAFLW executives: Could you bring us several more players as engaging to the public as Sarah Perkins and Erin Phillips? Or Sabrina Frederick-Traub and Tayla Harris? Or Daisy Pearce and Karen Paxman? Or… actually, never mind. We’ll need all those new young players in 2019 instead.\nA handful of Chinese residents and Australian transplants: That was really great, Santa – bring more footy to mainland China!\nOne billion-plus other Chinese residents: Nǐ shuō de shì shénme zúqiú? (“What is this footy thing you speak of?”)\nNick Riewoldt: Hey, Santa, the last batch of youth serum you brought didn’t cover my knees. Could you ask quality control to check the next doses more carefully, please?\nRory Sloane: Could you bring me some sleight-of-hand tricks I can share with taggers to distract them a little bit?\nDustin Martin and Josh Kelly: We like it where we are, but we’d also like to strike while the iron is hot, if you know what we mean, Santa. So, can you bring us contracts with seven digits on them from our current teams, please? (And something to distract the media while we’re waiting to sign…)\nGary Ablett Jr: I came to Gold Coast to bring a brand new franchise to the Promised Land, but I’m starting to get discouraged. Help us make it to the finals this year, so I’ll have motivation to stay here instead of going home to Geelong. (I’m having a hard time picturing the devout Christian Ablett writing a letter to Santa, so Gary, make this wish to Whomever you choose.)\nAnthony McDonald-Tipungwuti: Could you see fit to have fans and the media stop butchering my last name, please?\nJake and Kade Kolodjashnij: Anthony, you think you’ve got problems!\nMax Gawn, Nic Natainui, and Stephen Coniglio: Santa Claus, if you’ve got any magical healing powers – reindeer dust, elf powder, whatever – we’d like to get healthy and get our respective teams over the hump, please.\nAnthony Morabito: Good luck with that one, guys.\nGillon McLachlan: Mr. Claus, sir, I feel overwhelmed by all these cries from the public to fix the 22-game schedule. I’ve floated the 17-5 model, the 18-4 model, and everything else I can think of. Can you help me deal with this flood of complaints?\nPublic: Santa, we really don’t care as much as he seems to think.\nExecutives from Essendon, Geelong, Gold Coast, Hawthorn, North Melbourne, Richmond, St Kilda, and West Coast: Santa, we’d like to have one of those AFLW green-lights for 2019, please.\nPublic: On the other hand, we DO care about this one. A lot. Maybe even sixteen teams “a lot”.\nThe months of February and March: Um, Santa, how’ya gonna do that within what we can give you?\nThe state of Tasmania: Would it kill the Kangaroos and Hawks to give us eleven home games a year, split between the north and south ends of the state? Santa, we’ll settle for ten for now – five a piece – and we can at least feel like we have our own team here in Tassie!\nThe city of Canberra: Now that you mention it…\nAlice Springs and Darwin: Hey, Santa, if we’re on this topic anyway…\n(Santa Claus: You realize that there’s a snowball’s chance in the NT…)\nMMA and UFC and WWE: Santa, convince the AFL to outlaw the jumper punch and just convince these yahoos to leave the fighting to the professionals – us! If the fans want to see crud like that, let them come watch us. The footy pitch is a terrible place to watch the fights – it’s too far away from the fans, for one thing! And it takes away from all the actual excitement the AFL provides within the rules of the game.\nAFLPA: A season without concussions, horrific injuries, five-day turnarounds, MRP controversies, and rules that change interpretations every week!\nMark Evans: Santa, any chance you could find about 36 mind-reading devices, so that our umpires will be able to tell when rushed behinds and kicks out-of-bounds are deliberate or not?\nAFL umpires: We’ll settle for a small, flat, hard patch at the center of every pitch to make a clean center bounce on every time. Just let us keep the same interpretation of the other rules from week to week, and we’ll do fine with those new rules.\nPublic: You know, Santa Claus, when all is said and done, just keep giving us seasons where there are 13 or 14 teams with an actual chance at finals action and the ability to win at least one game once they’re there, and that’ll keep us happy. Almost every game will organically mean something (can’t help the occasional Carlton/Brisbane game, and if they’re both improving, we’ll be interested anyway). We’ll have reason to pay attention to each round from Friday (or Thursday) through Sunday (or Monday). And once Finals arrives, bye week or not (not, please), we’ll have a genuinely intriguing game at every level as it is. No need to expand finals. No need to generate false excitement with a round-robin tourney for thirteenth. Just give us good teams from top to as close to the bottom as feasible, and we’re going to enjoy it.\nNow, is that too much to ask, Santa Claus?}}
{{Just the day before, she was serving up hot meals to people at the Los Angeles Mission Christmas celebration.\nBut on Saturday, Blanca Blanco enjoyed some me-time on a beach in Malibu under the warm California sun.\nThe actress, 36, flaunted her sensational curves in a red and nude Christmas-inspired swimsuit.\nParadise: On Saturday, Blanca Blanco enjoyed some me-time on a beach in Malibu under the warm California sun\nBlanca's swimsuit had a red bow emblazoned on the front just big enough to hide the actress' physique.\nHer toned and tan legs also glistened in the sun as she was walking on the beach by the shore line.\nBlanca kept her dark locks in loose waves while wearing little make-up under red-lens round-framed sunglasses.\nWhile walking the 36-year-old didn't mind showing off her peach posterior.\nUnder wraps: The actress, 36, flaunted her sensational curves in a red and nude Christmas-inspired swimsuit\nJust peachy: Blanca's swimsuit had a red bow emblazoned on the front just big enough to hide the actress' physique\nLeggy: Her toned and tan legs also glistened in the sun as she was walking on the beach by the shore line\nIn recent weeks, actress Blanca has posed on the beach in various states of undress.\nGoing topless, she protected her modesty in ornamental ribbons and tinsel to cover her modesty earlier this month.\nShe also went braless in a fishnet top and red hotpants during a Los Angeles outing earlier in the month.\nThe gorgeous brunette is in the midst of filming the movie Artificial Loyalty, which will be released later this year.\nBlanca, who stars as Melanie in the film, will star alongside John Savage, Richard Tyson and Billy Wirth.\nGolden girl: Blanca kept her dark locks in loose waves while wearing little make-up under red-lens round-framed sunglasses}}
{{This article originally appeared on TIME.\nDonald Trump raised his fist to celebrate Christmas this year, through a photo posted on Twitter Sunday morning.\n“#MerryChristmas,” he Tweeted, followed by a Christmas tree emoji.\nThe president-elect, who has railed against the practice of saying “happy holidays” instead of “Merry Christmas,” spent Christmas Eve at midnight services in the Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea in Palm Beach, Florida.\nTrump, who ended his recent “Thank You” tour with a Christmas-themed rally in Alabama, will spend the holidays at Mar-a-Lago, the Associated Press reported. He has been holding meetings with advisers, senior staff members and business executives at the Florida estate.\nTrump on Saturday tweeted “Happy #Hanukkah,” with a photo of a menorah.}}
{{* C$ at C$1.0264 vs US$, or 97.43 U.S. cents * U.S. weekly jobless claims up slightly, durable goods rise in June * Bond yields mixed By Solarina Ho TORONTO, July 25 (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar strengthened on Thursday to its firmest level in five weeks against its U.S. counterpart, helped in part by U.S. data that lifted sentiment about the outlook for Canada's largest export market. A gauge of planned U.S. business spending on capital goods rose in June, buoying hopes of an acceleration in economic growth in the second half of 2013. The number of Americans filing new claims for jobless benefits rose slightly last week but remained within a range that suggests the U.S. labor market continues to improve at a moderate pace. A four-week average of new claims, which smoothes out volatility, fell by 1,250 from a week earlier. "The market's buying into the 'good U.S. recovery is good for Canada' story," said Don Mikolich, executive director, foreign exchange sales, CIBC world markets. "Retail sales still has a bit of an afterglow from Tuesday as people have maybe marked up their forecast a bit there." Higher auto sales helped drive Canadian retail sales 1.9 percent higher in May from April, the biggest monthly jump in more than three years and far greater than the 0.4 percent growth predicted by market operators. A number of economists speculate that the data could signal higher-than-expected economic growth data for the second quarter. Canada's economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the first quarter. The Canadian dollar, which was mixed against other major currencies, finished the North American session at C$1.0264 versus the greenback, or 97.43 U.S. cents. This was firmer than Wednesday's finish at C$1.0316, or 96.94 U.S. cents. At one point, it touched C$1.0255, its strongest level since June 19. The currency was trading at its weakest level against the New Zealand dollar in about seven weeks. Investors are also turning their focus to next week's data. U.S. economic growth data and payroll processor ADP's private-sector jobs report will be the early indicators for the health of the U.S. labor market. U.S. employment figures for July are due at the end of next week. "The big dollar generally is driving everything in our markets at the moment and that's driven by expectations of the Fed, and Fed policy's driven basically by the labor market," said Adam Cole, global head of FX strategy at RBC Capital Markets in London. The price of Canadian government debt was mixed. The two-year bond fell half a Canadian cent to yield 1.151 percent, while the benchmark 10-year bond rose 13 Canadian cents to yield 2.463 percent.}}
{{A $2,500 grant from the Valley Community Foundation helped volunteers with Adam’s House construct a front garden on June 14 that encircles the memorial walkway at the nonprofit grief education center located at 241 Coram Ave.\nAdam’s House Founder and Executive Director Allison Wysota said, “We are thrilled that our front garden surrounding our memorial walkway is now a beautiful, welcoming space that will offer peace and healing not only to grieving children and families that enter our program, but to all in the Shelton community that pass by our doors.”\nAs part of the Adam’s House “Healing Hearts” program, children can create a commemorative brick to place on the memorial walkway to honor and celebrate the life a loved one.\nThe Valley Community Foundation grant funded the plantings and construction of the gardens that encompass the memorial walkway.\n“Valley Community Foundation (VCF) President and CEO Sharon Closius works closely with our program officer and community grants committee to make smart investments in the changing needs and opportunities of the Valley,” said Alan Tyma, VCF Board Chair. “The Foundation is thrilled to be able to support the mission of the Adam’s House at the maximum level of our community grants, ranging from $250-$2,500. One focus of the Foundation is to strengthen the impact of small nonprofits, those with fewer than two full-time or fewer than four part-time staff, by supporting a variety of community engagement efforts. Based on their presentation, Adam’s House should be a valuable member of our community for a long time.”\nThe Olde Ripton Garden Club in Shelton led by Garden Designer Renee Marsh, owner of A Simpler Place, contributed the project’s landscape design. 12 volunteers from the Shelton office of Nasdaq made up the labor force that turned Marsh’s landscape design into reality. During a warm, sunny day, the Nasdaq volunteers cheerfully planted a new array of hydrangeas, lilies, catmint, roses, a dogwood tree and other plantings to create the memorial walkway landscaping and front garden.}}
{{Melbourne, June 21: A re-elected Turnbull Government will enhance existing visitor visas to enable sponsored parents to visit their family in Australia for a continuous period of up to five years.\nCurrently, parents of Australian citizens and permanent residents who have lodged a permanent parental visa application may be issued with a visitor visa of up to five years duration, on a case-by case basis.\nIn an attempt to woo new migrants, this Coalition announcement comes on the heels of Labor’s proposal of 3 years continuous stay.\nThe Coalition, if returned to Office will remove the requirement for these parents to have lodged a concurrent permanent parental visa application.\n“The Coalition recognises that many Australians, including our growing South Asian and Chinese communities, face particular pressures through the separation of children from parents and grandchildren from grandparents,” Minister for Immigration and Border Protection, Peter Dutton said.\n“We want to help families reunite and spend time together, while ensuring that we do so in a way that does not burden Australia’s health care system,” he said.\nEchoing similar safeguarding measures of Labor, Coalition’s plan will also warrant visitors applying for the enhanced parental visitor visa to demonstrate that they hold adequate private health insurance from an Australian provider.\nThey or their sponsoring family will also be required to pay a bond based on the existing Assurance of Support Scheme.\nThese measures build on the Coalition’s earlier visa reforms specifically targeted for the Indian and Chinese markets, “to enhance our national economic and social prosperity” including:\nThree-year multiple entry tourist visas for Indian, Chinese and other nationals.\nPremium processing in key markets, including India.\nA 10-year visitor visa and on-line Chinese language application for approved Chinese nationals.\nAccording to the Scanlon Foundation, confidence in Australia’s migration programme has grown under the Coalition, following decrease in boat arrivals which is perceived as restoration of border control measures.\nNidhi Mehta}}
{{A dementia care home in Chorley celebrated over the festive season by hosting a Christmas market, which was opened by Miss Chorley 2017.\nBecky Lizz, the reigning Miss Chorley opened the event, in Market Square, The Lodge, in Buckshaw Retirement Village.\nMembers of the public were encouraged to have a look around the dementia-friendly facilities in Market Square at The Lodge, which includes a pet shop, pub, cafe, hair and beauty salon, and a music relaxation lounge and a 20-seater cinema.\nChris Durnan, market square coordinator at The Lodge, said: “Holding the market open day was also a great opportunity for members of the public to support local businesses, but also to have a look around the Market Square facilities, which provide a huge benefit to our residents. The facilities we have mean that to a certain extent, residents can keep their independence and do things that they enjoy, such as visiting the pub, making a hair appointment or going to the cinema, and of course attending our market days.\n“Activities and events such as the market day are really important to our residents. They are always person-centred and designed to meet their needs, which encourages them to get involved in the activities, which promote the importance of their physical and mental wellbeing.\nBecky said: “It was good to see so many people looking around the market stalls and supporting local businesses, and looking at the range of facilities available to residents within The Lodge. I think it’s a brilliant concept, and great that members of the public were able to see the facilities which allow the residents to keep their independence, and remain involved in a community.”}}
{{The elite French MBA provider is teaching the basics of business to those aged between 15 and 17\nBusiness school students are notorious for pulling all-nighters to meet work deadlines. That ought not to be the case with a group arriving this month for a €5,200 course at Insead, the elite French purveyor of MBAs.\nFar from working until the small hours, these students will be expected to be tucked up in bed, with lights out, at 11pm (except on Fridays and Saturdays, when they get to stay up an extra hour).\nFor the second year, Insead is hosting 15-17 year olds at a two-week residential summer school, promising to give them “a unique and transformative experience” at its campus amid the forest of Fontainebleau, on the southern outskirts of Paris.\nA typical day on the Summer@Insead scheme, which is taught in English, will run from 8.30am to 5pm, with a mix of classes, company visits and guest speakers — all aimed at increasing the teenagers’ “business awareness”.\nIn strategy class, they will be asked to ponder what managers can do “to drive performance and growth in the face of fierce competition in an uncertain world”.\nIn decision-making, elements of applied psychology will be introduced to examine how to make better choices amid uncertainty. In negotiation, they will learn how to discern a counterpart’s underlying needs.\nVisits will include trips to hot Paris start-up BlaBlaCar (founded by an Insead MBA graduate) and an innovation centre run by consultant Accenture. In the late afternoon and evenings there will be sport, games and other more relaxing activities.\nPeter Zemsky, Insead deputy dean and director of the summer school, says the course is a powerful way for it to reconnect with alumni, rather than being a standalone moneymaker.\nRoots in the gulf Insead’s summer school for teens started life in 2015 as a joint project with Abu Dhabi, where the French institution has a campus. The first instalment featured 45 students; 25 of them coming from Abu Dhabi, with the aim of supporting efforts to diversify the economy and encourage more young people into the private sector, according to Peter Zemsky, Summer@Insead director. The emirate is not taking part this year.\nAlmost all the 70 teenagers signed up for the course are children of former Insead students, who feel that the school is “a little bit of the family fabric”, he says.\nThe alumni network has also been tapped to provide counsellors in their twenties to help mentor the students and direct extracurricular activities.\nAlumni received a 10 per cent discount on the fee but this goodwill gesture could pay off if they end up donating to the school or signing up for one of its executive education courses.\nSuch an approach could leave Insead vulnerable to criticism that it is creating a closed loop of entitlement.\nProf Zemsky acknowledges the risk and says this is likely to be addressed in future iterations of the course if it continues, through scholarships to “bring in less privileged kids”.\nHowever, he stresses that the geographic and cultural diversity of Insead’s MBA students is even greater at the level of their children, given the peripatetic lives many of their families have led in pursuit of their elite careers.\nBusiness Education Global MBA ranking 2016 Insead’s MBA becomes the first one-year programme to reach the number one spot\nInsead is by no means the only body selling courses to teens, their parents and schools, with the promise of helping these young people get ahead in business in their later lives.\nBut there are lots of sceptics who doubt the real-world value of an MBA — can an MBA-style taster be worth the money when the participants are so far from entering the world of work?\nProf Zemsky says the teaching has been adapted for the younger cohort, while tensions between business and society will also be discussed during the fortnight.\nGetting introduced to subjects such as decision-making ought to benefit the teens as they make key choices in young adulthood, he adds. “We are not trying to make them little business people.”}}
{{Catch him if you can. Stevie Van Zandt, Bruce Springsteen’s sideman, is back in the solo spotlight after 18 years. With the E Street Band awaiting word from The Boss on the next project, Van Zandt this month started a short U.S. and European tour, so far getting an enthusiastic response to taut songs from his 2017 album Soulfire, which mixes genres like never before and moves right away from the politics of his earlier work.\nVan Zandt, speaking in an interview, looks forward to more work with Springsteen, looks back to his solo first albums in the 1980s and notes that he has been busy for the last few decades: Springsteen, the E Street Band, his role as Silvio Dante on The Sopranos, other TV work, his Wicked Cool Record label and radio shows. Now the time is right to return musically as his own man.\nMark Beech: Congratulations on the album. It’s different from your previous work…\nStevie Van Zandt: My first five albums were all very political, that was my main concern. This time, it was not politics first and music second, it was focused on me the songwriter, me the singer, the guitar player, the arranger, the producer. It was nice to be sort of liberated from politics for the moment.\nMark Beech: It comes when Roger Waters, even Lana Del Rey are making political references.\nStevie Van Zandt: Yeah, it is quite ironic. I have already had my tussle with Roger Waters, which was done privately. I completely and entirely disagree with his entire BDS (Boycott Divestment and Sanctions) thing. But in public, I felt that 24-7 in America you cannot get away from the politics. Now, back in the 1980s, I thought it was really important to talk about Ronald Regan who was considered ‘God,’ and I felt that he wasn’t and I explained why - all the things going on behind the scenes that people didn’t know. Now you don’t have to explain Donald Trump, he just explains himself every single day. There is not much going on that people aren’t seeing, so it was a completely different atmosphere and the time was right to focus on the craft.\nMark Beech: You’ve got a lot of different genres on the new record – how hard was it to find musicians who could cover all this?\nStevie Van Zandt: I have always been a bit eclectic in terms of the hybrid of genres that I have absorbed and used in my work, but you are right, never more so than this album. There are four or five specific genres on this record including rootsy things I have never done, before such as doo-wop and blues and cinematic influences like Ennio Morricone and blackploitation stuff – and then we do a few more genres live.}}
{{DAYTON, Ohio (AP) - A museum dedicated to the funk music genre has opened its doors in Ohio.\nThe president of the Funk Music Hall of Fame and Exhibition Center in Dayton says the center received its final approvals from the city and is now taking reservations for private tours and events.\nThe Dayton Daily News reports David Webb says the grand opening will be held in January or February. A $5 donation will be requested per visitor.\nDayton was sometimes referred to as the Land of Funk in the 1970s and 1980s, thanks to groups including the Ohio Players, Steve Arrington's Hall of Fame, Zapp, Faze-O, Heatwave, Sun, Slave and Lakeside.\nCopyright 2017 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.}}
{{Rome, June 20 - Interior Minister Matteo Salvini said Wednesday that 800 people have died at sea while trying to get into Europe so far this year and he argued that the deaths "weigh on the conscience of the traffickers and the do-gooders".}}
{{Migrant influx pushes German population growth to highest since 1992\nBERLIN, Aug 26 (Reuters) - Germany's population registered its biggest increase in more than 20 years in 2015, data showed on Friday, as record numbers of migrants entered the country.\nMore than a million people fleeing war and poverty in the Middle East, Africa and beyond flocked to Europe's most populous nation last year, drawn by Germany's strong economy, relatively liberal asylum laws and generous system of benefits.\nNet migration reached a record high of 1,139,000, more than doubling from 2014, the Federal Statistics Office said.\nA domestic debate about the benefits and drawbacks of migration has been raised a notch by a recent spate of violent attacks on civilians, some of which were claimed by Islamist militants.\nFederal elections are due next year and some German politicians have argued the influx will help ease a shortage of skilled labour as the population ages and birth rates fall.\nOthers are worried such a large number of migrants, many of whom lack the language skills and training Germany needs, is placing a heavy burden on the social safety net.\nWith 188,000 more people having died in Germany in 2015 than were born, overall the population rose by 978,000 to 82.2 million, its strongest rise since 1992.\nThe Interior Ministry has said 1.1 million migrants arrived in Germany last year with the aim of seeking asylum, with just under 480,000 applying. Asylum seekers have faced delays in making their applications.\nThe statistics office said the figures it used to calculate net migration were based on numbers registering at registration offices. Asylum seekers are initially housed in reception centres and generally only register later.\nAll of Germany's 16 regions saw their populations increase. Asylum seekers are spread around the country based on each state's population and tax revenues.\nAt the end of 2015 there were 8.7 million foreign nationals living in Germany, an increase of 14.7 percent compared with the previous year, with foreigners making up 10.5 percent of the population.\nThe IAB German labour office research institute estimated on Friday that the number of people who come to Germany in search of protection would fall to around 300,000 to 400,000 this year.\nIt said that estimate was dependent on the continued existence of the European Union's migrant deal with Turkey, which aims to stem the flow of illegal migrants to Europe, and the Balkan route remaining closed.}}
{{FOX NEWS -- Georgia deputies raided a middle school teacher’s home and seized guns and $6 million in cocaine and heroin.\nThe teacher Karla Alvarez, 28, and two others are facing drug trafficking and gun charges following Thursday’s drug bust by local authorities in Hall County.\nFox 5 Atlanta reported Friday that Alvarez is a teacher at Chestatee Middle School Academy in Gainesville. She also coaches the girls soccer team. She teaches Spanish, according to the school's website.\n“I've worked drugs and gangs for a long time and it was one of the larger cocaine seizures I've ever seen,” Hall County Sheriff's Lt. Scott Ware said, according to the station.\nDeputies seized drugs, cash and guns in a raid at teacher's house in Georgia. (Fox 5 Atlanta)\nInvestigators executed a search warrant and found 61 kilos of cocaine, a kilo of heroin, guns and cash in the home, which Alvarez shared with Monica Pascual Brito and her brother.\nBrito, 24, was arrested along with Alvarez. Ricardo Pascual Brito, 28, was being sought.\n“They got information that there was probably a substantial amount of heroin and cocaine at the house,” Ware said, according to the Gainesville Times.\nThe paper reported that Alvarez has been a teacher at Chestatee since 2015.\nThe Hall County School District is conducting an investigation as a result of the arrest.\nCopyright 2017 Fox News. All rights reserved.}}
{{Nassau, Bahamas – Isaiah Taylor, leader of Grammy award-winning band Bahamen, called for more musicians to be willing to take advantage of the vast opportunities available on the global stage and stop settling, or being comfortable, in just playing at local gigs.\nHis comments came as he stepped from the shadows for the first time to address young people preparing for the third round of The Music Project (TMP) competition.\nIn The Bahamas today, many musicians are comfortable with just playing at home for whatever they can make and do not broaden their skills internationally.\nHe personally has witnessed occasions where there were opportunities for Bahamian bands to work in places like Japan and China; however, no band was willing to leave the comforts of their island home to explore these new frontiers.\nHe encouraged the up and coming professional musicians taking part in TMP to consider this and take advantage of the vast opportunities available to them in music today.\nTaylor loves to remain behind the scenes as the driving force of the success of Bahamen. He would usually send another member of the group to make public appearances involving speeches.\nHowever, he has witnessed the previous two years of success of TMP and thought it important to step up this time and impart some of his more than 40 years of experience as a professional musician to the next generation.\nTMP brings public and private school bands together for months of training leading up to a popular band competition with prizes that students sincerely look forward to.\nTaylor was well received by the group of kids from who attended the first set of training sessions for TMP as a part of the preparations for the competition which will be held in February.\nHe told the young band members that he absolutely loves his work, but it is not an easy calling. It is one which requires commitment at any hour of the day and all through the night, and will also require one to travel and forego home commitments for a time. He said Bahamen, which is signed to Sony Records, is successful because of the individual commitment and passion of each member to the group’s goals.\nHe called on the youngsters to take time management seriously and to stop relying on their phones to be successful in music, but use their memory to help keep their minds sharp as they grow in their profession.}}
{{CANADA will soon be needing thousands of workers, according to the Department of Foreign Affairs.\nForeign Affairs Assistant Secretary Maria Andrelita Austria reported to Labor Secretary Silvestre H. Bello 3rd that thousands of jobs will be left vacant soon in the provinces of Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba, and Saskatchewan.\nThe Philippine Consulate General in Vancouver, citing a report of the Asia Pacific Gateway Skills Table’s (APGST), said there is a looming labor shortage in transportation industry in western provinces of Canada because workers are either retiring, moving out of the province, or leaving industries involved with international trade.\nThe APGST is a non-profit, regional partnership between labor, business, and education/training institutions. It ensures the Asia Pacific Gateway has enough people with the right skills and training to meet its needs.\nAccording to the APGST, the transportation industry in the western provinces is seen to need over 36,000 workers.\nThe report said British Columbia is expected to have the heaviest reliance on foreign workers because it is presumed to lose 27 percent of its workforce.\nIAir pilots, flight engineers, and flying instructors will be in demand.\nYears back, the DOLE signed labor agreements with the said Canadian provinces for the deployment of Filipino workers.\nThese agreements provide for an ethical, orderly, and expeditious recruitment and deployment of Filipino workers to Canada, non-collection of placement fees, and for the provinces to encourage employers to support human resource development efforts for Filipino workers. WILLIAM B. DEPASUPIL\nWD/CC}}
{{A photograph of a wheelchair-bound, crying elderly Canadian couple separated into two different care homes after 62 years of marriage because no beds were available together has received international attention.}}
{{New York's Democratic Governor Andrew Cuomo (shown) announced on Tuesday that the state intends to file a multi-agency lawsuit against the Trump administration for violating the "constitutional rights" of illegal-immigrant families by separating them at the border.\nGovernor Cuomo is directing the Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, the Department of Health, and the Office of Children and Family Services to initiate legal action against the federal government's "Separation of Families" policy.\n"The Trump Administration's policy to tear apart families is a moral failing and a human tragedy," reads the statement from Cuomo. "We will not tolerate the Constitutional rights of children and their parents being violated by our federal government. New York will act and file suit to end this callous and deliberate attack on immigrant communities, and end this heartless policy once and for all."\nAccording to Cuomo's statement, more than 70 children are currently staying in federal shelters in New York and the number is expected to increase.\nThe Daily Wire observes that Cuomo did not express the same ire when President Obama was in office, despite the fact that his administration exercised immigration policies that were equally controversial. Also, apparently Cuomo is unaware that illegal immigration is a crime, and that his administration regularly separates children from their parents through the state's prison system and the Child Protective Services (CPS) system. CPS removes thousands of New York kids from their parents each year, many of whom are later returned to their parents because the charges against them were false in the first place.\nThe New York Times reported in 2015 that Homeland Security officials were detaining families together in order to deter them from coming to the United States. In February of that year, a federal court ruled that strategy to be unconstitutional.\nAnd still the Obama administration continued to detain women and children behind fences for months following that determination. The Times wrote in June 2015, "But many women and children remained stalled behind bleak walls and fences month after month with no end in sight. Mothers became severely depressed or anxious, and their distress echoed in their children, who became worried and sickly."\nFurthermore, the federal judge found that the Obama administration had been holding migrant children in "widespread deplorable conditions" in Border Patrol stations. Judge Gee claimed that the administration "wholly failed" to provide "safe and sanitary" conditions required for children.\nBrandon Darby of Breitbart recently tweeted photos taken in 2014 of the conditions in which migrant children were held under the Obama administration, noting, "The chainlink partitions in the holding facilities at border are the exact same ones we showed you during the Obama Admin. Why didn't you care then?"\nBut as noted by Daily Wire editor-in-chief Ben Shapiro, Obama's policies of holding women and children together in detention as a deterrent "drew no ubiquitous comparisons to Nazi Germany or Japanese internment from the mainstream media."\nAnd now that President Trump has adopted an alternative policy that does not keep children and their parents in detention facilities together, his administration faces the threat of lawsuit and accusations of racism.\nCritics of the Trump administration are claiming that the president created the Separation of Children policy, but the policy is the only option the administration has based on rules that were established long before his administration. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals found that accompanied children could not be held in custody under the terms of the Flores Agreement established in 1997, which ruled that unaccompanied minors could not be held in custody beyond 20 days. As such, the federal government has only two options: either release whole families that have crossed the border illegally, or separate children from their parents.\nCritics are also claiming that immigrants seeking asylum are being subjected to the same punishments, which is entirely untrue. Ben Shapiro writes:\nImmigrants who come to points of entry to seek asylum aren’t actually illegally in the country — they’re not arrested. They’re processed through ICE, and their children stay with them. If, however, illegal immigrants cross the border illegally, the Trump administration now treats them as criminals. If they choose deportation, they aren’t separated from their kids; if they choose to apply for asylum, they stay in the country longer than 20 days, and their kids have to be removed by operation of law.\nWhile no one enjoys watching children being separated from their parents, the Trump administration is merely enforcing the country's immigration laws. Claims that the president is separating families as a deterrent are deliberate misrepresentations. The deterrent is arrest and deportation. The separation is an uncomfortable side effect of a policy that was forced into place by the courts. And, of course, this could be avoided altogether if immigrants entered the country legally. But Trump's critics do not want to admit that.}}
{{A nonprofit art space called Looky Here at 28 Chapman St. in Greenfield will feature everything from tarot card readings to instrument building classes as well as a thrift shop for art supplies. Looky Here is slated to have its grand opening on June 24 at 9 a.m.\nHannah Brookman, president of Looky Here, told the Valley Advocate the nonprofit’s mission is firstly to serve as a community-oriented creative reuse store offering art supplies to the local area with the space also serving as a workshop, lecture room, live music space, and art gallery.\n“It’s kind of keeping these objects out of the trash and into the hands of artists who can use them,” Brookman, who is artist herself, said. “It’s a place where we can have a collection of all these materials and people will be able to come and find what they’re looking for; especially because art supply stores aren’t really available in the area.”\nBrookman said she and three other female artists became interested in the space as a nonprofit art spot. It was previously a consignment shop named Looky Here, a name they decided to keep.\n“There’s a pretty wide community of musicians and artists that are around the western Massachusetts/ southern Vermont area that we are all a part of,” she said. “Outside of us, we know there’s an even larger group and we knew that there was a demand for a space for these artists to get together.”\nShe said the art supply thrift shop and artist space opened its doors with a soft opening in November, hosting a few workshops and a Spanish Film Festival for the past month, but with the grand opening, Looky Here will begin having continual open hours and a ongoing calendar of events.\n“We plan on taking out the ceiling panels to expose the tin roof above and we’ll be revamping the shop” Brookman said. “The front will be a gallery and community space, the middle will be the resale store, and the back area we have a broken Risograph printer, which we are looking to either repair or replace because it is part of our dream to have affordable Risograph duplicating services.”\nSome of the classes that would be featured at Looky Here include a lecture series, life drawing, film screening, a tarot workshop, writing groups, rug weaving, sound exploration workshops, and instrument building workshops, she said.\nChris Goudreau can be reached at cgoudreau@valleyadvocate.com.\nRelated Posts}}
{{Buy Photo Catholic's brock Jancek (34) goes for a layup past UnionÕs Holden Hendrick (11) and Trent Cooper (32) during a Region 2-AA boys tournament game between Knoxville Catholic and Union County at Catholic High School in Knoxville, Tennessee on Saturday, February 25, 2017. (Photo: Calvin Mattheis, Knoxville News Sentinel)Buy Photo\nSpencer Chandler, Anderson County: Chandler scored 19 points and nine rebounds in the 54-47 loss to Loudon and 23 points and eight rebounds in the 5937 win against Lenoir City.\nBrock Jancek, Catholic: Jancek scored 18 points in the 81-62 win against Clinton and scored 21 points along with his 1,000th point in the 58-56 win against Van Buren.\nJack Sompayrac, Catholic: Sompayrac scored 26 points in the win against Clinton and 21 points in the 71-38 win against Heritage. He also had 15 points in the win against Van Buren.\nBuy Photo Catholic's Jackson Rowan gets the rebound over Christian Academy's Isaiah Sulack in the Region 2-AA Boys Basketball Championship on Thursday, March 2, 2017 at Austin-East High School. (Photo: SAUL YOUNG/NEWS SENTINEL)\nJackson Rowan, Catholic: Rowan scored 12 points in the win against Clinton.\nTre Hill, Clinton: Hill scored 14 points in the loss to Catholic.\nTop performers can be submitted by coaches to prepxtra@knoxnews.com. This roundup includes games Wednesday through Friday.}}
{{Christmas quiz: Do you know everything there is to know about the festive season?\nIt’s that time of year again - Christmas lights line the streets, Christmas music can be heard in all the shops and everyone is out looking for gifts for their loved ones.\nThere’s delicious food to be had, Christmas films to watch, gifts to share and time to spend with family and friends.\nChristmas fanatics have been getting excited for the big day, but for those who think they know everything about the festive season - here’s a quiz.\n‘The ultimate Christmas quiz’ is a test to find out how much you know about the UK’s most popular holiday.}}
{{Six British ex-soldiers will spend Christmas Day in a “hell hole” Indian jail after their hopes of coming home were dashed again.\nThe six hoped their appeal last month would allow them to be reunited with their loved ones for the first time in four years.\nBut the tortuous legal system in India has meant any decision is now not expected until the new year.\n16 Jan 2016 — Many of you will now be aware that on Monday 11th of January we received the news that not one single... Posted by Free the Seaman Guard OHIO6 #FREE SGO6 on Saturday, January 16, 2016\nAnd if they fail to quash their convictions, they face four more years behind bars after being jailed last January on weapons charges while working as security guards on ships to combat piracy in the Indian Ocean.\nJoanne Thomlinson, from Wigton, Cumbria, whose brother John Armstrong, 29, an ex-Paratroop Regiment soldier, is one of the six jailed, said it would “mean the absolute world” to get her brother home.\nMrs Thomlinson said: “It is incredible to think what impact this has had on so many lives. So many parents, children, brothers and sisters, wives – just completely lost while their loved one suffers in prison.”\nJohn Armstrong (Family handout/PA)\nIndian coastguards first boarded their vessel, the MV Seaman Guard Ohio, and arrested them for bringing weapons into India’s territorial waters in October 2013.\nThe charges were quashed when the men argued the weapons were lawfully held and their paperwork, issued by the UK Government, was in order.\nBut a lower court reinstated the prosecution. The latest appeal was heard in November but no decision has been released.\nIt means another grim Christmas behind bars at Puzhal Prison in Chennai.\nPaul Towers with his wife Ann (Family handout/PA)\nAlso jailed is Paul Towers, 53, from Bootle, Merseyside, who spent 12 years in the Parachute Regiment before working for 20 years as a prison officer.\nHis wife, Ann Towers, is a former Army nurse and now works in a prison and their son, Jordan, is also serving in the British Army infantry.\nMrs Towers, from York, said between them, they had given more than 70 years of public service and feel let down.\n“I’m really quite bitter about the fact that we are in this situation, three years after it started, and this is their fourth Christmas in that country,” she said.\nBilly Irving and his son William (Family handout/PA)\nYvonne MacHugh, from Glasgow, is the fiancee of Billy Irving, 37, another ex-Paratrooper from Campbeltown, Argyll. They have a son, William, aged two.\nMiss MacHugh, who visited Mr Irving in June, said: “I had William with me. It was only the second time he had seen him, the first time he was only three months old, so this time he was running about saying ‘Daddy!’. That’s what made him so positive about all this.”\nThe other three Britons jailed are Nick Dunn, 30, another ex-para, from, Ashington, Northumberland, Ray Tindall, 41, who served with the Yorkshire Regiment and Welsh Regiment, from Chester, and Nicholas Simpson, 45, who served in the Yorkshire Regiment, from Catterick.\nTheir US employer, AdvanFort, “walked away” from the situation, the families say. The firm did not comment.}}
{{LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) — Indiana prosecutors have charged a couple with abandoning their adopted daughter in 2013 and moving to…\nLAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) — Indiana prosecutors have charged a couple with abandoning their adopted daughter in 2013 and moving to Canada, renting an apartment in Lafayette for the then-11-year-old girl but otherwise leaving her to fend for herself.\nProsecutors in Tippecanoe County, where Lafayette is located, filed neglect charges Wednesday against 45-year-old Kristine Elizabeth Barnett and 43-year-old Michael Barnett. They had not been booked or arraigned as of Friday and online court records don’t list an attorney for them.\nThe Journal & Courier reports that the couple have an address in Indianapolis, but it wasn’t immediately clear if they live there or if they still live in Canada.\nAccording to court documents, the couple adopted the girl, who has dwarfism, in 2010 when she was 8 years old. She had come to the U.S. through an adoption program two years earlier from her native Ukraine.\nProsecutors say that before abandoning the girl, the couple legally changed her age to 22 and told her to tell anyone who asked that she was that old.\n___\nInformation from: Journal and Courier, http://www.jconline.com\nCopyright © 2019 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, written or redistributed.}}
{{Thousands of Christmas village pieces cover the booth belonging to Richard and Candy Jones at the Limestone County Flea Market, 30030 U.S. 72, Madison.\nThe 6,000-piece collection, amassed over the past 30 years, will be on display at the market Saturday and Sunday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.\nWhile free, the Joneses ask that visitors make a donation to “Forever Young Senior Veterans,” an organization focused on fulfilling the dreams of World War II, Korea and Vietnam veterans. Guests who stop by the market this weekend will get the chance to see Santa and Mrs. Claus. The duo will make an appearance Saturday, 10 a.m.-4 p.m., and Sunday, 1-4 p.m.\nSubscribe}}
{{By Gina Cherelus\n(Reuters) - An elderly California couple discovered by Nebraska sheriff's deputies with 60 pounds of marijuana in their truck during a cross-country trip said they had planned to give the weed to family as Christmas presents, police said.\nPatrick Jiron, 83, and his wife Barbara, 80, of Clearlake Oaks, California, were both cited on charges of possession of marijuana with intent to deliver after police smelled a strong odor of marijuana coming from their vehicle during a traffic stop on Tuesday, the York County Sheriff's Office said in a press release.\nA number of U.S. states have legalized marijuana, but Nebraska is not one of them.\nThe couple did not immediately respond on Saturday to a request for comment.\nPatrick Jiron admitted to having the drug inside the vehicle and consented to a search during the traffic stop. Police said they found the 60 pounds of pot, with an estimated street value of more than $300,000, and multiple containers of concentrated tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), a major active ingredient in marijuana.\n"Both occupants advised that they were traveling from California making stops in Boston, Massachusetts and Vermont to distribute the marijuana to family and friends as Christmas gifts," York County Sheriff's Office said in a statement.\nPatrick Jiron was booked into the York County Jail on Tuesday before being released on bail for an unknown amount and his wife was only given a citation, police said.\n(Reporting by Gina Cherelus in New York; Editing by Andrea Ricci)}}
{{HARRISBURG (AP) – Details of a $32.7 billion state budget package are emerging as top Republican lawmakers reveal details of a plan negotiated behind closed doors with Democrat Gov. Tom Wolf. The no-new-taxes spending plan could see floor votes in the state House and Senate by week’s end. The new fiscal year begins July 1. The package increases spending by 2% over the current year’s budget. More money would go to public schools, social services, pensions, universities, and early-childhood education programs, plus $60 million in an off-budget grant program for school safety. House officials say about $800 million in one-time cash is being counted on to cover Medicaid costs off-budget.\nRelated}}
{{LABOUR looks set to lose a FORTUNE after apparently failing to sell tickets to its upcoming music festival.\nGetty UNCERTAIN: Corbyn's team blames the party chairman for poor sales\n‘Labour Live’ - dubbed ‘Jezfest’ - is reportedly struggling to turn a profit after selling just 2,500 of the 15,000 seats - with just three weeks to go. Jeremy Corbyn’s team is said to blame party chairman Ian Lavery for not bagging any A-list acts for the line-up.\nLily's Allen's most SHOCKING Tweets Outspoken pop princess Lily Allen sparks continual Twitter controversies 1 / 9 Twitter Lily Allen sparked fury after tweeting about Rochdale grooming gang victims\nDespite praise from stars such as Lily Allen, Stormzy and Sleaford Mods, none of them are on the bill for the June 16 show. Insiders last night told the Times ticket sales were still “dire”, suggesting the party could be looking at losses of more than £1 million. They said: “We are fast approaching the moment when we will be giving them away.”\nSome have blamed the format, which mixes music with talks from left wing figures such as Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell and Owen Jones. Only a handful of musicians responded to a request this week to promote it on their social media accounts. The party yesterday announced a new act, Hookworms, to join The Magic Numbers, Rae Morris and Jermain Jackman on the bill.\nAdorable dogs at polling stations sweep the Internet once more Voters bring their adorable dogs to polling stations in the latest local election trend 1 / 10 WENN Dogs at the polling station in north London as local elections are underway for the 2018 elections}}
{{By Farhad Manjoo / NY Times News Service\nWhen Facebook bought WhatsApp for more than US$19 billion in 2014, Jan Koum, a founder of the messaging company, arranged to sign a part of the deal outside the suburban social services center where he had once waited in line to collect food stamps.\nKoum, like many in the tech industry, is an immigrant. He was a teenager when he and his mother moved to the San Francisco Bay Area in the early 1990s, in part to escape the anti-Semitic tide then sweeping his native Ukraine. As Koum later told Forbes, his mother worked as a babysitter and swept floors at a grocery store to survive in the new country; when she was found to have cancer, the family lived off her disability payments.\nTales of immigrant woe are not unusual in Silicon Valley. However, Koum’s story carries greater resonance because his app has quietly become a mainstay of immigrant life. More than 1 billion people regularly use WhatsApp, which lets users send text messages and make phone calls free over the Internet. The app is particularly popular in India, where it has more than 160 million users, as well as in Europe, South America and Africa.\nBecause it is free, has a relatively good record on privacy and security, and is popular in so many parts of the world, WhatsApp has cultivated an unusual audience: It has become the lingua franca among people who, whether by choice or by force, have left their homes for the unknown.\nThis is happening as the world is increasingly at war over migration; this year was, among other things, a prolonged and pitched battle over the rights and privileges of migrant people, whether Syrians in Europe, Europeans in Britain’s fight over Brexit, or the issue of Mexican and Muslim immigration that dominated the US presidential race.\nBeyond the headlines, what has often gone unnoticed in the politics of migration are the shifting dynamics of migrant life — particularly the surprising and subtle ways in which technology, especially smartphones and social networks, has altered the immigrant experience.\nImmigrants use lots of different apps, of course, from Facebook to Skype to WeChat, which is popular in China. However, for many, WhatsApp has been at the center of a newfound connectedness. Wherever there are people leaving their homes for uncharted shores, you are likely to find WhatsApp. For migrants, it has become the best way to stay connected along a route, or, once they have landed, to keep in touch with the people they left back home.\nSyrian refugees flooding into Europe have used WhatsApp to pass along tips, warnings and pleas for help to others along the journey. WhatsApp has turned up along the border between the US and Mexico, where president-elect Donald Trump would like to build his wall. In the past year, a tide of Venezuelans has landed in Miami. The first thing many of them reached for when they landed was WhatsApp.\nEven for people who have left their home countries voluntarily to pursue jobs and wealth in a new place, WhatsApp has thoroughly altered the contours of immigrant life. People who have been in the US for decades told me that WhatsApp has eased the feeling of isolation and longing that is inherent to being an immigrant.\n“I do have much more of a sense of their daily lives,” said Anne Reef, 55, a former English professor, who moved from South Africa to the US in 1988. She now lives in Memphis, Tennessee, and has taught at, among other places, the University of Memphis.}}
{{Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video\nThe Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video\nSchools throughout Runnymede welcomed back nervous pupils to pick up their along awaited GCSE results.\nSalesian School is celebrating another excellent year of results, with 88% of students earning five A*-C grades (including English and maths), and 37% of exams taken scored the highest A and A* grades.\nSome of the Chertsey school’s top scoring students were Martha Garcia Vizuete and Leah Hennessy, who both earned nine A* and two A grades, and Nadia Baptista, Julia Da Costa and Caroline McCormick and also earned nine A* grades and a single A grade.\nIt was an extra special day for Martha, the youngest in the year group, who was collecting her results on her 16th birthday. “It’s amazing, I can’t really believe it,” she said. “I was so nervous, my brother had to open my envelope for me. I was aiming to get all As, but I never expected to do so well.”\n"Progress and attainment"\nGCSE results at Fullbrook School in New Haw\nIt’s been a week of celebrations for the Garcia Vizuetes – last week, her brother Jose was the joint-highest performing A Level student. “I really like the teachers so I’m going to stay and study history, French, maths and chemistry,” she said.\nLeah Hennessy also picked up nine A* and two A grades.\nStudents at Salesian School in Chertsey who scored six A* grades or higher\nHeadteacher James Kibble said: “We’re so proud of our students: once again they’ve demonstrated outstanding progress and attainment. This is proof of their work ethic, the support of their parents and the love, effort and expertise of our fantastic team of teachers.”\nThe Magna Carta School in Staines announced another record-breaking year, with 70% of students achieving five or more A*-C grades - compared with 66% last year.\nVideo loading Click to play Tap to play The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video\nHeadteacher Tim Smith said he was ‘ecstatic with the results’.\n“The class of 2016 have done remarkably well,” he said. “As a headline, it is the best results in the school’s history - we’ve never received results at this level.”\nHe said it could not have been achieved without the hard work of students, commitment of staff, and support from parents, governors and the community.\nOverwhelmed\nAn ‘overwhelmed’ Priya Johal, 16, leaves with three A*s and five As, and will now go on to study biology, chemistry, and maths at Salesian School in Chertsey with hopes of one day becoming a doctor.\nPriya Johal, 16, from Magna Carta School who got three A*s and five As\n“I’m excited and so happy,” she said. “I’m going to go drink a lot of ‘Capri-Sun’ with the gals.”\nHungarian Regina Kazinczi overcame not knowing how to speak any English when she moved to Britain three years ago to achieve three Bs, including one in English literature, two Cs and a D.\n“I’m very excited - I didn’t understand any English and I’ve worked really hard to achieve this,” she said.\nA focus on academic subjects and extra curricular activities at Fullbrook School, led students to some ‘fantastic’ results, said principal Anne Turner.\n"Excellent achievements"\nStudents at the New Haw school achieved 68% five A* to C grades including English and maths, with 21% of all grades A* or A.\nMrs Turner, said: “I am delighted with all our students’ success, particularly in a period of so much change in education.\n“The whole Fullbrook community have worked hard this year to ensure all our students achieve and exceed their potential and our warmest congratulations go to all our students and their families on their excellent achievements.”\nMelissa McCrow and Nabila Bulbul at Fullbrook School\nShe said they were particularly pleased that results in the core subjects, English, maths and science have gone up this year, with 84% of students taking three separate sciences achieving A* to C. Students also did well in technology subjects with more than 90% of students who studied technology subjects achieving a grade C or above.\nEllie Garland, Robert Sung and Amy Osborne were all celebrating some top results, but said they were very nervous ahead of opening the envelope. Amy said: “I have a heart rate monitor on my phone and we were watching it get higher as we went into the school.”\nWith hopes of becoming a GP, Toria Bahrami from West Byfleet was also pleased with her results that mean she will be off to Woking College. “It was hard work but it’s paid off,” she said.\nMelissa McCrow, from Woking, who got five A*s , six As and a B, added: “I was so nervous waiting for my results, I’m very happy now.”\nAbove national average\nThere were some more record breaking GCSE results at Jubilee High School in Addlestone with 76% of students achieving five GCSEs at A* to C.\nBrandon Taylor, Ada Nowak, Jade McPhee-Dunham at Jubilee High's GCSE Results Day\nSteve Price, headteacher, said: “I am delighted to celebrate such amazing results with the students, parents and staff and I’m very happy to say that our students have recorded an outstanding Progress 8 measure (+0.6) which is significantly above the national average.\n“Coming on the back of the government’s stringent new method of measuring examination success which now focuses on how well students perform across 8 subjects, including English and mathematics, the results are impressive.”\nBest ever\nStaff and pupils at Sir William Perkins’s School in Chertsey are celebrating another great set of GCSE results this year, with well over half of all grades at A*.\nA total of 13% of students got ten or more A* grades, 40 students got at least eight A* grades, and 54% of all grades were at A* – a best ever statistic.\nStudents at Sir William Perkins's School\nChris Muller, headteacher said: “Although we knew that this year’s results were bound to be excellent, we are still astounded by the achievements of the girls, and of course the staff who have made it possible.\n"The statistics this year are mind-boggling, and with results like these, the girls are on a very sound footing to carry on with their sixth form studies – we will watch for their A level results in two years’ time with a great sense of optimism.”}}
{{Keith Duffy's autistic daughter Mia looks all grown up as she graduates from school The Boyzone singer has a son and daughter with wife Lisa Duffy\nKeith Duffy and his wife Lisa were very proud parents this week after their teenage daughter Mia completed her final exams. Now with school out, Keith and Lisa were quick to praise the 18-year-old for all her achievements, and took to social media to pay a touching tribute, accompanied by a collage of four photos, with the most recent one showing Mia looking all grown up during an evening out. Lisa wrote a touching message to Mia, which was then reposted by dad Keith, which read: "Well done on finishing leaving cert exams today, you've come so far, a determined young woman ready for the next part of your journey and we are delighted to be by your side. Love you so much."\nLoading the player...\nFans were just as pleased for Mia – who was diagnosed with Autism at just 18-months-old. One wrote: "Congratulations Mia this is all down to Keith & Lisa you have helped so many understand and learn about Autism keep it up and there’s no stopping this beautiful young lady," while another said: "Well done, she has turned into a beautiful young lady." A third added: "Congrats Mia…how proud you must be of yourself … good luck on the next journey."\nMia was celebrated by her parents after she completed her exams\nMORE: Boyzone confirm they have reunited for 25th anniversary\nLast year, Keith opened up about Mia's autism in a moving interview. Appearing on TV documentary called Let Me In, which focused on autistic children around the world, the singer spoke about the difficulties the disability can bring, but also the importance of embracing your child. He said: "One of the most important steps for a parent of a child with autism is to stop mourning the child that they thought they had and start embracing the child that they have." He continued: "Every day you have a realisation that you’re going to have a child with a lifelong disability is absolutely horrifying. It’s so frustrating, horrifying, upsetting. But you have to try and find the positive."\nKeith Duffy and Lisa's daughter was diagnosed with Autism at 18 months\nMORE: Keith Duffy and Melanie Sykes speak out on World Autism Day\nThe former Coronation Street actor has dedicated a great deal of time to raising money and awareness of autism, and he told Mirror in 2014 that the first time he noticed Mia behaved differently to other children during a trip to Disneyland when she was one. But it was only when he was invited to a benefit for the education of children with autism that he recognised the same symptoms in his daughter. Keith and Lisa are also parents to son Jay, 22, and have been married since 1998. The couple went out to Las Vegas two days after Keith proposed, with his bandmate Ronan Keating acting as best man.}}
{{The video will start in 8 Cancel\nGet daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nThe Queen's Message is broadcast to the 52 member states in the Commonwealth of Nations on December 25 each year.\nIt was originally called the King's Christmas Message when it first began in 1932 and was broadcast on the radio - it was delivered King George V.\nQueen Elizabeth II has been doing it since 1952. The first ever speech to be televised was in 1957.\nThe Message is considered a festive royal tradition.}}
{{ADVERTISEMENT\nThe president and CEO of Air Canada has come out in defense of airlines’ practice of overbooking flights, saying it helps to keep airfares lower.\n“Data shows there’s a certain number of no-shows that come up, so this practice has permitted pricing over the airline industry generally that would stay lower,” Calin Rovinescu told the Globe and Mail in an interview.\nHe stressed that the practice affects only a small percentage of seats on Air Canada flights.\nAir Canada President and CEO Calin Rovinescu attends the company's annual general meeting in Montreal, Friday, May 5.\nRovinescu’s comments come in the wake of controversy over an incident in which a United Airlines passenger sustained serious injuries after being dragged off an airplane due to an overbooking.\nPublic anger at the incident prompted some U.S. airlines, including United, to increase the compensation offered to passengers who are bumped off aircraft. Southwest Airlines announced it would no longer overbook planes at all.\nTransport Minister Marc Garneau introduced a new passengers' bill of rights in May, which he says will prevent airlines from bumping passengers from overbooked flights, if they don't want to be bumped. Details of the new regulations will be determined by the Canadian Transport Agency, which plans to hold public consultations this year. The final regulations are expected to be in place in 2018.\nConflicting surveys\nRovinescu was giving interviews to media on Tuesday, following Air Canada's announcement it had won the Best Airline in North America award from SkyTrax. The airline highlighted it was the sixth time in eight years the airline had won the award, which is handed out at the Paris Air Show.\nGlobally, the Montreal-based airline is ranked 29th, behind mostly Asian and Middle Eastern airlines, which are perennial leaders. Porter Airlines was 55th, WestJet 58th, Air Transat 70th and Air Canada Rouge 99th.\n“This award is a significant milestone in the transformation of Air Canada into one of the world’s leading carriers and is all the more meaningful given the increased competition in our industry,” Rovinescu said in a statement emailed to media.\nHowever, a recent survey from Angus Reid suggested flyers may not be all that satisfied with Canada’s largest airline. Air Canada scored considerably worse than its principal rival, WestJet, in that customer satisfaction poll.\nFully 17 per cent of respondents said they had had a “poor” or “terrible” experience with Air Canada, compared to four per cent of WestJet passengers. Air Canada’s score was lower than that of United Airlines, which scored lowest among U.S. airlines in the survey.\n— With a file from The Canadian Press}}
{{The education ministry will use the hometown donation system to help high school and university students study abroad.\nAiming to support regional governments with programs designed to help students study abroad, the ministry will open a dedicated website in September in cooperation with Trustbank Inc., which runs a portal site related to the system, known as furusato nozei, sources said.\nThe furusato nozei system allows taxpayers to make donations to municipalities of their choice. In return, donors qualify for tax deductions where they live.\nThe ministry is mainly interested in high school students outside Tokyo and other big cities. The central government has launched a campaign to promote study abroad in collaboration with the private sector to boost participation by university student to 120,000 and by high school students to 60,000 by 2020.\nIn the furusato nozei campaign, one such program making use of private-sector donations has attracted ¥11.7 billion from about 210 companies since its launch in 2014, allowing some 4,400 students to study overseas. But most of the recipients been students in big cities.\nSome regional governments have their own assistance programs, but the number of students granted support is lower. The planned website will provide information on study abroad support programs run by regional governments so they can gather donations more easily.\nThe local-level programs that will receive the ministry’s support cover a wide range of activities, including internships at overseas units of local companies and exchanges with sister cities.\nGifts to donors often provided under furusato nozei systems are expected to include letters from students who received support and invitations to meetings to report their achievements.\n“We hope to see cases in which students who have realized their hopes of studying abroad thanks to relations with communities find jobs and play active roles there,” a ministry official said.}}
{{Blac Chyna Gets Piece of Ass for XMAS!!!\nBlac Chyna Gets Piece of Ass for Christmas\nBlac Chyna's got the Christmas spirit ... because she's all about the pa-rump-a-rump Rump.\nChyna was at Karrueche Tran's Christmas party Saturday night at Paloma nightclub in WeHo when a random chick backed into her and Chyna did not view it as an uninvited touching. To the contrary, Rob Kardashian's baby mama was all hands on.\nChyna hasn 't given up on reality TV, even though she sued the Kardashians because she believes they torpedoed her show with Rob. She says she has a solo show in the works, but it doesn't appear it's been sold.}}
{{Canada restores its traditional UN peacekeeping role\nTORONTO (AP) — The Canadian government is restoring the country's traditional U.N. peacekeeping role by providing up to 600 soldiers for missions around the world.\nDefense Minister Harjit Sajjan said Friday that Canada is committed to re-engaging in a many multilateral peace operations.\nPrime Minister Justin Trudeau has promised to return Canada to peacekeeping after more than a decade of dwindling participation. Canada had participated in more direct combat operations such as the war in Afghanistan.\nThe additional soldiers represent an increase over the 19 Canadian troops deployed on peacekeeping missions at the end of July, bringing the total more in line with the number of Canadian peacekeepers deployed in the 1990s and early 2000s.}}
{{3:49 Put some "music in your mouth" at Martini's in North Myrtle Beach with Crissy | Hot Pour Pause\n2:46 Kate Reburn of Dick Divitz Tap Room in Myrtle Beach loves Gatlinburg, Coneheads, and tall men with nice teeth | Hot Pour\n0:50 Myrtle Beach traffic loop - It's a circle!\n2:38 Tammy Hamm of Jimmagan's Pub in Myrtle Beach went from under the cow to behind the bar | Hot Pour\n0:18 Time lapse video - Bikefest over 24 Hours\n1:58 Have a Blue Parrot with Angela Watson of the Parrot Bar in Myrtle Beach | Hot Pour\n2:59 Hot Pour | Lauren Clark brings Chic-Fil-A to the Bar at Ian's Waterway Bar & Grill}}
{{A school board in Sherbrooke, Que., has halted a series of anti-homophobia workshops after parents complained about the materials being presented to elementary school students.\nThe non-profit group Prima Danse gave two workshops, out of the four planned, before the Sherbrooke regional school board (CSRS) decided to stop holding them.\nDuring the second workshop, Prima Danse animators showed sixth graders a photo of former Montreal Alouette safety Étienne Boulay and former Montreal Impact player David Testo in each other's arms. The photo was part of the exhibition Imaginary Couples, by photographer Olivier Ciappa.\nThe father of a student who attended the workshop complained to the school, prompting the school board to terminate its agreement with Prima Danse.\n"The father, that night, called other parents, called the school board, and went in-person in the morning to speak with the teacher in question and tell them in-person everything that was on his mind," said Katrina Journeau, director of Prima Danse, which holds dance-oriented workshops on social issues.\nQuebec ministers defend course\nJourneau said the father told her that "Sherbrooke isn't necessarily like Montreal" and that "students in the sixth grade shouldn't necessarily need to hear about homosexuality."\nHe also said his child felt embarrassed after being shown the photos, she added.\nThe anti-homophobia workshops have been given about 50 times since 2013 and this is the first time there has been a complaint, according to Journeau.\nTwo Quebec cabinet ministers have defended Prima Danse and are urging the school board to reconsider its decision, saying young people need to learn about different sexual orientations early.\n"These questions have to be discussed with young people," said Quebec Education Minister Sébastien Proulx. (Jacques Boissinot/Canadian Press)\n"These questions have to be discussed with young people. It all depends on the moment, the way it's done," Education Minister Sébastien Proulx said.\nFamilies Minister Luc Fortin said children see people kissing in the street, so they have to get used to it.\n"It's part of reality and I think it's quite legitimate for those kids to be aware of issues around homophobia," Fortin added.\nMeeting scheduled for new year\nThe school board has promised to meet with representatives from Prima Danse in the new year, and held out the possibility of resuming the workshops if changes were made to their content.\n"We didn't necessarily pull the final plug," said Christian Provencher, the school board's director.\n"We put all this on ice because we wanted to look at things. We didn't pull out of the project for the fun of it. We pulled out because there were things that bothered us."\nThe controversy comes as Quebec makes sexual education mandatory in schools beginning in first grade, and continuing until the end of high school. Schools are expected to teach these new courses as of September 2018.\nVanessa Forgues, a sexologist, disagreed with the sentiment that elementary school is too young to talk to children about homosexuality.\nShe recommended opening a discussion about sexual diversity when kids are as young as four years old.\n"By grade six for example, what would be relevant to address would be the awakening in love, the sexual awakening, 'Can I fall in love with a girl, with a boy?'" she said.}}
{{PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) – President Donald Trump is sending Christmas greetings to U.S. troops stationed around the world.\nFrom the Florida estate where Trump is spending the holidays, he spoke by video hook-up on Christmas Eve to members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines and Coast Guard, stationed in Qatar, Kuwait and Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.\nTrump told the troops that Americans are thankful for them and their families. He says they’re “the greatest people on earth.”\nHe offered renewed praise to the Coast Guard for saving thousands of lives during a series of deadly U.S. hurricanes.\nTrump told the troops that “every American heart” is thankful for them and is asking God to watch over them and their families.}}
{{Christmas time is here, which means ’tis the season to check our phones for the latest news and rumors in between opening gifts with relatives instead of during breaks at work.\nSeriously though, put those phones away (well, once you’re done reading this) because ’tis the season to spend time with family, spread holiday cheer and to reminisce about Christmases past. And then, when you get bored, to reminisce about baseball’s best Christmas names, past and present\nAnd trust us, you will get this bored.\nThere are more Christmas names than you probably think in baseball’s past, and several others that just need a slight tweak to find their Christmas spirit. We certainly have our favorites. But we’ll let you decide who has the best as we present this list of 10 great Christmas names.\nSteve Christmas\nView photos Steve Christmas. More\nIf you blinked you probably missed the career of baseball’s only man named Christmas. The former catcher had a cup of coffee (or a glass of milk and cookies) in the three different seasons (1983, 1984 and 1986) for three different teams (Reds, White Sox and Cubs), amassing a total of 39 plate appearances. Christmas produced six hits, including a single on Sept. 19, 1984. More importantly, he made sure Christmas would always have a place in baseball’s history books.\nAl Clauss\nIf there’s a baseball player best suited to play Santa Claus, it’s probably the guy who shares his last name. Albert Stanley Clauss was a left-handed pitcher who appeared in five games for the Detroit Tigers in 1913. He may have lasted longer if he wasn’t so giving. Over 13 1/3 career innings, he allowed 11 hits and 12 walks while striking out only one batter.\nJamey Carroll\nView photos Jamey Carroll More\nChristmas carolers are another staple of the holiday season. Aiming to spread holiday cheer, carolers are always on the move looking to provide a moment or two of happiness before moving on to the next house. The same can be said for baseball utility men, of which Jamey Carroll was among the best for nearly 12 years. Carroll played for six different teams over that span while spending time at every position but catcher and first base. That’s something to sing about.\nPedro Feliz\nView photos Pedro Feliz More\nSpeaking of singing, it’s not really Christmas until you sing-along to Feliz Navidad. You’re also lying to yourself if you didn’t get that stuck in your head when you saw or heard Pedro Feliz’s name for the first time in awhile. It’s a Christmas classic.\nJ.T. Snow\nView photos J.T. Snow More\nRead More}}
{{National Bank of Canada (TSE:NA) Director Richard Fortin bought 4,000 shares of the stock in a transaction dated Wednesday, September 27th. The stock was purchased at an average cost of C$59.40 per share, for a total transaction of C$237,600.00.\nRichard Fortin also recently made the following trade(s):\nGet National Bank of Canada alerts:\nOn Monday, September 25th, Richard Fortin bought 1,900 shares of National Bank of Canada stock. The stock was purchased at an average cost of C$58.02 per share, for a total transaction of C$110,238.00.\nOn Tuesday, September 26th, Richard Fortin bought 4,000 shares of National Bank of Canada stock. The stock was purchased at an average cost of C$58.79 per share, for a total transaction of C$235,160.00.\nOn Friday, September 22nd, Richard Fortin bought 2,000 shares of National Bank of Canada stock. The stock was purchased at an average cost of C$57.76 per share, for a total transaction of C$115,520.00.\nOn Thursday, September 21st, Richard Fortin bought 5,000 shares of National Bank of Canada stock. The stock was purchased at an average cost of C$57.90 per share, for a total transaction of C$289,500.00.\nNational Bank of Canada (TSE:NA) opened at 60.05 on Friday. The firm’s 50-day moving average is $56.40 and its 200-day moving average is $55.27. The firm has a market cap of $20.49 billion and a PE ratio of 12.58. National Bank of Canada has a 12 month low of $45.11 and a 12 month high of $60.50.\nThe company also recently disclosed a quarterly dividend, which will be paid on Wednesday, November 1st. Shareholders of record on Monday, September 25th will be paid a dividend of $0.58 per share. This represents a $2.32 dividend on an annualized basis and a yield of 3.86%. The ex-dividend date of this dividend is Friday, September 22nd.\nTRADEMARK VIOLATION WARNING: This news story was posted by Chaffey Breeze and is the sole property of of Chaffey Breeze. If you are viewing this news story on another site, it was copied illegally and republished in violation of US and international trademark & copyright law. The original version of this news story can be viewed at https://www.chaffeybreeze.com/2017/09/30/richard-fortin-acquires-4000-shares-of-national-bank-of-canada-na-stock.html.\nSeveral brokerages recently commented on NA. Canaccord Genuity raised their price objective on shares of National Bank of Canada from C$60.00 to C$62.00 in a research note on Thursday, August 31st. TD Securities raised their price objective on shares of National Bank of Canada from C$60.00 to C$61.00 and gave the company a “hold” rating in a research note on Thursday, August 31st. BMO Capital Markets raised their price objective on shares of National Bank of Canada from C$60.00 to C$61.00 and gave the company a “market perform” rating in a research note on Thursday, August 31st. Royal Bank Of Canada raised their price objective on shares of National Bank of Canada from C$62.00 to C$65.00 and gave the company an “outperform” rating in a research note on Thursday, August 31st. Finally, Scotiabank raised their price objective on shares of National Bank of Canada from C$61.00 to C$65.00 and gave the company an “outperform” rating in a research note on Thursday, August 31st. One investment analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, three have assigned a hold rating and three have given a buy rating to the company’s stock. The company has an average rating of “Hold” and a consensus target price of C$60.75.\nNational Bank of Canada Company Profile\nReceive News & Ratings for National Bank of Canada Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for National Bank of Canada and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.}}
{{July 3 (Reuters) - Canadian auto sales in June rose 1.3 percent to 171,608 vehicles, industry consultant Desrosiers said on Wednesday.\nFord Motor Co saw its sales fall 6 percent, but it remained the top-selling automaker in Canada in June with sales of 28,703 vehicles.\nChrysler Group, majority-owned by Fiat SpA, was second, with sales of 26,054 vehicles, 11 percent higher than a year ago. It was the 43rd consecutive month that Chrysler reported a year-over-year sales gain.\nGeneral Motors Co was third. Its sales rose 8 percent to 24,707 vehicles.\nOverall, the auto industry sold more new vehicles last month than in any previous June, Desrosiers said.\nIn the United States, U.S.-based automakers on Tuesday reported an increase in sales of pickup trucks that outstripped the industry’s overall pace.\nThe same occurred in Canada last month, where U.S.-based automakers reported double-digit June sales gains for pickup trucks, while sales of sedans and other passenger cars fell 5 percent.\nJune Canadian sales of light trucks, which includes SUVs, rose 7 percent.\nToyota Motor Corp Canadian sales in June fell 4 percent, to 17,052 vehicles.\nAlso topping 10,000 in Canadian June sales were Hyundai Motor Co at 14,605, up 6 percent, and Honda Motor Co at 13,416, up 11 percent.\nFord’s F-Series pickup truck sales of 11,051 were up 15 percent from a year ago.\nChrysler’s Ram pickup truck sales rose 16 percent to 7,176.\nGeneral Motors pickup truck sales rose 10 percent to 9,234.}}
{{LONDON, ENGLAND – Due to a high demand for helpful ghosts on Christmas Eve, elderly businessman and heartless miser Agamemnon Scoggs was forced to endure a cautionary visit from three Frankensteins late last night.\n“I was tucking into bed after a day of penny-pinching and cruelty,” explained Scoggs, “when my dead partner appeared to tell me I’d be visited by three ghosts that night. Well, I guess there ended up being no ghosts available because I waited for a pretty long time, then these three Frankensteins showed up.”\n“They came in the room one at a time but you could always hear the other two in the hall, clomping around and knocking my stuff over. It all seemed very last-minute.”\nThe cold-hearted crank’s journey through time began when the Frankenstein of Christmas Past whisked him away to a festive, joyous party from his youth, only to become enraged by the venue’s fireplace.\n“The fire really wigged that Frankenstien out, he was yelling and flailing around,” recounted Scoggs.\n“He trashed that place from my past pretty badly and then we had to leave. If there was a lesson to that part of the night beyond ‘FIRE BAD’, we did not get to it.”\nHe was then taken to the modest home of his employee Bill Crockett by the Frankenstein of Christmas Present. “Oh, and I’d like to add that we weren’t flying from place to place either,” Scoggs noted. “I was being carried around by Frankensteins.”\nThe pair watched through the window as Crockett’s family made the most of Christmas with what little they had. “They might have gone on longer if we’d been invisible – like, say, ghosts. But since Frankensteins don’t have that ability, or even basic human stealth levels, we crashed through the window and in the ensuing freakout he threw Bill’s kid, Small Sam, in the river.”\nThe Frankenstein of Christmas Yet to Come concluded the night by taking Scoggs to a cemetery to look upon his own lonely grave. On arrival, however, the Frankenstein ran into two of his friends – a wolfman and a Dracula – and was so distracted by the ensuing monster party that Scoggs was unable to get any straight answers as to the grave’s meaning and had to take a cab home by himself.\n“I understand what the Frankensteins were trying to do, and I guess I respect the effort,” said Scoggs, working on Christmas Day and clearly having failed to learn a lesson. “But I don’t know… there’s just that something that you only get with ghosts.”\nScoggs’ last remaining hope for holiday-centric redemption, the St Valentine’s Day Mummy, could not be reached for comment.}}
{{Continue reading Corrine Bailey Talks About Black Music\nRuss Parr Meet & Greet at Brothers\nRuss Parr made his return to Cincinnati to party with 100.3 listeners at Brothers!}}
{{There was no need for Sherlock Holmes, or Kurt Wallender, to get to the bottom of an arson case in the Swedish town of Gävle.\nOne night, just after Christmas, the town's famous goat - a large straw effigy which has been erected in a square every year since 1966 - went up in flames.\nThe Local reported that a 26-year-old man was chased by a security guard and arrested.\nThe man, who cannot be identified under Swedish law (left), initially denied any involvement in the arson despite an awful lot of circumstantial evidence\nHis eyebrows and fringe were singed, his face was covered in soot and part of his jacket had melted.\nBut he maintained he was innocence.\nHe was searched by police, who found a lighter in his hand, a balaclava in his pocket and a roll of newspaper. He smelt strongly of petrol.\nEvery year the Christmas goat is built of straw in the city of Gävle and a game of cat-and-mouse is played between the authorities and arsonists\nLast year's goat was 13 metres high and seven metres long, weighed 3.6 tonnes, and was built entirely of straw. A passer-by noticed it catch light (right)\nThe goat effigy in the eastern Swedish city of Gävle is a tradition dating back to 1966. It has been set on fire 34 times\nStill he maintained his innocence.\nFinally the man, who was very drunk, confessed to setting fire to the goat.\nHe said: 'Maybe I had a few too many drinks. I had the idea, and it was now or never.'\nHe faced up to four years in jail and a bill for 100,000 kronor (£9,000) in damages.\nFireworks go off in the centre of Gävle in 2014 as the Christmas goat watches on. It has been destroyed by fire 34 times\nThe Christmas goat in Gävle has become such a fixture in Swedish life that it now has its own Twitter account.\nBut this is not the first time it has caught fire. Far from it. It was the 34th time the goat had burned since Gävle launched the tradition in 1966.}}
{{Great games for taking a wee break from your holiday festivities!\nThe holidays are a perfect time for relaxing and spending some quality time with family and friends — especially the times when our phones are put away.\nBut the reality is that people are always going to have their phones on them, and maybe sometimes it's alright to use them for a little escape from the hustle and bustle of the season. On the other hand, there are some games that are great for all ages and can help the whole family kill a bit of time while the turkey finishes cooking in the oven. And you also don't want anything too involved — we're looking for more casual pick up and play games here.\nWithout further ado, here are some of our favorite games for killing time at Christmas.\nHidden Folks\nHidden Folks is a fantastic new game for Android that takes everything that you remember and love about Where's Waldo — the hand-drawn art style, the relaxing and focused fun — and pushes it into the digital age. Here, instead of scanning a page, you're left to tap around to uncover secrets hidden throughout the scene. You're given a list of people or items to find in each scene, and it's up to you to explore every inch of the canvas as you discover all sorts of fun secrets.\nThere's a brilliantly layers sound design comprised of human-made sound effects that are charming and remind me of a parent making sounds while reading a book to a kid. This feels like a perfect game for parents with younger kids who are starting to get into mobile games — especially with the holiday season upon us — but it's also a great break for adults, too.\nDownload: Hidden Folks ($2.99)\nReigns: Her Majesty\nReigns: Her Majesty is the sequel to the award-winning game that combined the easy controls of swiping cards left or right with a compelling and engaging story. You play as the monarch of the land and make decisions that affect four aspects of the kingdom: the church, the people, the army, and the royal wealth. Your goal is to keep all four in balance — if any meter fills to the max or is entirely depleted your reign is over… and a new reign begins!\nThe sequel plays nearly identically to the first game, except this time you play as the Queen instead of the King, complete with new characters to interact with and multiple branching storylines to discover. This is a great casual game that you can dive into for hours or play in small burst, and an ideal way to kill a bit of time around the holidays.\nDownload: Reigns: Her Majesty ($2.99)\nTrivia Crack\nTrivia Crack still claims to be the most popular trivia game in the world, although with HQ Trivia coming to Android on Christmas Day that just might be changing.\nNevertheless, Trivia Crack is still a great game to play for any occasion, but especially around Christmas. It's a head-to-head trivia game where you take turns answering trivia questions You spin the wheel and try and collect a trivia crown for the six different categories — Art, History, Science, Sports, Geography and Entertainment. Its great fun to play alone, or rope in some of your family members and play as a group.\nDownload: Trivia Crack (Free)\nDownwell\nIf you prefer a break from the hustle and bustle of the holiday season, maybe you'd rather spend some quiet time at the bottom of a well. While we wouldn't advise anyone to actually crawling into a well, Downwell is the next best thing.\nThis is a really simple game that's easy to pick up but hard to master. There's no story so to speak — you control this little dude that shoots energy blasts out of his feet as he descends deeper and deeper down a well. You'll need to dodge or destroy enemies as you collect gems and purchase upgrades in this tough-as-nails game that will have you hooked for hours.\nDownwell is one of the best games for Android and it's definitely a game I keep coming back to whenever I have a bit of time to kill. Very addictive with no ads or in-app purchases to be bothered by.\nDownload: Downwell ($2.99)\nAlto's Adventure\nI will always recommend Alto's Adventure until the sequel is finally released. Whether you've played it before or not, Alto's Adventure is just one of the best games for killing time on Android.\nYou play as Alto, a snowboarding llama herder on a mission to track down his flock who have wandered down the mountain. You speed down the mountain hitting huge jumps and grinding along\nDownload: Alto's Adventure (Free)\nHeads Up!\nHeads Up! is a really fun local multiplayer trivia game. One player holds a phone or tablet to their head showing a word, and a teammate gives hints as to what the word is (without saying it specifically, of course). A quick flip down of the device brings up a fresh word when guessed right, while a flip-up is a pass. After it's all done, you can watch a video replay taken from the device's front-facing camera and share it out to friends. There are six themed packs available out of the gate, and plenty more through in-app purchases of about a buck a pop.\nDefinitely give Heads Up! a try if you're looking for a fun game that everyone in the family can play around the holidays.\nDownload: Heads Up! (Free w/IAPs)\nWords With Friends 2\nWords With Friends is a classic mobile game, and the sequel takes everything you loved about the original game and made things easier to play for quick games as well as playing by yourself.\nSo what's new with Words With Friends 2? Zynga has completely redesigned the look and feel of the game while also adding a bunch of cool new game modes. There's Solo Challenge which pits you against iconic literary figures controlled by the CPU, from Jane Austen to the master wordsmith himself William Shakespeare. Then there's Lightning Round which is a team-based mode where it's a race to get to 750 points. Each member of your team starts with their own board and you swap and add words to each other's board as fast as you can. Both of these modes seem to address the biggest gripe with the original game — waiting for your friend to finally play a word.\nIts a substantial update to a beloved game that'll likely lead to a whole bunch of Facebook invitations to play from friends and family, and does good work to further differentiate Words With Friends from Scrabble. Play it to kill time waiting for the family to show up for dinner, play cooperatively with your fam, or get your relatives in on the game so you can keep in touch through Words With Friends 2 throughout the year!\nDownload: Words With Friends 2 (Free)}}
{{Sign up for one of our email newsletters.\nWhen Unity native Julia Amadee began her career as a classically trained flutist, she didn't expect it would lead her to military basic training.\nAmadee, 30, is one of the newest members of the U.S. Army Old Guard Fife and Drum Corps.\nThe corps is a highly selective ceremonial unit. Members dress in uniforms reminiscent of those worn in the Revolutionary War and play instruments from the era at events around the country.\nAmadee heard about them a few years ago from a former professor and later saw them perform live.“I was just amazed, so that's really what sparked the interest,” she said.\nAmadee graduated from Greater Latrobe Area High School and studied music at Susquehanna University, then went on to get her master's degree in music and music performance at Boise State University in Idaho.\nShe's been an aspiring flutist since she was a child, but it took her a bit to get the hang of it, said her father, Charles Amadee.\n“She started playing flute in second grade. She couldn't get a note out of it, so they let her play recorder for a couple months,” he said.\nShe quickly moved beyond the recorder. After college, she spent three years playing for an orchestra in Montana, but the money wasn't great. She had to work other jobs to make ends meet, her father said.\n“She could have taken other opportunities outside of music, but she was insistent that she was going to make it, and she did,” he said.\nAmadee first applied to the Old Guard Fife and Drum Corps in 2015.\nPositions are rare and hard to get. Applicants must submit a resume. A small number of resumes are selected, and the candidates are brought in for a two-day audition process that tests every aspect of performers' skills — marching, playing music from memory, sight-reading music and standing at attention.\n“We would actually stand in a room for 30 minutes, and they'd make sure you were physically able to complete it,” she said. Amadee was brought in to audition, but she briefly forgot one of the parts she had memorized. She was eliminated, but she didn't give up.\nThe following year, there was another opening on the corps. She tried again and was selected for an audition, and this time she made it.\nThe work didn't stop there. All corps members are soldiers, so Amadee had to enlist in the Army, complete basic training, then return to Fort Myer in Arlington, Va., where she underwent even more training before she could take part in performances.\nShe had to master the fife. It's similar to the flute, but smaller and made of wood instead of metal. Performers use open holes instead of keys to adjust the pitch.\nThe corps brings together people from an interesting mix of musical backgrounds, she said.\n“You have people that come from the classic community, and you have people that come from the fife and drum community, which I knew nothing about,” she said.\nOne of her first performances was the Charlotte Thanksgiving Day Parade in North Carolina.\nShe said she's excited to have found a career that's meaningful and sustainable.\n“It's just great to be able to make music for a living,” she said.\n“It's fabulous,” her father said. “For Julia, it means so much because it just kind of validates her goal.\n“It's a testament to her persistence and her perseverance. She overcame a great many obstacles to get there,” he said.\nJacob Tierney is a Tribune-Review staff writer. Reach him at 724-836-6646.}}
{{* C$ at C$1.0297 vs US$, or 97.12 U.S. cents * U.S. claims for jobless benefits rise slightly last week * Bond yields rise By Solarina Ho TORONTO, July 25 (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar strengthened slightly on Thursday on the back of a generally weaker U.S. dollar but trading held within a narrow range as investors looked to next week's U.S. jobs data. "As has been the case in recent sessions, really, it's primarily just general (U.S.) dollar weakness," said Adam Cole, global head of FX strategy at RBC Capital Markets in London. "The big dollar generally is driving everything in our markets at the moment and that's driven by expectations of the Fed, and Fed policy's driven basically by the labor market." The number of Americans filing new claims for jobless benefits rose slightly last week in a sign the U.S. labor market continues to improve at a moderate pace. A four-week average of new claims, which smoothes out volatility, fell 1,250 from a week earlier. The Canadian dollar, which was mostly stronger against other major currencies, was trading at C$1.0297 versus the greenback, or 97.12 U.S. cents. This was firmer than Wednesday's North American finish at C$1.0316 to the U.S. dollar, or 96.94 U.S. cents. RBC expects Thursday's trading range to fall between C$1.0270 and C$1.0320. Next week's U.S. economic growth data and payroll processor ADP's report will be the early indicators for the health of the U.S. labor market. Bond yields have risen over the last few months as encouraging economic data bolstered expectations the U.S. Federal Reserve will begin winding down its bond-buying plan this year. The Bank of Canada is seen hiking interest rates next year. The price of Canadian government debt was lower on the higher end of the maturity curve. The two-year bond fell 2.5 Canadian cents to yield 1.161 percent, while the benchmark 10-year bond retreated 20 Canadian cents to yield 2.503 percent. The 30-year bond fell 45 Canadian cents to trade at 3.004 percent, the highest yield for the bond since October 2011.}}
{{The National Weather Service doesn’t predict more snow for Denver in the next few days but with the temperature expected to top out at 32 degrees on Sunday and snow already on the ground there is a chance Christmas morning could dawn bright, cold and white.\n“We won’t be getting any snow today,” said Bob Kleyla, of the NWS in Boulder. “Places that are sheltered will still be covered. Whether it will still go down as a white Christmas is hard to say. Snow depth at (Denver International Airport) is 2 inches but it will be sunny today.”\nIt is a different story in the mountains where scores of motorists were stuck on Interstate 70 around the Eisenhower-Johnson Memorial Tunnels — which lost power — on Saturday night as a winter storm pounded the state.\nThe Colorado Department of Transportation and State Patrol urged people to stay away from the icy, wind-swept interstate as they worked to try and clear crashes and roadway slide-offs and mitigate problem spots. CDOT said visibility in some areas was as low as five feet.\nI-70 closed in both directions approaching the tunnel Saturday afternoon. It reopened at about midnight, said Mike Murray, a CDOT spokesman. The power outage was weather related, according to Xcel Energy.\nEmergency equipment was brought into clear the road of accidents and stretches of the interstate that had been closed had to be re-plowed, Murray said.\nOn Sunday morning, Murray said, “the roads are not doing too bad. But it’s still icy and snow-packed up there.”\nMore snow is expected in the mountains beginning Sunday evening. In Steamboat Springs, for example, 7 to 11 inches are possible, and another 5 to 9 inches is expected on Christmas.\nIn Georgetown, 1 to 3 inches are possible Sunday evening, and another 2 to 4-inches are expected on Monday.}}
{{T-Mobile just found itself in the middle of the immigration debate. It can thank Corey Lewandowski for that.\nThe former Trump campaign manager appeared on Fox News’ The Story With Martha MacCallum last night to discuss the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance policy” of separating immigrant children and parents at the United States-Mexico border.\nFellow guest Zak Petkanas (a Democratic strategist) related the story of a 10-year-old girl with Down syndrome who was separated from her mother at the border.\nLewandowski’s response? “Womp womp.”\nyou sitting down? here’s Corey Lewandowski mockingly saying “womp womp” to the story of a 10-year-old girl with Down Syndrome who was separated from her mother at the border. pic.twitter.com/6lQZ7abkY4 — J.D. Durkin (@jiveDurkey) June 20, 2018\n“How dare you! How dare you!” Petkanas responded.\n“When you cross the border illegally, when you commit a crime, you are taken away from your family because that’s how this country works,” Lewandowski said.\nThese remarks were roundly and swiftly criticized.\n“This man should not be afforded a national platform to spew his hate,” Megyn Kelly wrote on Twitter.\nOther people contrasted Lewandowski’s heartless remarks with MSNBC host Rachel Maddow breaking down in tears over the border policy.\nAnd the Down syndrome community was also up in arms.\n“Our hearts and prayers go out to this child and her family during this unprecedented and trying time,” Sara Hart Weir, president of the National Down Syndrome Society, said in a statement.\nNot surprisingly, Lewandowski called the allegations “fake news.” He claimed he was mocking Petkanas and not the girl.\nLots of Fake News today. I mocked a liberal who attempted to politicize children as opposed to discussing the real issue which is fixing a broken immigration system. It’s offenseive that the MSM doesn’t want to talk about the fact these policies were started under Obama. — Corey R. Lewandowski (@CLewandowski_) June 20, 2018\nBut talk quickly turned from disgust with Lewandowski to anger at the companies that have employed him since he left the Trump campaign.\nLast month, T-Mobile hired Lewandowski as a consultant on its proposed merger with Sprint.\nThe advisory work came through Turnberry Solutions, a lobbying firm started last year by former Turmp campaign workers.\nT-Mobile said at the time that Lewandowski “offered perspective” as an “unpaid strategic adviser.”\nBut The Wall Street Journal then reported that Lewandowski “receives a cut of the fees paid to the lobbying firm on the T-Mobile contract.” He also shares Capitol Hill office space with Turnberry.\nPeople on Twitter quickly got wise to this and called on T-Mobile to stop getting rich off Lewandowski’s hate.\nYo @TMobile! Did you hear that Corey Lewandowski made fun of a 10 year old girl with Downs Syndrome who has been separated from her parents at the border on TV today? Kind of off-brand, no? https://t.co/Kz3wQHdbjU — Sleeping Giants (@slpng_giants) June 20, 2018\nCorey Lewandowski still has a cushy job at @TMobile, right? I think people should be letting them know that if he keeps that job after this, they don't need to still use TMobile. Womp womp. https://t.co/LtJLDgO9lW — Bob Chipman (@the_moviebob) June 20, 2018\nT-Mobile did not respond to Observer requests for comment.\nLewandowski is also working as an adviser to Vice President Mike Pence’s leadership PAC Great America Committee.\nAnd last fall, he was a fellow at the Institute of Politics at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government, along with Trump’s former press secretary Sean Spicer.\nAs such, calls are quickly growing for Harvard to disavow Lewandowski’s comments.\nHi @HarvardIOP, Just wanted to let you know that one of your fellows, Corey Lewandowski, just said, "Womp, Womp," when he was told about a child with Down Syndrome being taken from her mother at the border. Let us know your thoughts on this. Sincerely, Decent Human Beings — Nick Jack Pappas (@Pappiness) June 20, 2018\nso, you keeping him? — HeartLifeHolistic (@KathyAMorelli) June 20, 2018\nStill no response? Your “fellow” shows his inhumanity day after day, yet you proudly give him a platform at Harvard? — Byrön Stökes (@byst) June 20, 2018\nThe Institute of Politics did not respond to an Observer request for comment.\nLewandowski left the Trump campaign in March 2016 after being accused of roughly grabbing a reporter during an event at a Trump golf course.}}
{{He became a dad for the first time last week.\nAnd NRL star Jarryd Hayne is clearly enjoying fatherhood as he took to Instagram on Christmas Day to share an adorable snap of his newborn daughter sleeping.\nThe beautiful baby girl is pictured blissfully sleeping as the father captions the post: 'Bubba smiling in her dreams. Makes my heart melt ❤❤❤''.\nScroll down for video\nAdorable! NRL star Jarryd Hayne is clearly enjoying fatherhood as he took to Instagram on Christmas Day to share an adorable snap of his newborn daughter sleeping\nLast week Jarryd debuted his adorable newborn in a sweet snap from a private Gold Coast hospital.\nJarryd, who shares the baby girl with rumoured girlfriend Amellia Bonnici, 25, rested the youngster on his muscular chest as he looked down at her in awe.\nJarryd and Amellia met on Instagram early this year, and the 28-year-old athlete was surprised to discover she was pregnant, it was claimed at the time.\nScroll down for video\n'Daddy's girl': NRL star Jarryd Hayne debuts adorable snap with newborn daughter he shares with rumoured girlfriend Amellia Bonnici... after meeting on Instagram earlier this year\nCaptioning the cute image, the footaballer said: 'All praise to god above, for he never makes mistakes!!!! #daddysgirl.'\nThe sleeping beauty was dressed in a pink onesie and white beanie as Jarryd lay still in a white T-shirt.\nIt's a girl! Jarryd Hayne (L) and his rumoured girlfriend Amellia Bonnici (R) welcomed their daughter into the world 'a few days ago', The Sunday Telegraph reported\nThe name of the child is yet to be revealed. Jarryd's manager declined to comment when contacted by Daily Mail Australia.\nSources told The Sunday Telegraph that Amellia gave birth 'a few days ago' and both parents were 'besotted' with their new child.\nIt's also understood Jarryd has moved the brunette into his apartment in the Gold Coast and vows to support her.\nFirst time father: It's understood Jarryd has moved the brunette into his apartment in the Gold Coast and vows to support her in raising their daughter. Pictured: Jarryd in June 2016\nIt is believed the pregnancy played a part Jarryd quitting the San Francisco 49'ers and returning to Australia to play for the Gold Coast Titans.\nThe couple have remained silent on the topic of Amellia's pregnancy. Jarryd has repeatedly declined to comment, as have family members.\nAmellia grew up in Tuncurry, NSW, where her parents still live. She was a student at Great Lakes High School, before graduating and moving to Sydney.\nReturn home: It is believed the pregnancy played a part Jarryd quitting the San Francisco 49'ers and returning to Australia to play for the Gold Coast Titans\nShe was living in the beachside suburb of Coogee, when she met Hayne early this year through Instagram, New Idea claimed.\nConsidering Jarryd's faith - and Amellia's presence at a service of the controversial church recently - it is possible they will raise the child with the help of Hillsong.\nSince joining in 2008, after an altercation in a Kings Cross alleyway which almost saw him shot, Jarryd has become a supporter of the church.}}
{{OCILLA, Georgia (Reuters) - Morena Vasquez didn’t want to drive that February night last year, but a co-worker at her job cleaning offices near Atlanta needed some keys dropped off.\nMorena Vasquez comforts her son Isai Rodriguez, 5, at their home in Rome, Georgia, U.S. February 23, 2018. REUTERS/Chris Aluka Berry\n“I knew it was my responsibility,” Vasquez said.\nDriving was always risky for the 38-year-old mother of six. An El Salvador native, she had crossed illegally into the United States as a teenager, and though she had lived in Georgia for 23 years, she was unable to get a driver’s license under state law.\nWithin minutes of heading out, Vasquez saw police lights flashing in her rearview mirror.\nShe panicked and sped up. Then she thought better of it. After all, two previous traffic violations had resulted in only a ticket or a court date. She pulled the car over and stopped.\nAnd with that, a 15-minute errand turned into a nightmarish entanglement in the toughened-up immigration policies of U.S. President Donald Trump – an experience that tore apart the life she had spent more than two decades building for herself and her family.\nLocal police arrested Vasquez and quickly handed her over to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials, who packed her off to the agency’s detention center in Ocilla, Georgia, at the other end of the state. There, ICE officers decided against releasing her on bond. She would have to stay behind bars while awaiting the outcome of the deportation proceedings brought against her.\nFor the next year, Vasquez languished in the crowded detention center. She repeatedly asked an immigration judge for bond so she could await her day in court back with her family. And repeatedly, bond was denied as ICE argued that she was a flight risk. Even after a judge ruled that she had the right to stay legally and permanently in the United States, she was kept locked up for five more months as ICE fought the decision.\nShe lost her two jobs – teaching Spanish at a preschool, as well as the office-cleaning gig. She lost the five-bedroom house she rented. Her six children, ages 4 to 17 at the time of her arrest and all of them U.S. citizens, had to relocate in the middle of the school year to live near their ailing grandfather in another town, far from the detention center.\nIn one of the letters Vasquez’s children sent to the immigration court during their mother’s incarceration, 9-year-old Kevyn pleaded: “Pless. Pless. (Please. Please.) I want my mom to take care of me and my little brother. I don’t want my mom to go to Salvador.”\n“ANIMALS” AND PEOPLE\nPresident Trump has often pointed to Central American gang members and other criminal “animals” as the main targets of his strengthened immigration-law enforcement. But as his administration has expanded its dragnet under a series of executive orders, ICE has locked up thousands of people like Vasquez – people with little or no criminal history, with deep roots in their communities, who present little flight risk.\nIn earlier years, ICE would have released many of these people on bond soon after their arrest, allowing them to live with their families while awaiting legal proceedings that can take years. Now, ICE is denying bond for many of those people and pushing to keep them in detention for the duration of their cases, Reuters found, based on an analysis of government data and dozens of interviews with immigration judges, lawyers and current and former officials.\n“There has been a noticeable change since the administration took over of greater reluctance, if not outright unwillingness, by ICE to entertain or grant bond,” said Greg Chen, director of government relations at the American Immigration Lawyers Association.\nICE officials did not respond directly to that assertion, and the agency declined to provide complete data on the number of bonds it has issued. ICE spokesman Matthew Bourke said that decisions are made on “a case-by-case basis, taking into account factors like immigration history, criminal history and community ties.”\nWhile ICE bond numbers are not available, data from the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR), which oversees the nation’s immigration courts, provide evidence that immigration officials are increasingly denying bond in the Trump era.\nThe number of detained immigrants requesting bond hearings in immigration court – their only option if ICE denies them bond when they are arrested – surged 38 percent during the first year of the Trump administration from the previous year to 73,000, a two-decade high, a Reuters analysis of EOIR data shows.\nAt the same time, immigrants are being held in detention far longer, as many initially denied bond by ICE are forced to await the outcome of subsequent bond hearings in court. The average length of detention for non-criminals reached 63 days in April 2017, double what it was a year earlier and the longest monthly average since at least 2010, according to the most recent ICE data.\nThe Department of Justice, which oversees EOIR, declined to comment on the Reuters data analysis.\nThe increasing number of bond hearings is also thwarting the Trump administration in its effort to reduce a ballooning backlog of cases in immigration courts. As judges have been forced to shift their dockets to make room for bond hearings, the backlog has surged, reaching an all-time high of 711,142 pending cases in May this year.\nRecent media attention has focused on the Trump administration’s policy of removing children from parents caught crossing the U.S.-Mexico border illegally. The Reuters findings show that denial of bond is also separating families that have been in the country for years and include children who are U.S. citizens.\n“It’s not like criminal proceedings where in 48 hours somebody is deciding whether or not you need to be in jail,” said Katherine Evans, who directs the immigration clinic at the University of Idaho College of Law. “This is four to six weeks later. … You’ve already lost your job, you have no income, all of the consequences of being in jail are imposed before you can get any review of whether or not you need to be in jail.”\n“It’s an absurd, let alone inhumane, expenditure of resources,” said Elizabeth Matherne, Vasquez’s lawyer. “You are putting people in cages that are not harmful to society.”\n“CATCH AND RELEASE”\nUnder longstanding U.S. policy, immigrants caught crossing the border illegally and those with serious criminal records are subject to mandatory detention, allowing for exceptions on humanitarian grounds.\nMost of the rest – those without serious criminal records already living in the United States and often with deep ties to their communities, like Vasquez – in earlier years were typically released on bond, immigration lawyers said.\nBut in one of his earliest executive orders, Trump put all immigrants living in the country illegally on notice: Officials were directed to “ensure the detention of aliens apprehended for violations of immigration law pending the outcome of their removal proceedings.”\nIn other words, anyone apprehended on immigration violations could be locked up. The move was strongly backed by U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions and other longtime critics of the practice they derisively call “catch and release,” whereby immigrants deemed low-risk are released soon after arrest to fight their deportation cases.\nTo conform to Trump’s policies, Reuters has learned, ICE modified a tool officers have been using since 2013 when deciding whether an immigrant should be detained or released on bond. The computer-based Risk Classification Assessment uses statistics to determine an immigrant’s flight risk and danger to society.\nPreviously, the tool automatically recommended either “detain” or “release.” Last year, ICE spokesman Bourke said, the agency removed the “release” recommendation, but he noted that ICE personnel can override it.\nThe impact of these changes was immediate. The number of immigrants with no criminal history that ICE booked into detention tripled to more than 43,000 in 2017 from a year earlier, according to agency data.\nAnd while ICE continues to arrest more immigrants with criminal records than those without, the most recent data that the agency provided show that in the first 100 days of the Trump administration, the most serious crime committed by nearly half of those arrested was an immigration or traffic violation, not including drunken driving.\nMorena Vasquez (L) gets ready for church as her children hang out in their living room in Rome, Georgia, U.S. February 23, 2018. REUTERS/Chris Aluka Berry\nPOLICE HELP\nWhen Vasquez was arrested last year, her record showed two convictions in 2014 for driving without a license and other traffic violations. It also showed that in 2004, Vasquez was sentenced to probation for contributing to the delinquency of a minor after a child she was babysitting wandered too close to a highway.\nDouglas County police held Vasquez briefly, she said, before they transferred her to adjacent Cobb County, one of several jurisdictions in Georgia where local police are deputized to act as federal immigration agents. The number of these so-called 287(g) agreements has more than doubled under Trump.\nSean Gallagher, director of ICE’s enforcement and removal operations in the Atlanta field office, covering Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina, said he strongly supports the partnerships. He said some of his officers were frustrated by Obama-era policies that targeted high-priority immigrants for deportation but ignored others.\nNow, Gallagher said. “the policy is really, really clear. It’s that we will make no exceptions.”\nThe Atlanta field office arrested more than 5,700 non-criminals in 2017, nearly six times as many as the year before and the highest increase in the nation.\nPolice records show that because Vasquez had failed to appear in court for one of her traffic tickets, ICE in 2015 had issued a “detainer” for her arrest – a notice to local authorities of her illegal presence in the United States. Cooperating police departments automatically turn over to federal authorities any immigrants with outstanding detainers who are picked up in their jurisdictions.\nAfter her arrest, Vasquez was frantic. She had left her sleeping children in the care of her 17-year-old daughter. She called the pastor at her church to pick up her car and alert everyone at home.\n“I know how hard all of this has been on her … and on all the kids,” said Ruth Negron, pastor at Iglesia Cristo Reina, where Vasquez attended services several times a week and led a drama group.\nVasquez was just getting back on her feet, Negron said, after her Mexican husband was deported five years earlier and subsequently disabled in a car accident. She had only recently moved herself and the children out of a trailer and into their larger rental home.\nWhen ICE denied Vasquez bond at the time of her arrest, any hope she had that she would be released soon and back with her family evaporated. Within days, she was taken to the agency’s Irwin County Detention Center in Ocilla, Georgia, near the Florida border.\nA month later, Vasquez had her first hearing in front of Judge William Cassidy, broadcast via grainy video feed from his Atlanta courtroom.\n“I was going ... to see if you could give me a bond, because I have six children and I am the head of my household,” Vasquez told the judge, according to a transcript.\nThe ICE prosecutor countered that Vasquez was a flight risk because of her failure to appear in court on earlier traffic charges.\nJudge Cassidy agreed. He urged her to get a lawyer and sent her back to detention.\nThe entire proceeding lasted less than five minutes.\nMatherne, the lawyer who later took Vasquez’s case, and other immigrant advocates said that before Trump took office, such a case — involving an immigrant with a relatively clean record and long-established in the United States — would never have gone this far.\n“How it used to work is they would go through the ICE processing center and some sort of analysis would take place and you wouldn’t even see people like Morena in detention,” Matherne said. “They would be released under supervision or on their own recognizance” and given a court date to contest their deportation order.\nSupporters of the Trump administration’s tough enforcement say that’s the problem – that releasing immigrants on bond encourages them to skip court dates and go into hiding. Making that argument last October, Attorney General Sessions noted that deportation orders issued in absentia “have doubled since 2012, with nearly 40,000 in the 2017 fiscal year.”\nEOIR data confirm the increase, but also show that most immigrants still show up for their court dates: 74 percent of immigrants appeared at their final hearings in 2017, down from 90 percent in 2012.\nMONEY PROBLEMS\nWhile the number of people requesting bond hearings in immigration court has surged, they are no more likely to succeed at winning release than they were during the Obama administration. Last year, immigration judges granted bond in 42 percent of cases, similar to the rate in prior years, according to the Reuters analysis.\nJudge Cassidy, who denied Vasquez’s bond request, fell below the national average, granting bond in 35 percent of cases over the past decade. (In an investigation last year here, Reuters found that decisions on whether to deport illegal immigrants or allow them to stay in the country vary widely among immigration courts. Judges in Georgia and North Carolina were among the toughest.)\nIn more than 30 bond hearings Reuters observed in February and March at immigration courts in New York City, Los Angeles, Atlanta and at the Stewart Detention Center, another Georgia facility, ICE prosecutors agreed to negotiate bonds in only three cases. And in each of those, bond was set at more than $10,000, far above the $1,500 legal minimum.\nSums like that can be prohibitive. Unlike U.S. criminal defendants, who can usually put up 10 percent of their bail amount with a bondsman and secure their release, immigrants must post their bonds in full.\nArturo Flores, a 45-year-old Mexican immigrant and single father, had been living illegally in the United States for more than 17 years when he was arrested in November 2017 in North Carolina for driving 15 miles an hour over the limit and without a license. In North Carolina, as in Georgia, people without legal immigration status can’t get licenses.\nICE set his bond at $12,000.\nThe family didn’t have enough to pay. His two teenage children, living with an uncle after their father was placed in the Irwin County Detention Center, had just sent what little money they had to Mexico to help pay for their mother’s funeral, who died while their father was in custody.\nIn January, Judge Michael Baird granted Flores’s request to lower the amount, to $5,000. It took the family another two months to scrape together the cash.\nFlores said his health deteriorated during nearly four months in detention. Less than a week after his release in March, he had a stroke and was hospitalized.\nHe thinks the ordeal contributed to his health problems. “I was very stressed out and worried about my children surviving without their mother or their father,” he said from his home in North Carolina, where he is waiting for his next hearing in immigration court.\nSlideshow (35 Images)\nJUST GIVE UP\nSome immigrants facing long incarcerations decide to give up and leave the country.\nHender Huerta, a 30-year-old former police detective from Venezuela, applied for asylum in December 2016, six months after coming to the United States with his pregnant wife and his daughter on a tourist visa. Huerta had been active in opposition politics back home, and in his asylum application, he said he had received death threats for his anti-government activities.\nHuerta could remain free while pursuing his asylum claim because he and his family had entered on legal visas. But on Feb. 17 last year, he was pulled over on a traffic stop in Georgia. He said the officer told him his Venezuelan driver’s license was not valid in the state.\nHe tried to explain his situation, including that he had a newborn at home, but the Gwinnett County Sheriff’s Office, which has an enforcement agreement with ICE, handed him over to federal authorities.\n“The ICE officer told me because of Trump’s policies anyone who has a pending process will move on to immigration detention,” Huerta said.\nHe waited four months at the Irwin County Detention Center for a bond hearing. Last June, Judge Earl Wilson in Atlanta refused to release him because his asylum hearing was just a few days away. Then at that hearing, Judge Wilson denied Huerta’s asylum claim, saying he had not provided enough corroborating evidence to support his claims of persecution.\nHuerta’s lawyer, Sarah Owings, said her client could have gathered the necessary documents if he hadn’t been incarcerated.\n“I can’t believe the court found this man a flight risk,” Owings said, according to a recording of the hearing.\nOwings told Reuters she thought Huerta would have had a strong case on appeal, but to Huerta, the prospect of remaining in detention was unbearable. He waived his right to appeal. The judge ordered him deported. Huerta thought Venezuela was too dangerous, so he made his way to Mexico, where he now works for a food distribution company.\n“At first, I had hope I would get out,” Huerta said via phone from Hermosillo, Mexico. “But my wife and daughters didn’t have anywhere to go, and I had no way to help them.”\n“WHAT’S THE HOLD UP?”\nIn detention, Vasquez, too, had no way to help her children.\nAfter her church persuaded her landlord to let her out of her lease, her children slept on the floor of a cousin’s house for several weeks. Then their grandfather, a U.S. green-card holder ill with diabetes, found a place where all of them could live in Rome, Georgia, an hour from their old home.\nThe eight-hour round-trip drive to the detention center made it hard for Vasquez’s children to visit. They wrote their letters to the court to plead to have their mother back.\nVasquez earned $1 a day washing dishes in the detention center kitchen. She felt humiliated when she joined the other inmates as the guards herded them into the cafeteria for what they called “chow time.” The phrase reminded her of a dog food commercial. She lost 20 pounds.\nIn May 2017, her case was moved from Judge Cassidy to Judge Wilson, the judge who had denied Huerta’s asylum claim. In a series of hearings through spring and summer last year, Vasquez’s repeated requests for bond were denied.\nVasquez despaired. Giving up and returning to El Salvador, a country unknown to her children, was not an option. When she was a teenager, a friend had tried to recruit her to join a violent street gang. When her mother found out, she sent Vasquez to live with her father in the United States.\nVasquez’s sister stayed in El Salvador. She was murdered by gangs in 2012, her face mutilated with stab wounds, local police records show.\nVasquez’s mother, Ana Henriquez, wrote to the court from El Salvador, pleading with the judge to let her daughter stay in the United States. “The situation here is horrible,” Henriquez wrote. “I cannot feed or look after my daughter and my grandchildren. They are North Americans and I am very poor.”\nIn September, Vasquez had a hearing on the merits of her case. Judge Wilson found that she had “worked hard in the United States, and has taken care of her family, and for the most part has stayed out of trouble.”\nAs a result, he ruled that Vasquez was eligible for “cancellation of removal,” meaning that her deportation order would be withdrawn and she could live and work legally in the United States.\nThe government appealed the ruling, arguing that Vasquez had failed to prove that her father, a permanent U.S. resident, and her six children, citizens all, would suffer “exceptional and extremely unusual hardship” if she was deported, the standard required.\nShe was sent back to detention.\nAll hope seemed lost. But unbeknownst to Vasquez, her eldest daughter had told her teachers about the family’s predicament, and that the school had helped them contact pro-bono lawyers from the Southern Poverty Law Center.\nNow with legal counsel, Vasquez asked for another bond hearing. And on Feb. 20 — a year since her arrest — she found herself again facing Wilson on the video feed.\n“I was so nervous … my feet were shaking,” she said. “I think I told him my name three times.”\nHer lawyer, Matherne, reminded Wilson that he had granted Vasquez’s request to stay legally in the country more than five months earlier.\n“Well, what’s the hold up?” Wilson said. “Why isn’t she released?”\nThe prosecutor at the hearing, Alex Brown, argued that Judge Wilson’s cancellation of Vasquez’s deportation order would probably be overturned on ICE’s appeal, which would give Vasquez an incentive to go underground if she were released. He suggested a $7,500 bond.\nMatherne said the amount was unreasonable. “The respondent’s father has been taking care of six children on his own,” she said. “He’s diabetic, and he has heart problems. He’s exhausted his savings.”\nJudge Wilson agreed. “She’s not going anywhere,” he said. “I think this is a $1,500 bond case.”\nWhen the judge announced he would grant the lowest level of bond allowed, other detainees in the room burst into applause.\nVasquez’s family scrambled to borrow the money to pay the bond that day.\nA week later, the Board of Immigration Appeals threw out the government’s appeal, clearing the path for Vasquez to stay permanently in the United States.\nVasquez is now working odd jobs on construction sites and staying with roommates in Cobb County, looking for a place to settle with her children while she waits to complete all the steps needed to obtain her green card.\n“I feel knocked out and confused,” Vasquez said. “It’s a big adjustment getting back into society again.”}}
{{By JIM GOMEZ\nAssociated Press\nMANILA, Philippines (AP) — A powerful typhoon is on its way to slam into the eastern Philippines on Christmas Day as officials struggled to divert people’s attention from family celebrations and travel. A provincial governor offered roasted pigs to entice villagers to move to emergency shelters.\nTyphoon Nock-Ten packed maximum sustained winds of 185 kilometers (114 miles) per hour and gusts of up to 255 kph (158 mph), and was expected to smash into the island province of Catanduanes Sunday night. It’s then forecast to blow westward across the southern portion of the main Luzon island and pass close to the capital, Manila, on Monday, before exiting into the South China Sea. Nock-Ten may weaken after landfall and hitting the Sierra Madre mountain range in southern Luzon.\nHeavy rainfall, destructive winds and battering waves were threatening heavily populated rural and urban regions, where the Philippine weather agency raised typhoon warnings. Officials warned of storm surges in coastal villages, flash floods and landslides and asked villagers to evacuate to safer grounds.\nBut Christmas is the biggest holiday in the country, Asia’s bastion of Catholicism, giving officials a hard time getting people’s attention away from the holidays to heed the warnings. With many refusing to leave high-risk communities, some officials said they decided to carry out forced evacuations.\nIn the past 65 years, seven typhoons have struck the Philippines on Christmas Day, according to the government’s weather agency.\nGov. Miguel Villafuerte of Camarines Sur, which is on the typhoon’s forecast path, offered roast pigs, a popular Christmas delicacy locally called “lechon,” in evacuation centers to entice villagers to move to emergency shelters.\n“I know it’s Christmas … but this is a legit typhoon,” Villafuerte tweeted on Christmas Eve. “Please evacuate, we’ll be having lechon at evacuation centers.”\nCamarines Sur officials targeted about 50,000 families — some 250,000 people — for evacuation by Saturday night, but the number of those who responded was far below expectations.\nIn Catanduanes province, Vice Gov. Shirley Abundo said she has ordered a forced evacuation of villagers, saying some “are really hard-headed, they don’t want to leave their houses because it’s Christmas.”\n“We need to do this by force, we need to evacuate them now,” she told ABS-CBN television.\nThe Department of Social Welfare and Development, which helps oversee government response during disasters, said only about 4,200 people were reported to have moved to six evacuation centers by Sunday morning in the Bicol region that includes Camarines Sur. She expects more people to heed evacuation orders as the weather begins to deteriorate.\n“It’s difficult to force celebrations when our lives will be put at risk. Please prioritize safety and take heed of warnings by local government units,” welfare official Felino Castro told The Associated Press by telephone.\nHe said food, water and other emergency supplies had been pre-positioned in areas expected to be lashed by the typhoon. His department was to activate an emergency cluster composed of the military, police, coast guard and other agencies Sunday to oversee disaster-response plans.\nAbout 20 typhoons and storms, mostly from the Pacific, lash the Philippine archipelago each year and provincial governments have long laid down a contingency system to launch war-like logistical preparations each time a major typhoon approaches.\nBut in an impoverished nation of more than 100 million people, where many live near the coast and on and around mountains and volcanoes, deadly natural catastrophes are a part of life in one of the most disaster-prone countries in the world.\nIn November 2013, Typhoon Haiyan struck the central Philippines with ferocious power, leaving more than 7,300 people dead and missing and displacing more than 5 million others after leveling entire villages despite days of dire warnings by government officials.\nResidents flee as typhoon approaches\nManila, Philippines (CNN) Thousands of residents of low-lying areas of eastern provinces in the Philippines have been moved by authorities as Super typhoon Nock-ten nears the Southeast Asian country.\nOfficials say over 1,000 families have been evacuated from the eastern province of Camarines Sur, and the provinces of Catanduanes and Albay have been declared under a “state of imminent danger/disaster.”\nThe storm is growing stronger as it bears down on the Bicol region, tropical storm monitors report. The storm is expected to make landfall in the evening of Christmas Day in Catanduanes, an island province in the Bicol region.\nThe Joint Typhoon Warning Center reports that Nock-ten, locally known as Nina, currently has maximum sustained winds of 250 kph (155 mph) and gusts of up to 305 kph (190 mph).\nThe storm’s last recorded location was 100 kilometers (62 miles) east of Catanduanes, and it is forecast to move west at 15 kph (9 mph).\nThe National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council reports 11,476 passengers, over 1,000 cargo ships and over a dozen other vessels were stranded in various ports in the region. The Philippines’ tropical cyclone warning signal number 4 has been hoisted for Catanduanes and neighboring Camarines Sur. The warning signal, the second-highest level on the scale of alerts, indicates the storm could cause “heavy damage” to high-risk structures. Rice, corn and coconut plantations will likely suffer severe losses. The Philippines Atmospheric, Geological and Astronomical Services Administration reports a possible storm surge of two to three meters in coastal areas.\nForecasters warned that the storm could bring lashing winds and dump heavy rain in several areas across of the country, including the capital, Manila. There are fears that Nock-ten could potentially bring flooding to the capital, one of the most densely populated urban centers of the country, during the busy holiday weekend. PAGASA reports that the typhoon will cause moderate to heavy rainfall in a 500-kilometer (311-mile) radius.\nThe typhoon warning center projects that the typhoon will gradually weaken “as the system begins to interact with land,” but warned it could still retain typhoon intensity. The governor of the eastern seaboard province of Camarines Sur, Miguel Villafuerte, posted on Twitter that nearly 50,000 family evacuations had been scheduled by 7 p.m. Saturday local time (6 a.m. ET). Camarines Sur is roughly 181 kilometers (112 miles ) away from the projected landfall location of the typhoon but also is a potential target. As an added incentive to push people out of their homes and into shelters ahead of Christmas in this Catholic-majority country, Villafuerte has promised to provide the traditional dish of lechon (roasted pig) for his constituents if they proceed to evacuation centers, CNN affiliate ABS-CBN reported.}}
{{(CNN) Mexican authorities rescued 178 migrants found abandoned in a trailer in Veracruz state, the country's National Institute for Migration said.\nThey are being housed in the nearby town of Tantima, where local authorities are providing aid. Their health conditions were not immediately known.\nDeveloping story - more to come}}
{{Italy’s hardline interior minister condemned Benetton for using a photograph of migrants being rescued in the Mediterranean in an advertisement, calling the choice “squalid”.\nThe clothing company took out two-page advertisements in Italian papers this week, using a huge photograph of a rescuer throwing orange lifejackets to dozens of African refugees who had been rescued off the coast of Libya.\nThe words “United Colors of Benetton” appeared in the bottom right-hand corner.\n“Is it only me who finds this squalid?” Matteo Salvini, who is also deputy prime minister and head of the hard-Right League party, wrote on Twitter.\nSupporters of The League in the northern Veneto region, the home of Benetton, said they would boycott the fashion firm’s products.\nThe Benetton ad was also criticised by SOS Mediterranee, the French charity that operates the rescue vessel Aquarius, which was last week refused permission to enter an Italian port and instead had to take 629 migrants and refugees to Valencia in Spain.\n"SOS Mediterranee fully dissociates itself from this campaign which displays a picture taken while our teams were rescuing people in distress at sea on June 9," the charity said.\nThe "dignity of survivors must be respected at all times. The human tragedy at stake in the Mediterranean must never be used for any commercial purposes."}}
{{Mistress Kaz coins it in at Christmas (Picture: SWNS)\nA dominatrix has revealed her customers cannot get enough festive whipping and bondage as Christmas is her busiest time of the year.\nMistress Kaz, also known as Karen Louise, even sold out slots for her Christmas Day party where men pay £250 an hour to dress up as elves and get abused.\nMeet the real Mrs Christmas who transforms her home into a winter wonderland\nKaz, 35, will then cook the turkey, and get the elves to massage her feet, bring her gifts and clean the house – and whips them if they do a bad job.\nShe said: ‘My boyfriend and my family completely understand why I ditch them on Christmas Day to spend time with my slaves.\n‘Not only do I earn great money from it, but they dress up as cute little elves and do everything for me. For the past three years, it has become tradition for me to have slaves over on Christmas Day.\n‘It’s great fun- I’m their master and if they do something wrong they get punished. Last year they burned the turkey and were punished with twenty lashings each.’\nKaz, who lives in Reading, owns a range of paddles, whips and chains worth over £8,000 and always makes sure she dresses the part.’\nMistress Kaz with one of her festive hostage sex dolls (Picture: SWNS)\nShe said: ‘Mostly my customers are men with high-powered jobs, such as lawyers or businessmen, who just want to be told what to do and completely lose control.\n‘For some men it’s sexual and for others it’s just a matter of humiliation.\n‘My boyfriend is completely comfortable with what I do- in fact he sits in the lounge next door on his computer whilst I work on my slaves, but he’s never met one in person.’\nAccording to Kaz, Christmas is a really popular time of year for those seeking dominance.\nShe said: “Christmas is a particularly busy time of year for my work, as men are willing to splash out and spend a bit more to have a good time.\nReading Dominatrix Mistress Kaz charges men £250 hour to dress up as an elf (Picture: SWNS)\n‘Back in 2014, I decided to invite some of my favourite regulars over to spend Christmas Day with me and it was such a giggle it became a tradition. They arrive at 1pm and stay with me until 10pm.’\n“I dress up in a sexy PVC Santa outfit and give them little elf costumes, which they love.’\nKaz now plans to spend every Christmas being pampered by her slaves.\nShe said: ‘I used to spend Christmas day with my family, helping to cook the turkey and watching TV, but I find it much more fun with my elves. Thanks to them, it really is the most wonderful time of the year.’\nMORE: First pictures of man who confessed to murder of British diplomat Rebecca Dykes\nMORE: Neo-Nazi teenager ‘murdered girlfriend’s parents’ after they told her to dump him}}
{{TORONTO — The Canadian government says it will soon announce the date of when cannabis will become legal — but warns it will remain illegal until then.\nThe Senate gave final passage to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's bill to legalize cannabis on Tuesday. But Canadians will have to wait at least a couple of months to legally buy marijuana. The country will become the second in the world to make pot legal nationwide.\nThe federal government says provincial and territorial governments will need eight to 12 weeks following Senate passage and royal assent to prepare for retail sales. Legal sales are expected to start sometime in early or mid-September.\nJustice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould suggested the legalization date could be announced by Trudeau as soon as later Wednesday.}}
{{SAN FRANCISCO, July 3 (Reuters) - Google Inc’s YouTube said on Wednesday that it has made an investment in Vevo, an online music video hub that provides some of the most popular content on YouTube.\nYouTube and Vevo also renewed the partnership that allows YouTube to feature Vevo’s music videos on its website, with the two companies sharing the ad revenue.\nThe original partnership deal, which dates back to 2009, ended in December, but had been temporarily renewed while the two companies negotiated a renewal. The companies did not provide details about the terms of the renewal.\nThe size of the investment, which YouTube did not disclose, was between $40 million and $50 million, according to Billboard.\n“We made an investment in VEVO. We are excited by their future prospects and to provide YouTube users with the best possible music experience,” YouTube said in a statement.\nVevo, which is a joint venture owned by Universal Music Group, Sony Music Entertainment and Abu Dhabi Media Co, did not return requests for comment.\nVevo streams music videos on its own website. It also has a co-branded “channel” on YouTube that features music videos from popular artists, including Rihanna, Adele and Lil Wayne.\nVevo was the most popular partner channel on YouTube in the United States in May, with 50 million unique viewers, who spent an average of 36.1 minutes on the channel, according to industry research firm ComScore.\nYouTube is the world’s most popular online video destination, with more than 4 billion video streams every day. While much of the fare on YouTube consists of amateur home videos that users upload to the site, YouTube has stepped up efforts in recent years to provide professionally produced videos.}}
{{A 10-year-old girl has died after falling ill on a Christmas Eve trans-Atlantic flight to London.\nThe girl was travelling from Toronto to Heathrow Airport when she suffered a medical complaint, which resulted in the flight being diverted to Shannon, Ireland on Saturday.\nA doctor and a nurse were reportedly on board the Air Canada flight at the time of the incident, and helped the crew assist the child.\nThe girl was travelling on the Boeing 787 plane with three adult siblings, and the pilot said the child had a cardiac arrest, the Irish Mirror reported.\nAn ambulance and rapid response advanced paramedic unit were sent ahead of the flight, arriving at around 7.40pm, the paper added.\nThe girl was taken to University Hospital Limerick, where she was pronounced dead a short while later.\nThe flight, which has been carrying 230 passengers, later continued on to London.}}
{{Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video\nThe Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video\nWatch above: Lollipop campaigners celebrate reprieve last year\nThe axe has been lifted from over the heads of Birmingham’s lollipop ladies after funding was found to halt the annual threat to their jobs.\nBirmingham City Council bosses have agreed to guarantee £750,000 per year funding for the school crossing patrol service over the next few years, easing the pressure after a series of high-profile job threats.\nIt is a marked change as the service was threatened with the axe in the last two budget rounds , only to be reprieved following public outcry , a political backlash and a campaign from the Birmingham Mail .\nThe funding is short of the £880,000 currently spent on the service – but council bosses have guaranteed that patrols at all priority crossings, ones where there are no alternative pelican or zebra crossings, will be maintained.\nIt means that the majority of the 180 wardens will not be facing redundancy when the 2017 budget plans are unveiled early next year.\nAlongside the guaranteed funding the city council is launching a new Active Children Trust to support safer travel to schools for the city’s children. The charity will provide small grants to pay for training and equipment - such as fluorescent bibs for walking buses or warning signs.\nAnti-cuts protest in Perry Common ahead of city council's 2015 budget u-turn\nLabour council leader John Clancy, who announced plans for a Trust in the spring after the warden service was spared the axe for a second year running, said: “Ensuring that our children can travel in a safe and healthy way when out and about in Birmingham is of great importance to me.\n“That’s why we are looking at how we can encourage parents, pupils and staff to adopt alternative ways of travelling to school to reduce car journeys, and improve not only their health but that of the wider community – with reduced road danger, and less air pollution and traffic congestion in local neighbourhoods.\n“As a council we’ve done lots such as the work to introduce 20mph limits, traffic calming measures and the development of better cycling and walking routes but we know that there will be some very specific things needed to address local circumstances – the new trust will give citizens a way to unlock funding for measures other than physical highways improvements that make their areas better places in which to live.”\nThe Trust is being kick started with £75,000 from the council plus a £25,000 donation from a major corporate sponsor - due to be confirmed in the next few weeks. Schools and parents will be able to bid for grants of up to £1,000 for initiatives.\nAccording to the GMB union , which represents wardens, statistics gathered in 2014 showed that, out of 2,628 road accidents recorded in Birmingham, only five occurred near crossings operated by School Crossing Patrol Wardens.}}
{{Please enable Javascript to watch this video\nCLEVELAND - Merry Christmas!\nToday will be very quiet and mainly gray with some sun in the afternoon. Fairly mild for this time of the year.\nClick here for the Fox 8 weather page.\nTracking showers and milder temperatures the day after Christmas. It will be very mild and blustery! Highs will be flirting with 60° and winds could gust to nearly 30 mph.\nWhite Christmas? The only places where a trace of remnant snow may be seen on the ground (where it isn’t piled up high, like in parking lots) will be in the traditional snow belt that received over two feet in places only a week or two ago. Having said that, it appears that this Christmas will be snow-less (officially at Hopkins Airport).\nBut, what are the odds of seeing at least a trace of snow on the ground OR at least falling in the air?\nAs of Friday, December is averaging colder than normal, but with the brief warming we see heading into the Holiday weekend and beyond, the December average may end up just inside the “normal” range of +/- 2°F:\nNote that the first of three cold smacks arrived on December 8th. That’s the point at which this 22-day timelapse shows the ground going from no snow to snow:\nHere’s the latest Fox 8 Day Forecast. There are a couple of chances for snow as we round out 2016 and welcome 2017.}}
{{Get politics updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nThe Queen has paid tribute to those who inspire the nation in her annual Christmas message.\nHer Majesty praised those who save lives, win sporting medals or impress through quiet dedication.\nLooking back on a year that has seen momentous change with the Brexit vote and national celebrations for her 90th birthday, the Queen highlighted the efforts of these remarkable individuals.\nIn her televised message the Queen said "on our own" we could not solve global problems but the collective effect of many could have a positive impact.\n(Photo: Getty Images Europe)\nShe said: "But even with the inspiration of others, it's understandable that we sometimes think the world's problems are so big that we can do little to help.\n"On our own, we cannot end wars or wipe out injustice, but the cumulative impact of thousands of small acts of goodness can be bigger than we imagine."\nIn her message to the nation the Queen singled out for special praise ordinary people like volunteers and carers doing "extraordinary things".\nShe described how Mother Teresa, declared a saint this year by Pope Francis, summed up the contributions of these unsung heroes with the words: "Not all of us can do great things. But we can do small things with great love."\nThere was no mention in the Christmas message of Brexit, which saw David Cameron resign as prime minister in the wake of the UK voting to leave the European Union.\n(Photo: Getty)\nAt the time of the vote, Buckingham Palace complained about reports suggesting she backed Brexit , insisting the Queen was "politically neutral".\nBut she did highlight one of the major sporting events of the year, the Rio Games, and spoke about the impact the UK's medal-winning Olympians and Paralympians, and Commonwealth athletes, were having on the next generation of sportsmen and women.\nAt this point during the message footage was shown of the Buckingham Palace reception held in honour of ParalympicsGB and Team GB medal winners, with the Duke of Cambridge pictured greeting Paralympic swimmer Ellie Simmonds.\nThe Queen made reference to her 90th birthday celebrations only to praise the hundreds of charities and organisations which have her as their patron. Many of them had taken part in a special street party in The Mall - the Patron's Lunch - to mark the anniversary.\nThe head of state, who recorded her Christmas message in Buckingham Palace's regency room earlier this month, said: "Many of these organisations are modest in size but inspire me with the work they do.\n"From giving friendship and support to our veterans, the elderly or the bereaved; to championing music and dance; providing animal welfare; or protecting our fields and forests, their selfless devotion and generosity of spirit is an example to us all."\n(Photo: PA)\nFootage was shown of the revellers enjoying the Patron's Lunch, parades entertaining the crowds and the Queen watching events from the royal box.\nThe Queen also highlighted the work of organisations associated with members of her family, like the medical staff and crew members from East Anglian Air Ambulance with whom her grandson William flies helicopters.\nIn her message she said: "A few months ago, I saw inspiration of a different kind when I opened the new Cambridge base of the East Anglian Air Ambulance, where Prince William works as a helicopter pilot.\n"It was not hard to be moved by the dedication of the highly-skilled doctors, paramedics and crew, who are called out on average five times a day."\nAs she spoke, footage was shown of her visit, with the Duke of Edinburgh, to the new base, with William showing his grandparents the rear of a helicopter where equipment was stored.\nThe Duke of Edinburgh's Award scheme and The Prince's Trust celebrated significant milestones this year, with Philip's organisation now 60 years old and the Trust, founded by his son the Prince of Wales, marking its 40th birthday in 2016.\nDressed in a deep jade, silk cloque dress, by Angela Kelly, and wearing a pearl and diamond brooch, the Queen said: "These started as small initiatives but have grown beyond any expectations, and continue to transform young people's lives."\n(Photo: BBC)\nThe Christmas address, written by the Queen, ended on a religious note, as she said: "The message of Christmas reminds us that inspiration is a gift to be given as well as received, and that love begins small but always grows."\nAt the end of the broadcast a montage of video footage showing highlights from the Queen's year was screened, with the Queen seen at the State Opening of Parliament, the annual Maundy service, and with her family on the Buckingham Palace balcony after the Trooping the Colour ceremony.\nThe Queen was featured meeting well-wishers on her 90th birthday - April 21 - outside Windsor Castle and chatting to Nadiya Hussain, last year's winner of the BBC's The Great British Bake Off, who had made a three-tiered orange drizzle cake.\nThe message ended as it had begun, with music from the Massed Bands of the Foot Guards.\nThey started the broadcast by playing the national anthem outside the gates of Buckingham Palace and ended it with the Wassail from A Christmas Intrada, by Alfred Reed.}}
{{The FAA is now under a federal court order to review the sizes of seats and legroom on commercial airlines.\nThe FAA is now under a federal court order to review the sizes of seats and legroom on commercial airlines.\nThousands of people were evacuated from an outdoor music festival in Barcelona, Spain Saturday after a fire broke out on the stage.\nThousands of people were evacuated from an outdoor music festival in Barcelona, Spain Saturday after a fire broke out on the stage.\nThe National Insurance Crime Bureau recently released its annual list of the most stolen vehicles. Overall nationwide, the report finds that in 2016, the 1997 Honda Accord was the most stolen car.}}
{{Montclair violinist Amy Beshara plays for commuters at the Mountain Avenue railroad station in partnership with the NJ Transit's Music in Motion Program for Make Music Day last year. (Photo: Adam Anik/NorthJersey.com file photo)\nWednesday, June 21, in Montclair is being dedicated to music - and those who provide it.\nThe township's fourth annual Make Music Day will occur at various venues and times throughout town. The free day of music, inspired by similar events across the U.S., is celebrated in more than 725 cities internationally, according to the Montclair Make Music Day website.\nMore than 30 Montclair locations, including many small businesses, will host musicians and performers. Make Music Day is partnering with NJ Transit to entertain commuters at the Upper Montclair Train Station from 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., and a ukulele parade and play-along will travel from Watchung Park to Watchung Plaza at 11 a.m.\nAround town: Montclair Public Library Foundation receives several grants\nEducation: MSU scholarship created in honor of Montclair music educator\nEntertainment: Three districts come together for Haledon music festival\nThe recently formed Montclair Orchestra will also perform at two locations - Local Coffee shop at 12 p.m. and DollyMoo/MishMish at 5 p.m.\nOutpost in the Burbs and First Congregational Church are teaming up to host a variety of local acts in the evening and will raffle off a pair of tickets to the Rockland-Bergen Music Festival.\nA full schedule is available at montclairmakesmusic.org.\nRead or Share this story: https://njersy.co/2tpAurX}}
{{House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) accompanies President Trump as he arrives at a meeting with House Republicans at the U.S. Capitol June 19, 2018 in Washington.\nAlex Wong, Getty Images\nAmid a national outcry over family separations among immigrants at the southern border, House Speaker Paul Ryan says the House will vote on a comprehensive immigration bill Thursday to address the emotional issue, but a solution appears to be hard to reach in the short term.\nThe proposed fix would keep families together, under the custody of the Department of Homeland Security, when they are being prosecuted for illegally crossing the border.\n"We can enforce immigration laws without breaking families apart," Ryan, R-Wisc., said Wednesday. He said it was a "false choice" to suggest a need to pick between enforcing border security and keeping families together.\nThe measure to end the separation of migrant families would be part of a bill addressing broader immigration issues, including funding President Donald Trump’s border wall and protecting young immigrant “DREAMers,” who have been living in the U.S. illegally since childhood, from deportation.\nSenate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., tells reporters that Republicans are rallying behind a plan that would allow detained families to stay together while expediting their deportation proceedings. during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington June 19, 2018.\nJ. Scott Applewhite, AP\nAlthough Ryan says Trump supports the measure, it was unclear whether it could pass, and a more conservative bill seems even less likely to garner enough votes to pass.\nMore: Why are immigrant children being separated from parents? All your questions answered\nMore: 'He's all I have left': Immigrants crossing into US unaware, stunned by family separations\nMore: Fact check: What's really going on with immigrant children being detained at the border?\nOn the Senate side, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., told reporters after a closed-door Senate GOP lunch Tuesday: “We’ve got a problem, we need to fix it. And we’re going to work on that.”\nRepublicans are rallying behind narrow legislation proposed by Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, that would allow detained families to stay together in custody while expediting their hearings and possible deportation proceedings. McConnell says he is reaching out to Democrats for bipartisan backing.\nWith few legislative solutions in sight, opposition ranged from formal statements by politicians and public groups to vocal protesters confronting the head of the Department of Homeland Security at an upscale Washington, D.C., Mexican restaurant.\nTrump: 'I am working on something.'\nAs prospects for a solution in Congress look grim, President Trump wrote on Twitter that he is “working on something” related to immigration following his night meeting with House Republicans. The president is again placing blame on Democrats, charging “they won’t give us the votes needed to pass good immigration legislation.” The president’s party, the Republicans, control both chambers in Congress. “Republicans want security," he tweets. "But I am working on something - it never ends!”\nBabies, young children sent to 'tender age' shelter\nBabies and other young children forcibly separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border are being sent to at least three “tender age” shelters in South Texas, according to The Associated Press. Lawyers and medical providers who have visited the Rio Grande Valley shelters described playrooms of crying preschool-age children in crisis. The shelters follow strict procedures surrounding who can gain access to the children in order to protect their safety, but that means information about their welfare can be limited. The three centers – in Combes, Raymondville and Brownsville – have been rapidly repurposed to serve needs of children including some under 5 years old. A fourth, planned for Houston, would house up to 240 children in a warehouse previously used for people displaced by Hurricane Harvey, Mayor Sylvester Turner said.\nAmerican Medical Association: End the policy promptly\nThe largest U.S. doctors’ group, the American Medical Association, is urging the Trump administration to end the family separation policy on the border as quickly as possible. The AMA’s chief executive officer, James Madara, writes in a letter made public Wednesday that families seeking refuge in the U.S. “already endure emotional and physical stress” and that separation only makes it worse. Madara says it is well known that childhood trauma and adverse childhood experiences created by inhumane treatment often create negative health impacts that can last a lifetime. Madara sent the letter Tuesday to Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar and Attorney General Jeff Sessions. It follows a new policy AMA adopted at its annual meeting last week in Chicago.\n13 GOP senators call for pause in separation policy\nAt least 13 Republican senators have signed a letter drafted by Sen. Orrin Hatch, the longest-serving Senate Republican, asking Homeland to pause the criminal prosecutions while lawmakers finish a proposal on the issue. “The way it's being handled right now isn't acceptable," Hatch said. While 13 have signed on, other Republicans made it clear they do not support any suspension of the prosecutions. Sen. John Kennedy, a Louisiana Republican, says people coming into the country illegally should be prosecuted, but children should be allowed to stay with them in detention facilities.\n5 Latin American human rights agencies weigh in\nHuman rights agencies in five Latin American nations are urging the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to push the United States to implement precautionary measures for avoiding the separation of migrant children from their families. The petition asks the commission to demand Washington take any actions necessary to protect family rights and personal integrity. It calls the separations “dangerous” and “inhumane.” It is signed by the governmental rights agencies of Colombia, Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras and Mexico.\nEx-immigration chief: Some kids separated permanently\nThe former head of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement tells NBC News that migrant parents separated from their children at the border are sometimes unable to relocate their child and remain permanently separated. John Sandweg, who was acting director of ICE under the Obama administration from 2013-2014, says of permanent separation: "It happens." His warning contradicts White House statements that the separation of women and children migrants under the Trump administration's "zero tolerance" policy is only temporary. While a parent can quickly move from detention to deportation, a child's case for asylum or deportation may not be heard by a judge for several years because deporting a child is a lower priority for the courts, Sandweg explains.\nProtesters confront DHS head at Mexican restaurant\nKirstjen Nielsen, secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, was confronted Tuesday evening by chanting protesters at an upscale Mexican restaurant where she was having dinner. "How can you enjoy a Mexican dinner as you're deporting and imprisoning tens of thousands of people who come here seeking asylum in the United States?" protester Jesse Rabinowitz shouts in a video posted on Facebook appearing to show the incident. According to the video, Nielsen appears not to acknowledge the intrusion at the glitzy MXDC Cocina Mexicana restaurant by the members of the D.C. chapter of the Democratic Socialists of America.\nPope backs U.S. bishops' condemnation of border policy\nPope Francis says he supports the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops' condemnation of the separations as against Catholic values. “It’s not easy, but populism is not the solution,” Francis tells Reuters in an exclusive interview published Wednesday. The publication of the pope’s comments came on World Refugee Day. “Let it be clear that in these things, I respect (the position of) the bishops conference,” Frances said in the interview. The pontiff also tweeted on the topic, saying: “A person's dignity does not depend on them being a citizen, a migrant, or a refugee. Saving the life of someone fleeing war and poverty is an act of humanity."\nCopyright 2017 USATODAY.com}}
{{A senior school is to appeal to an exam board after every single one of its ICT students was handed a ‘U’ in their GCSEs.\nDozens of pupils at Harlington Upper School are believed to have received a fail grade as examiners felt they’d been given too much help with their coursework.\nAccording to a letter sent out to parents, the exam board, OCR, decided it cannot accept the work submitted following a moderation process.\nA mum of one of the students affected, who asked not to be named, said: “I came with my daughter to pick up her exam results and the school handed out this letter to all parents.\n“It said every single student had failed ICT because something wasn’t right with their coursework.\n“I’m absolutely furious, it’s an important grade. All of that hard work gone to waste.\n“I think people need to know what is going on.”\nHeadteacher Shawn Fell said they were treating the results as “a very serious matter”, and said they would be appealing the decision.\nIn the letter, he wrote said:”Overall, we are very pleased with our exam results this year and I have attached a press release for our exam results.\n“We are still looking into the ICT Cambridge National Certificate results, which has arisen from the usual moderation process.\n“I have explained this to students and parents.”\n“I am treating this as a very serious matter and am aware it is not of the candidates’ doing.\n“OCR has an appeals process and I am currently carrying out an investigation to establish if it is possible for this decision to be reviewed.\n“In the meantime, I recognise that you may be relying on this qualification to support your progression into Sixth Form or college.\n“Please be assured that we will take this decision into account for entry into our Sixth Form.\n“I wish to apologise for the ICT Cambridge National Certificate results not being available today.”\nOverall, 75 per cent of students gained five or more GCSEs at Grade C.\nA total of 64 per cent of students gained this benchmark including English and mathematics.\nHigh grades were common with 24 students gaining eight or more A*-A grades.\nMr Fell added: “The GCSE results at Harlington are overall very good again this year.\n“Our students have gained superb results and are now ready for the next stage of their education.\n“Students should be congratulated on their achievements, following all their hard work.\nHarlington Upper School is a successful 13-19 school and Academy with 1400 students, including over 400 in the sixth form.}}
{{(MENAFN - #Jordan Times) AMMAN — University students will be able to evaluate presidents of their universities through student councils, according to aHigher #Education Council (HEC) decision issuedon Thursday.\nThe council has recently endorsed a system for evaluating presidents of public universities in a bid to improve performance, enhance competitiveness and boost accountability.\nThe move was also designed toincrease the ranking of Jordanian universities in international indexes.\nThe same specialised committee, which the HEC has entrusted to draft evaluation formstogather the views of instructors and administrators, will carry out personal interviews withstudent representatives,Higher #Education Minister Adel Tweisi said on Thursday.\nInterviews will be held with presidents of student councils and two board members of the council in each public university, he explained to The #Jordan Times.\nAll student council members are elected through regular ross-university elections.\nAfter the committee of experts draft the evaluation forms, the HEC will send them tothe boards of trustees of all universities to complete within a three-week period and then to return them to the HEC.\nCurrently, an independent committee of experts is looking into the submitted forms tovalidate the information in order to write a report on each university president, the minister noted.\nThe HEC will then look into the reports and take the necessary measures, which fall across a spectrum, from exemption from service at one end, torecognition notes on the other.\nMeanwhile, the HEC on Thursday endorsed a set of regulations for the establishment of dentistry faculties at private universities, a decision described as a "turning point".\nThe council noted that dentistry faculties were previously exclusive to public universities.\nMENAFN3007201700280000ID1095670522}}
{{Get daily updates directly to your inbox\n+ Subscribe\nThank you for subscribing!\nCould not subscribe, try again later\nInvalid Email}}
{{The video will start in 8 Cancel\nGet daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nEarly benefit payments before Christmas and the coolest office in Reading were the biggest stories in the penultimate week of 2017.\nPeople checked in to see when government tax credits, universal credit, pensions and child benefits would be paid, with disruption to the usual payment schedule because of Christmas Dy, Boxing Day and New Years Eve.\nTech and engineering recruitment company Roc Search celebrated moving into new offices in The White Building in Reading town centre.\nElsewhere in the news, getreading spoke to the English family, who are facing a bleak Christmas on a boat after leaving their home in Whitley after a dispute with the landlord.\nParents may be exasperated to learn that another nursery in Reading has been closed due to "resourcing issues."\nAnd a two vehicle crash in Tidmarsh Road in Theale caused long road hold ups and three people to be injured.\nSo, here are our top five most read stories this week:\n(Image: Getty Images)\nThis article informed readers that government tax credits, universal credit, pensions and child benefits payments would all be received on Friday, December 22.\nIt gave those receiving those benefits a boost to their incomes just before Christmas.\nThe payments came in early because of the bank holidays being held on because of Christmas Dy, Boxing Day and New Years Eve.\nVideo Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now\nReading could be home to one of the coolest offices in the UK.\nThat's certainly what Roc Search thinks of its new offices in The White Building, in Kings Road, Reading.\nConor Roughneen, founder and managing director at Roc Search said: "I wanted to create a space which celebrates the amazing culture we've cultivated over the years here at Roc Search.\n"It had to really reflect the values of the organisation by being a place our employees could not only work but also socialise and have fun.\n""It’s exactly how I’d envisioned it. The feedback from the entire company has been unbelievable and has made all the hard-work worthwhile."\nThe office sports a pool table, recliners and some excellent graffiti art.\nReading family reveal struggle of escaping homelessness as they face Christmas on freezing boat\nVideo Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now\nOur reporter Hugh Fort spoke to Christine English and Jack McIntyre, two members of the English family, who face Christmas living on a freezing boat in the River Thames .\nThey left their house in protest when their landlord apparently demanded they pay more money on top of rent to fund repairs to the house, which Mrs English believes should have been covered by their rental agreement.\nThe family have appealed to Reading Borough Council , yet the authority’s rules state that because they intentionally left the home in Whitley, it cannot help them in providing a home.\n(Image: Google Images)\nThis was the news that the Bubbles@Caversham Nursery in Northbrook Road would be permanently closed, announced in a letter to parents on Friday, December 23.\nThe closure puts pressure on working families, who will have to find alternative nurseries for their children or take time off work.\nGraham Underwood, director of Greyfriar Nursery Ltd, which runs the nursery, said: "We regret the distress and anxiety that this will cause to parents and their children, but are working with Reading Borough Council to do everything possible to find places for children affected by the closures."\nThree people injured in Theale crash\n(Image: Google Maps)\nThree people had to be treated for injuries after a crash on the A340 Tidmarsh Road.\nThe incident occurred oat 4.30pm on Tuesday, December 19.\nOne woman was cut from the Toyota Rav4 she was travelling in during the incident.\nShe was then taken to the Royal Berkshire Hospital by the South Central Ambulance Service .\ngetreading ran a live blog to let people know what was happening.\nThames Valley Police are now appealing for witnesses to get to the bottom of what happened.}}
{{Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nProud parents are celebrating the arrival of Scotland's Christmas babies .\nAmong the first was a girl In Aberdeen as Lisa Urquhart gave birth to daughter Ailie who was born at 12:08am on Christmas Day.\nA boy soon followed at Aberdeen Maternity Hospital as Natalia Streeter welcomed her son Logan into the world at 1:15am.\nThe first Christmas delivery in Edinburgh came at the Royal Infirmary at 12.55am.\nThe baby, named Noel, was born to Samantha Skinner, 27, and weighed 7lb 8oz.\n(Photo: Newsline Media)\nThe first baby to be born on Christmas Day at St John's Hospital in Livingston arrived at 4.50am.\nThe baby girl, yet to be named, was born to Amy, 24, and Jamie McGororty, 30, from Whitburn, West Lothian, and weighed 7lb 7oz.\nIn Glasgow at the Queen Elizabeth University Hospital Shannon McManus, from Renfrew, gave birth to a baby boy.\nJunior was born at 1.56am and weighed 8lb 2oz.\nShortly after at the city's Princess Royal Maternity Hospital Maria Owens, 26, from Glasgow, welcomed Oscar to the world.\nThe newborn weighed 8lb 3oz when he arrived at 4.12am.}}
{{The bells of York Minster fell silent on Christmas Day for the first time in over 600 years following the controversial break-up of their bell-ringing team.\nVisitors and worshippers at the world-famous cathedral had been warned to expect a silent Christmas after the move in October which saw the Minster’s Chapter disband its 30-strong ringing group due to safeguarding concerns.\nThe York Minster bells fell silent for the first time in over 600 years for the York Minster Solemn Eucharist of Christmas Day service. Pic: James Hardisty.\nThe Dean of York Minster Vivienne Faull and the Archbishop of York Dr John Sentamu, who supported the decision, were both in attendance at the service.\nYork Minster’s governing body became involved in a dispute with its former bellringers earlier this year, which culminated in the team being disbanded in October.\nThe Chapter of York Minster had defended its decision to disband its bellringers earlier this week, saying the controversial move was made due to safeguarding concerns surrounding one of the team.\nA detailed statement issued by the Chapter explained how it disbanded the team after the ringers refused to accept its decision not to reinstate one of its members.\nThe York Minster bells fell silent for the first time in over 600 years for the York Minster Solemn Eucharist of Christmas Day service. Pic: James Hardisty.\nThe ringer had been suspended following a police investigation into allegations of sex offending against children which did not lead to a prosecution.\nAnd the Chapter also suggested efforts to find temporary stand-ins to ensure the bells ring out over Christmas were being thwarted by “intimidation”.\nIt said many of the people who had offered to help were subjected to intimidation on social media and in the local press, including a member of the clergy who was threatened with legal action.}}
{{Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video\nThe Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video\nFar from your usual first dance, this couple decided to celebrate their marriage by playing a duet - and it's just brilliant!\nFreelance musicians Richard and Megan Jones wanted to do something a bit different for their wedding.\nSo they decided to surprise their guests by playing their own 'Celtic' version of Chaka Khan's 'Ain't Nobody' - with Richard on the violin and Megan on the flute.\nAnd the pair managed to get the whole wedding reception on their feet - with some of the staff even stopping by to take a look.\nRichard and Megan Jones wanted to do something a bit different for their wedding\nOriginally from Cardiff but now living in London, jazz violinist Richard, 28, said: "We knew we wanted to do something a bit different for our first dance.\n"No one knew about it except for the band, who I told about 10 minutes before outside the marquee!\n"All of the musicians are really good friends of ours, which made the whole thing even more special!\n"I wrote the jigg a couple of months before the wedding and we both love the song 'Ain't Nobody', so I made it work over that song and we did a bit of a merger!\n"It had a Celtic feel - the wedding was in Cornwall which is where Megan is from and obviously being from Wales we both have the Celtic link.\n"I also wrote the music that Megan walked down the aisle to and that have a bit of a Celtic feel as well.\n"The whole thing was a surprise for everyone which was what we wanted and it created a real party and excited atmosphere which led perfectly into the dancing."}}
{{President Donald Trump said on Wednesday he would sign an executive order reversing his decision to separate migrant families crossing the US border with Mexico, following global outcry.\n“We want to keep families together,” Trump said at the White House. “We are signing an executive order in a little while,” he added, noting that he hoped it would happen in parallel with legislation passed by Congress.\nTrump said he faced a dilemma between what he considered weak border enforcement policies that allowed too many undocumented immigrants into the country. But he said stricter border enforcement stirred accusations that “you don’t have any heart”, then added “perhaps I’d rather be strong”.\nThe US House of Representatives was due to consider a bill on the issue Thursday, but two people familiar with the thinking of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said that she had drafted the executive action because she had little faith that Congress would succeed in passing a bill ending the practice.\nNielsen had discussed the document with the president’s team at the White House according to one of the people. Both spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the effort before its official announcement.\nThe person said the order will ask the Department of Defence to help house the detained families. Homeland Security officials did not immediately respond to requests for comment.\nTrump had tweeted earlier Wednesday that he was “working on something”, adding “It’s the Democrats fault, they won’t give us the votes needed to pass good immigration legislation. They want open borders, which breeds horrible crime. Republicans want security. But I am working on something – it never ends!” he wrote.\nThe decision to divide families, and to prosecute asylum seekers as criminals, was made solely by the Trump administration and has led to a massive outcry both within and outside the US.\nThe latest voices added to the chorus of disapproval were Pope Francis and UK Prime Minister Theresa May, who spoke out against the action on Wednesday.\nThe Pope said that he stood with US bishops who had denounced the action as “immoral”, and denounced anti-immigrant action in both the US and Europe, saying that “I believe that you cannot reject people who arrive.”\n“Some governments are working on it, and people have to be settled in the best possible way, but creating psychosis is not the cure,” he said. “Populism does not resolve things. What resolves things is acceptance, study, prudence.”\nAnd May said on Wednesday that images of children in cages were “deeply disturbing. This is wrong. This is not something that we agree with.”\nOpposition lawmakers rebuked May for not criticising the Trump administration in stronger terms, or for cancelling Trump’s visit to the UK, where he will meet Queen Elizabeth on July 13.\nEarlier on Wednesday, Paul Ryan, the top Republican in the US Congress, announced that a vote would be held on Thursday on a bill to stop dividing up families.\n“We do not want children taken away from their parents. We can enforce our immigration laws without breaking families apart. The administration says it wants Congress to act and we are,” Ryan said. “Tomorrow the House will vote on legislation to keep families together.”\nRyan said the proposed legislation also resolves “in a very elegant way” the status of the so-called “Dreamers”, undocumented immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children, whose protections were ended by Trump earlier in the year, although a court has ordered a stay on that motion. No details were immediately provided on the Dreamer aspect of the bill.\nThe White House has previously come under fire from Democrats for using the children as a “bargaining chip” in negotiations over immigration.}}
{{OTTAWA — The U.S. policy of separating child migrants from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border and detaining them, is "unacceptable," Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said today.\n"What's going on in the United States is wrong, " Trudeau told reporters.\n"I can't imagine what the families who are living through this are enduring," he added, saying this "is not the way we do things in Canada."\nTrudeau has been called upon to condemn the Trump administration's "zero-tolerance policy," under which asylum seekers who cross illegally into the U.S. are charged with federal crimes and separated from their children, who are detained in guarded, fenced enclosures.\nOn Wednesday, the Canadian Council for Refugees joined others, including NDP immigration critic Jenny Kwan, in urging the federal government to suspend the Safe Third Country Agreement. The council says the U.S. cannot be considered a safe country for refugees in light of the "disturbing" events at the U.S. border.\nThe government says it is monitoring the changes in U.S. immigration policy and what effects they will have on asylum seekers in the United States.\nThe Canada Border Services Agency does detain some immigrants to Canada who are considered a flight risk or a danger to the public, and those whose identities cannot be confirmed. Canadian policy on child migrants allows detained parents to keep their children with them in holding centres if other alternatives cannot be found.\nConcerns have been raised in the past over the number of migrant children detained every year by Canadian border officials. Last year, 162 minors were detained or housed with their parents in holding centres.\nThat number has been going down, Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale said earlier this week. Last November, he issued a directive to the Canada Border Services Agency to keep children out of detention and keep families together "as much as humanly possible."\n-Follow @ReporterTeresa on Twitter.}}
{{Undocumented students face an uncertain future in Donald Trump’s America. Fusion explores the obstacles that young DREAMers face on college campuses. The Naked Truth: Undocumented on Campus tells the story through the experience of a first-year undocumented student from Mexico, studying in Kansas.\nJose Reza came to the U.S. with his mother with high hopes and dreams of getting an education. His first year of college is made all the harder as he tries to focus on his studies in a climate where undocumented immigrants are demonized and face increased risk of being deported.}}
{{Get Daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nIf you're looking to track down Father Christmas' whereabouts this Christmas Eve then you're in luck.\nEach year NORAD (North American Aerospace Defense Command) launches its interactive tool to look for Santa on the most exciting night of the year.\nIt help kids and adults follow Father Christmas around the world on December 24.\nThere are also plenty of interactive elements to the festive site, including games and facts all about Santa's sleigh, his route and the reindeer that will be helping him.\nTraditionally NORAD is responsible for defending airspace, but for the last sixty years has embraced a tradition of following the bearded sky wizard around the world.\n(Image: NORAD)\nSanta - or Father Christmas to us Brits - will travel an estimated 510,000,000 kilometers over the course of one night - moving at a speed of 10,703,437.5km/hr.\nThat works out at roughly 1,800 miles per second, and some very tired reindeer.\nVolunteers are also on the phone lines at a call centre, taking around 70,000 phone from children in 200 countries asking where Santa is.\nBut sorry - the agency says it won't reveal how it manages to locate Santa Claus\nYou can also email or call the NORAD team too!\nThe website lists the email address as: noradtrackssanta@outlook.com\nIt also says you can phone the call centre on 00-1-719-556-5211.\nA staff member will reply and provide details of Santa's last known location - and also encourage your children to get to bed.\nHow many houses does Father Christmas visit?\nAccording to the tracker, Santa will call in on 390,000 homes every minute during his Christmas Eve rush.\nIf he stops to scoff down a mince pie at each one, he will have consumed around 71,764,000,000 in the course of one night.\nHow did the tradition start?\nNORAD began tracking Santa when a 1955 advert encouraged children to phone Santa - but gave the wrong number.\nWhen he realised what had happened, Colonel Harry Shoup - who came to be known as the “Santa Colonel” - quickly told his staff to answer the calls with an update on Father Christmas's current position.\nIt developed into a tradition where volunteers staff call centres on Christmas Eve and take around 70,000 phone calls each year from 200 countries.\nHowever the tracker has adapted with the times, becoming more advanced through the years.\nAnd now it is available online in 3D each year alongside its own Twitter, Facebook and YouTube accounts.\nWriting to fans on Facebook, NORAD said: "Thank you for letting us be part of the magic Santa.\n"We can't wait to track you again this year and help the believers around the world follow your journey."}}
{{Interested in Rome, Georgia?\nEnter your email to be alerted about news, happenings and money saving coupons from Rome businesses}}
{{The state higher education department on Tuesday said that it would not implement any fee hike in government colleges for the upcoming 2020-21 academic session, keeping in mind the financial distress caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.\nUsually, universities across the state increase their fees by 10-15% every year, said officials. However, according to officials, increasing the fees this year could have adverse implications for the gross enrolment ratio of the state with many students being discouraged from taking admission.\nIn a letter shared with all government colleges on Tuesday, the department said that this year too, the fee structure for the 2018-19 session will continue to prevail. This is the second year in a row that the higher education department has not hiked fees for colleges in the state. Earlier, in November 2019, the department was forced to roll back fee hike for the 2019-2020 session after protests by students.\nThe department said that this year, the Covid-19 pandemic had caused major disruptions in the lives of people across the globe. It has created new challenges and put extreme economic pressure on people. This necessitated that fee structure is kept unchanged, keeping in mind the shifting ground realities.\nSP Sukhija, joint director-2, department of higher education, said that the department had taken the decision of not increasing college fees this year keeping in mind the interests of the students. “We have been receiving many representations and requests from people expressing their inability to pay an increased fee since their source of income has dried up. Routinely, universities increase their fees by 10-15% every year. If we were to go by the usual precedent, fee this year would have shot up. We, however, took a compassionate view so that students don’t have to suffer and pay an increased fee,” said Sukhija.\nHe added that hiking the fee could have discouraged students from weaker economic sections of the society from taking admission. “If the fee is hiked and the students are not in a position to take admission, then this would adversely affect the enrolment ration in the state. We don’t want our students to be deprived of education due to higher fees,” said Sukhija.\nThe decision to keep the fee structure unchanged this year had earlier been discussed in a meeting with all principals that took place last Sunday. Pooja Khullar, principal of the Dronacharya Government College, said that the decision had been taken keeping in mind the various constraints that people are facing due to the pandemic. “There will be no enhancement of fees this year. The department has decided to continue with the old fee structure so that students are not dissuaded from taking admission,” said Khullar.\nSatyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9, said that the department had increased the fee last year but it had been rolled back after protests by students. This year, however, the department had decided against increasing the fee in view of the hardships faced by people because of the Covid-19 pandemic.\nThe department of higher education is expected to initiate the online admission process for undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the coming days. Nodal admission officers have already been appointed in various colleges across the state to facilitate the process.}}
{{The world premiere of Iberian Songs by Music from Angel Fire Composer-in-Residence Gabriela Lena Frank and performed by the GRAMMY-nominated soprano Tony Arnold will be presented 7 p.m. today (Wednesday, Aug. 24) at the Angel Fire Community Center. The concert titled, “World Premier: Across the Ocean and Back,” will also include works by Debussy and Shumann.\nThere is nothing more exciting than bringing a new piece to life, and having the work peformed by internationally-acclaimed Tony Arnold is beyond spectacular! Her command of the human voice and has inspired many contemporary composers, and G.L. Frank is no exception.\nMeet the Composer at 1 p.m.\nPrior to the concert, at 1 pm on Aug. 24, “Closer Encounters: Meet the Composer” will take place at the Angel Fire Community Center. This free event allows the audience to get to know the musicians and music being performed in an open rehearsal. Hear Composer-in-Residence, Gabriela Lena Frank discuss her newly-written piece in a fun and informal setting.\nThe $35 tickets for the 7 p.m. concert can be purchased by visiting the festival office at 3465 Mountain View Blvd, by calling the Box Office at 575.377.3233 or 888.377.3300, or through Hold My Ticket. Festival information, concert programming and dates can be found at musicfromangelfire.org.\nAbout Music From Angel Fire\nMusic from Angel Fire is responsible for the birth of over 40 new works in its 32-year history including works by Composers-in-Residence Lowell Leibermann, Steven Stucky, Marc Neikrug and Roberto Sierra. This past year, Music from Angel Fire was honored by Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center for their extraordinary commissioning tradition. In February, OPUS ONE performed four of the past commissions at a performance in New York City in the Kaplan Penthouse at Lincoln Center.\nSince 1984, the Music from Angel Fire Summer Festival has presented world-class concerts and educational events throughout northern New Mexico. Internationally renowned violinist Ida Kavafian, Artistic Director since 1985, invites the country’s finest musicians, students and composers to perform during the three weeks of the festival. Music from Angel Fire annually reaches 6,000 attendees and performances are heard year-round on national radio stations and online through American Public Media’s “Performance Today.” Elizabeth Harcombe is the organization’s Executive Director.}}
{{CLOSE U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson accused the Trump administration of a cover-up after officials denied him entry Tuesday to a detention center for migrant children in South Florida where he had hoped to survey living conditions. (June 19) AP\nBuy Photo Comprehensive Health Services Inc.'s Cape Canaveral headquarters (Photo: MALCOLM DENEMARK/FLORIDA TODAY)Buy Photo\nThe Homestead facility housing some 1,000 migrant children is run by a Cape Canaveral company.\nComprehensive Health Services Inc. was contracted by the Department of Health and Human Services in February to re-open the Homestead Temporary Shelter for Unaccompanied Children as 500-bed facility to serve as a emergency shelter for immigrant children, according to federal contracting information.\nLast month the contract was amended to expand the facility to 1,000 beds. So far the federal government has paid the company $31 million.\nThe company directed inquiries about the facility to HHS.\nSen. Bill Nelson and Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, both Florida Democrats, were turned away from the facility when they attempted to tour it Tuesday.\nNelson accused the Trump administration of a "cover-up" after officials denied him entry to the detention center where he had hoped to survey living conditions.\nWasserman Schultz said the facility was being used for an estimated 1,000 children, aged 13 to 17 — most of whom arrived here as unaccompanied minors and about 10 percent of them as children separated from their families at the border. She said two other facilities in South Florida were being used for younger children.\n"It is an affront as the senior senator of this state that an agency head would tell me that I do not have entrance into a federally funded facility where the lives and health of children are at stake," Nelson said.\nThe state gave the company $600,000 in incentives to Comprehensive Health Services to expand its Cape Canaveral headquarters in 2016.\n"I am proud to announce that Comprehensive Health Services Inc. has chosen Florida over Virginia for their expansion, which will create 150 new jobs," Scott said in a statement at the time. "I look forward to seeing CHSi's growth in Florida, and we will continue to do all we can to cut taxes and reduce burdensome regulations so more businesses can succeed in our state."\nBrevard County also kicked in property-tax breaks worth up to $19,000 a year for ten years as part of the effort to lure the company to expand on the Space Coast rather than in suburban Virginia.\n"Our aggressive economic development strategy delivers advantages similar to those in the Washington, D.C., area, including Reston, Virginia," Lynda Weatherman, the Economic Development Commission of Florida's Space Coast's president and chief executive officer, said when the expansion was announced.\nIn February 2017, CHS agreed to pay $3.9 million to settle claims that it had overbilled the federal government.\nThe company was contracted to provide certain medical services to the Internal Revenue Service. The company said the overbilling was accidental.\n"We cooperated fully upon learning of the allegations. Our own review identified an accidental overbilling issue stemming from a mistake made when the IRS contract was originally set up in 2009," the company's CEO Gary Palmer said of the settlement.\nComprehensive Health Services had been previously contracted under the Obama administration to operate the facility under a "shelter care for unaccompanied children" program. It closed sometime last year.\nIt reopened this year under a different HHS program as an "emergency shelter."\nThis is a developing story. Check back for updates.\nContact McCarthy at 321-752-5018 or jmccarthy@floridatoday.com.\nRead or Share this story: https://on.flatoday.com/2K82ifz}}
{{Renea: "Because the first thing to comes to mind is that I'm Black, but they can't say that because it's racist. So they don't say anything, then they ask me if I'm sure I want to make a country record. It's not a question of whether this is country music. It's a question of whether people want to accept me because there aren't a lot of people who look like me doing it. Especially females, there just aren't any. I don't think it's because there aren't brown girls singing twangy songs, I think it's because in the South the spaces where this music is performed aren't safe for us. You might get looked at funny, called names, and made to feel uncomfortable. Some of those people are toting Confederate flags still. But when you're making the music and it relates to people, it can transcend race. My musical ability and talent gives me privilege. People are nicer to me when they find out that I do music and what songs I've written. If I'm gonna have that privilege, then I'm gonna talk about the issues affecting my community and put them in front of an audience that would never listen to it otherwise."}}
{{People who wrote to Santa as children still have fond memories of it as adults (Picture: Getty)\nNot feeling Christmassy yet?\nWell this ought to do it: when children in Canada write Father Christmas a letter, Father Christmas writes back.\nCanada Post’s Santa Letter Writing Service has been running for more than 35 years.\nEveryone thinks Cara Delevingne's new Jimmy Choo ad is sexist - do you?\nTo date, more than 26million letters have been answered in over 30 different languages – including Braille – and letters have come from all around the world.\nThe service processes an average of a million letters a year and roughly 200,000 elves (err, OK, volunteers from the Canadian postal service) donate their time to write or type replies on behalf of the Great Man himself.\nInstead of the grey sacks used for day-to-day mail, all the Christmas letters are sorted into bright red sacks of the very kind Santa himself uses.\nWhat’s more, the service is absolutely free.\n“Letters to Santa do not require postage within Canada and the response from Santa is delivered free,” says Sylvie Lapointe of Canada post.\nThere are just three requirements, says Lapointe.\nFirstly, all letters must be sent before 14 December.\nSanta is a busy man in December and needs plenty of time to get writing.\nSecondly, letters must be sent to the correct address: Santa Claus, North Pole, H0H 0H0, Canada.\nThe postcode is particularly important: it was specially commissioned for the Santa post and letters won’t reach the North Pole without it.\nFinally, while lists are fine, Father Christmas enjoys proper letters.\nChildren are encouraged to write about their likes and dislikes, what they have been up to and what they would like for Christmas, and are free to include illustrations.\nApparently, Mrs Claus is particularly partial to stickers.\nSanta Claus is coming to town\nCanada Post’s Santa Letter Writing Service started as a local initiative in Montreal in 1974 before going nationwide in 1982.\nJust 22,000 letters were answered over the first two years with the help of 1,000 volunteer elves.\nBy 1984 the number of letters had increased to half a million and 5,000 volunteers were drafted in to help.\nToday, in addition to the letters, 43,000 children get an email response – and not all little ones have the patience to wait for Christmas.\nLetters start trickling in from July and parades, decorations in shops and the first snowfall all trigger an outpouring of Christmas wishes.\nAll I want for Christmas\nRequests have noticeably changed with the times.\nBasic playthings like crayons and balls are rare but toys like cars and Barbies remain popular.\nUnsurprisingly, there has been an upswing in pleas for electronic devices and gadgets and some children think big: requests for pet ponies are not uncommon.\nThough most of the letters deal with deliverables, not all children want something to unwrap.\n‘Dear Santa, How are Mrs Claus, the reindeer and the elves?’ (Picture: Getty)\nVolunteers read requests for divorced parents to be reunited for Christmas, or for hard-up friends to be able to enjoy the festive season more.\nOccasionally, the elves receive letters from children in need who have turned to Santa for reassurance.\nIn these cases, a specialist team of trained experts is on hand to help Santa provide the appropriate response.\nJoy to the world\nIt’s not just the kids of Canada who have a direct line to Father Christmas.\nIn Australia, children can download a letter-writing template then track the progress of their letter as it wings its way to the North Pole.\nIn New Zealand, children can download and decorate their own postcard via an interactive website.\nHere in the UK, Christmas missives can be sent off to Father Christmas at Santa’s Grotto, Reindeerland, XM4 5HQ.\nBut Canada’s Santa post remains one of the longest running and the most comprehensive, and still brings back happy memories for the grown ups that used it.\nThe most popular questions kids ask Santa in their letters 1. You must be really old. How old are you?\n2. How are Mrs Claus, the reindeer and the elves?\n3. What is your favourite cookie? Do you eat cookies at every meal? Do you eat any vegetables?\n4. Do the elves go to school?\n5. How do you get around the world in one night?\n6. How will you get into my house, we don’t have a chimney?\n7. Why do you wear red all the time?\n8. How many elves do you have?\n9. Do you walk to work or take the sleigh?\nDana Campbell remembers writing to Santa to ‘politely request items’.\n‘My letters to Santa always began with “Dear Santa” and included questions for him like: How is Mrs Claus? How are the reindeer and what do you feed them? How many elves do you have working in the shop?’ she says.\n‘Once the small talk was out of the way, I tell Santa that I, of course, had been a good girl all year and give him some examples of the good deeds I had done.\n‘Then I would politely ask him for a few items. I remember my wish lists containing mostly toys.\n‘At the end of the letter, I would let Santa know that we were so excited for his arrival, and to be sure that we would have milk and cookies for him, and carrots for the reindeer on Christmas Eve.\n‘I can remember being so excited about sending off my letter but as I got older I became quite a sceptical child.\n‘I questioned everything that didn’t make sense to me: why do the Santas in the mall look so different from each other? Why are they wearing fake beards?\n‘It didn’t take long for me to lose interest in contacting Santa.\n‘I asked my brother if my niece still writes to him, and he told me that she has been doing it through a website in recent years.\n‘I think it totally takes the excitement of sending snail mail away.’\nAs for Santa’s replies? Well, you might want to look away for this bit.\n‘Santa did reply, though I don’t remember what the replies said,’ says Dana, adding:\n‘I asked my cousin if his children write to Santa, and if the replies were generic or specific.\n‘He told me the replies were pretty generic and that they were typed up, with each child’s name written in.’\nStill, the tradition for writing to Santa doesn’t seem to be going away any time soon.\nMORE: New Orleans jazz funerals: Where life is celebrated through the joy of music\nMORE: When is the best time to say I love you? Why oversharing too soon is a bad idea\nMORE: BFF or no BFF: Is there too much pressure to have a best friend?}}
{{President Donald Trump says on Twitter he is “working on something” related to immigration following his Tuesday night meeting with House Republicans.\nTrump is again placing blame on Democrats, asserting that “they won’t give us the votes needed to pass good immigration legislation.” The president’s party, the Republicans, control both chambers in Congress.\nHe writes, “Republicans want security. But I am working on something – it never ends!”\nRepublican leaders in the House are trying to put together an immigration bill that would keep immigrant children in detention indefinitely, but housed with their parents.\nAbout two dozen immigrant children joined Democratic lawmakers on the House floor as the lawmakers decry the separation of families at the border.\nRep. Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas says the detaining of children separately from parents who have crossed the border illegally is child abuse. She says “please, please let our children go to their families.”\nThe criticism follows Democratic lawmakers confronting President Donald Trump when he visited the Capitol the day before, yelling “stop separating our families!”\nBut Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., says he is heartened by the debate because he is seeing Americans “standing up for children, standing up for those who are in need.”\nAs Gutierrez spoke, his microphone was cut off because lawmakers and children gathered around him as he spoke. That was considered a breach of decorum.}}
{{Actually, it’s what they did last night, and on all but one of the nights of this disastrous five-game road trip, that has raised calls for his ouster to a deafening level. There was the early surge that netted nil. There was the obligatory opponents’ first goal. There was the lack of response, another goal, then another, a tepid power play before Scott Laughton broke through with a great individual effort against a Vancouver defense that entered the game with more goals allowed than the Flyers – albeit in four more games.}}
{{Sorry, we're having problems with our video player at the moment, but are working to fix it as soon as we can\nPupils at South Shields Community School have been praised for their hardwork as overall grades improve.\nHeadteacher Allie Denholm was at the school in Nevinson Avenue, South Shields, today, to greet students as they arrived nervously to pick up their GCSE results.\nStudents arrive at South Shields Community School to collect their GCSE results.\nSome came with their parents while others were accompanied by friends to find out their exam fate.\nThere were tears of relief and joy as envelopes were opened and students realised they had achieved the grades they needed to further their education or move onto the next stage of their life.\nPraising pupils on their exam success, Mrs Denholm said: "There has been improvement across the board in regards to progress.\n"We have seen improvements and achievements in English which is a really key area for us.\nEthan Alexander and Emily Coates are pleased with their results\n"The performance of students who historically struggled have improved considerably - pupils with special needs like dysexia, low ability students and girls their performance has all improved. We have had some real stand out perforamces from certain students.\n"I'm really pleased with the progress. We have improved considerably from last year. On average our children are doing better."\nOne of the students who achieved top marks at South Shields Community School was Ethan Collinson with five A*s and five As.\nThe teenager who one day wants to work with medicine said: "I felt pretty good going for my results. I had worked hard so I wasn't too nervous.\nLily Arnold was shocked at the results she had achieved\n"I have been studying quite a lot. I'm happy with my results as they are what I wanted.\n"O'm just relieved they are all over as I don't have them hanging over me anymore."\nLily Arnold wasn't as sure about her results being unable to sleep the night before. She achieved one A*, three As, three Bs and one C.\nThe 16-year-old from Whiteleas said: "I only got about an hour's sleep the night before as I was worrying so much. I didn't want to go into theb schooll I was just goign to stay at home and let them post them out to me, but all my friends were going so I went.\nExam success pupil Ethan Collinson is proud of his results\n"All the teachers were there telling me to open the envelope and they were smiling so I thought I must have done something right. When I opened them the results were better than I expected them to be. I was just shocked, I was expecting Cs and Ds.\n"I came back and told my nana and she was really happy and then phoned my mam at work and she said she was going to cry. I just feel so relieved now it's all over."\nCallum Tooth was also one of the school's top achievers gaining three A*s, four As and two Bs.\nOther students who also done well include Ethan Alexander, 16, who achieved two Ds, four Fs and two Es in his results despite missing school for five months due to an illness.\nHe said: "I've been off school for quite a while due to being ill and I also took ill during one of my exams so one of them is an estimated grade so to pass them all, it's great. I'm hoping to work in animal care and I've already got a place at Kirkley Hall."\nFellow student Emily Coates, 16, said: "I'm quite happy with my results."\nCallum Tooth celebrates achieving top exam results\nEmily achieved one A, two Bs, two Cs, two Ds and one E. She added: "It was really stressful the night before but now I'm so relieved.\n"I'm hoping to do sports coaching at Sunderland College."\nHave you got something to share on the story? Were you there? What do you think? - Send your pictures, videos or story and we'll publish the best × Continue the story GCSE results: Headteacher praises South Shields Community School pupils as results improve across the board Loading ... Add up to 3 photos or 1 videos to the story There's been a problem uploading your files. Please try again. By uploading your file you agree to our Terms and Conditions × Continue the story Sign in to contribute sign in shape the news in your area...}}
{{A Facebook friend of mine — a Bangalore-based gentleman called Vijay Grover — recently posted a status update to say: “Till two days back, 90% of Karnataka did not know advocate Vittala and 90% of India did not know Ramya... then came ‘sedition’ case and rest is news.”\nI mean, how true! I had no idea about the existence of a Kannada actress called Ramya — 33 years old, real name Divya Spandana — who is now into politics and belongs to the Congress party. And, of course, there was no question of my being familiar with a lawyer called Vittala Gowda, living in Kodagu in Karnataka. Then something happened that made both of them national news.\nEarlier this month, Ramya visited Islamabad for a meeting of young parliamentarians from the SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation) nations. On her return, she told reporters, “Pakistan is not hell; people there are just like us. They treated us very well.” She thought it was important to mention that it was not like hell because Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar had recently said that going to Pakistan was like going to hell. The lawyer knew this was his moment — he could imagine himself being surrounded by TV cameras, a dozen reporters thrusting their mikes on his face — and so went to the court and filed a case of sedition against the actress-turned-politician. He accused her of “insulting” India and “provoking” its people by praising Pakistan, the “traditional enemy of India”.\nThings turned out exactly the way Gowda wanted them to. For the rest of his life, he will be known as the lawyer who took Ramya to court for saying a few nice words about Pakistan. Who knows, he may float a political outfit next — depending on the outcome of the case, which will be heard in a few hours from the time you finish reading this piece.\nThis incident confirms the suspicion I’ve been nurturing lately: that we have become a nation of jobless people that is spending most of its time either in front of the TV or scrolling down newsfeeds on the phone. It no longer matters who has done what: what matters now is who has said what. As a result, real issues — corruption, cronyism, Government apathy, public apathy, to name a few — get swept under the carpet.\nI wish we spent half that time reading — perhaps reading history. History alone can put your existence in your country (or any other country) in perspective, and therefore make you more humble and tolerant and — most important — open-minded.\nThe lack of knowledge of history is evident. I have come across countless Indians who are convinced that Mahatma Gandhi was responsible for the Partition — as if they were around when the events were unfolding. The truth is that Gandhi had almost no say in the matters of the Congress party during the months leading to Partition.\nI have also come across people who consider Jinnah to be the architect of the Partition, and while that is true, it is also true that for the longest time, Jinnah did not want the Partition. The term ‘Pakistan’ was actually coined in 1933 by a Punjabi Muslim studying in Cambridge at the time: P for Punjab, A for Afghanistan, K for Kashmir, S for Sindh, and stan from Baluchistan. When he and his friends presented the name to Jinnah, he was livid. But the same Jinnah, by 1940s, was demanding a separate state of Pakistan. Why so? Well, you got to read history.\nAnd if saying ‘Pakistan is not hell’ amounts to sedition, then we should all be in jail for singing and listening to Saare jahaan se achchha, Hindostan hamara, India’s best-known patriotic song, for it was composed by the poet-turned-politician Muhammad Iqbal who, in 1930, became the very first man to demand a separate province for Muslims in India. Do we ban the song?}}
{{Students across South Tyneside are celebrating after notching up another impressive set of GCSE results.\nA total of 66% of students in the borough secured five A* to C passes – maintaining the standard from last year.\nThe number of students picking up five or more GCSEs including English and maths remained steady at almost 59% – a 0.8% rise on last year’s figure.\nCoun Joan Atkinson, lead member for children, young people and families, said: “This is an excellent set of results for which our young people are to be commended.\n“We recognise that much of this success is due to the support of their families and carers, not to mention our excellent teaching and support staff.”\nAmong the many success stories was Mortimer Community College which saw the number of students picking up five GCSEs soar from 53% last year to 61% this year.\nJarrow School also saw a five% rise in the number of students receiving five GCSEs at grade A* to C.\nMeanwhile Harton Technology College saw the number of students securing GCSES in both maths and English jump from 61% last year to 66% this year.\nCoun Atkinson added: “Providing our young people with an all-round excellent education remains a core priority for the council.\n“However, we are not complacent and will continue to make every effort to make sure, going forward, all our young people receive the best possible education.”\nFor those students whose results are better or worse than expected, the council’s Services for Young People is organising some drop-in sessions at Ocean Road Community Association tomorrow and next Tuesday and Wednesday between 1pm and 5pm.\nFor more information, visit the Services for Young People in South Tyneside Facebook page or ring 0191 424 7400.\nGCSE results for South Tyneside schools in 2016:\n* Boldon\n% English and Maths GCSEs (A* - C) - 61%\n% 5+ A*- C (inc Eng & Maths) - 57%\n* Harton Technology College\n% English and Maths GCSEs (A* - C) - 66%\n% 5+ A*- C (inc Eng & Maths) - 64%\n* Hebburn Comprehensive\n% English and Maths GCSEs (A* - C) - 64%\n% 5+ A*- C (inc Eng & Maths) - 62%\n* Jarrow School\n% English and Maths GCSEs (A* - C) - 54%\n% 5+ A*- C (inc Eng & Maths) - 50%\n* Mortimer Community College\n% English and Maths GCSEs (A* - C) - 65%\n% 5+ A*- C (inc Eng & Maths) - 58%\n* South Shields Community School\n% English and Maths GCSEs (A* - C) - 38%\n% 5+ A*- C (inc Eng & Maths) - 35%\n* St Joseph’s Catholic Academy\n% English and Maths GCSEs (A* - C) - 55%\n% 5+ A*- C (inc Eng & Maths) - 55%\n* St Wilfrid’s RC College\n% English and Maths GCSEs (A* - C) - 75%\n% 5+ A*- C (inc Eng & Maths) - 75%\n* Whitburn CE Academy\n% English and Maths GCSEs (A* - C) - 86%\n% 5+ A*- C (inc Eng & Maths) - 85%}}
{{"We have specialized facilities that are devoted to providing care to children with special needs and tender age children, as we define as under 13 would fall into that category," he said. "They're not government facilities per se, and they have very well-trained clinicians, and those facilities meet state licensing standards for child welfare agencies, and they're staffed by people who know how to deal with the needs — particularly of the younger children."}}
{{Sorry, we're having problems with our video player at the moment, but are working to fix it as soon as we can\nAn emphasis on core GCSE subjects has paid off at Spalding Grammar School where nearly 80 per cent of students achieved either an A* or A in Science.\nThe roll call of success on Thursday was led by 12 Year 11 students who collected ten or more grades of A* and A.\nSpalding Grammar School Year 11 students celebrate their GCSE results. Photo by Michael Fysh. ANL-160825-135009009\nIn fact, nearly 40 per cent of passes were with the top two grades ahead of a change to the GCSE marking system next year when grades will be in number (9 down to 1), rather than letter (A* to G) form.\nLeading the school’s “Magnificent 12” was James Smith (16), of Gosberton, with ten A*s and four A’s which mean he can study Maths, Further Maths, Physics and Chemistry at the school’s sixth form.\nJames said: “I wasn’t so much nervous as just wanting to get the results, but I’m not sure how I’ll celebrate them.\n“Our science department is very strong and the teachers, who are very experienced, are very supportive.\nI’m very pleased with my grades after what was a very tense time waiting for the results, especially on Thursday morning when we were on the way to school Nihaal Aziz, Year 11, Spalding Grammar School\n“I want to have a career in something to do with science but I’m not sure what yet.”\nNihaal Aziz (16), of Peterborough, out did his older brother and former Spalding High School head boy Kamil, collecting seven A*s, five A’s and one B.\nBig brother and father were with Nihaal when the teenager said: “I’m very pleased with my grades after what was a very tense time waiting for the results, especially on Thursday morning when we were on the way to school.\n“I’m staying on at Spalding Grammar School to study Maths, Biology, Chemistry and Economics in the sixth form and I’ve had some thoughts about a career, perhaps in medicine.”\nKamil said: “I’m very proud of my younger brother and he’s done better than me.”\nHeadmaster Steven Wilkinson said: “Spalding Grammar School has seen some strong performances at GCSE this year and there has been some improvements in some of the areas where we were looking for improvements.\n“I am particularly pleased that in English Language, which has been a focus this year, we have seen a huge increase of approximately ten per cent in the number of students making, or exceeding, the Government’s expected levels of progress.”}}
{{Just a couple of months after a deadly school bus crash in Chattanooga, lawmakers in Tennessee are moving to improve school bus safety.\nSchool bus drivers are trusted with the lives of children during the school year. So when tragedies happen, it sparks calls for change.\nState Representative Courtney Rogers, R-Goodlettsville, wants tougher guidelines for those who get behind the wheel. She recently introduced a bill that focuses on preventing people with serious traffic violation from becoming bus drivers. Those violations include excessive speeding, reckless driving and accidents resulting in injury or death.\n"You see it all the time, crashes everywhere or speeding. I can name a few individuals myself that are still behind the wheel of a car who've had many speeding tickets," said Adam Buchanan of Maryville.\nBus drivers have to meet a number of standards before they can take children to and from school.\n"They have to be 21 years of age, and they have to have five years of unrestricted driving license in order to become a bus driver," said Megan Buell, the spokesperson for the Tennessee Department of Safety and Homeland Security.\nThe Department of Safety and Homeland Security issues those special licenses. Buell said potential drivers must also pass knowledge and skills testing. But gaps remain.\n"As far as hours of training, there are no set hours of training for bus drivers," Buell said.\nThe current law prevents someone from driving a school bus while under investigation for crimes. But Rogers wants the state to focus on a person's driving history within the last three years.\n"That would be one of the first things I would hope would be on the list of questions," said Amy Gibson of Nashville.\nIn November, Johnthony Walker crashed a school bus in Chattanooga, killing six elementary school children. Police said Walker was speeding at the time, and parents had complained of his driving to the school district.\nUltimately, it's up to the employer to check their drivers.\n"That company that the bus driver would contract with is responsible for looking at their driver's history and making sure they're compliant with the law," Buell said.\nRep. Joanne Favors, D-Chattanooga, told Channel 4 she plans to introduce a bill next month calling for seat belts on future school buses.\nCopyright 2017 WSMV (Meredith Corporation). All rights reserved.}}
{{Officials at a public high school in Kingsport, which had the highest public school ACT score in a three-county area except a laboratory school at East Tennessee State University, was expecting an ACT score about .5 higher than the one ACT gave and is paying for detailed data to determine how the numbers are met. The school reported a drop in its ACT composite score while Tennessee reported it as an increase.\nAnd a public school system in Bristol saw a .2 decrease in its score, which apparently did not factor in a separate online school in last year’s numbers.\nSuch are the trials and travails of the latest ACT scores, which are designed to reflect college and career readiness and went public nationwide Wednesday after a 3 a.m. embargo. Tennessee as a whole held steady with an average composite of 19.9 and an an average public school composite of 19.4, despite more students taking the test in the Volunteer State. Nationwide, the average composite was 20.8\n“It’s difficult to determine if we in fact had an increase or decrease,” said Rebecca Craddock, who oversees communications and coordinated school health for Bristol, Tenn., schools. ACT data indicated 291 students districtwide got a 21.1 compared to 216 in 2015 getting a 21.3. The Tennessee Online Public School went from 24 students getting a 20.7 in 2015 to 50 getting a 21.6 in 2016, while Tennessee High went from 216 getting a 21.3 in 2015 to 241 getting 21.0 in 2016.\n“If you will notice, the 2015 reports show we tested 216 students in the entire district,” she said. “However, 216 is the number Tennessee High School tested. For some reason, the state report does not include the 24 tested from Tennessee Online Public School. We aren’t sure why or how that may have impacted the overall 2015 district results had those TOPS students been included, thus it makes it difficult to compare the two years.”\nSuch also could be the case with Dobyns-Bennett High School. Last year, D-B EXCEL, the Kingsport system’s virtual and online program, was counted as a separate school with a separate ACT composite. However, for the class of 2016 they were combined. D-B Principal Chris Hampton said D-B went from a 22.5 in 2015 to a 22.4 in 2016, but the state Department of Education indicated an increase from 22.2 to 22.4.\nHampton told the city Board of Education at a Tuesday night work session that D-B officials had calculated the score as being about .5 higher. For the first time he said the school is paying to get detailed data so it will know how the 22.4 was calculated. He also said some of the students who took the test graduated in 2016 but were supposed to be in the class of 2017, when ACT will count those scores. All high school graduates in Tennessee starting with the class of 2018 must take the ACT or they cannot graduate, Hampton said, except for students excused because of an individualized education program or IEP.\nMeanwhile, at Providence Academy in Johnson City, a private religious school, college and career counselor Larissa Ferguson had the two phantom ACT students. She Wednesday said she suspects the two students were somehow identified as part of the school’s class of 2016. In the past, she said students have been counted with different classes because they mistakenly reported it that way or identified with the wrong school because they transferred after taking the test. Hampton said the same issues may be at work at D-B since ACT relies on students to report their class and school.\nD-B with a 22.4 had the highest Tri-Cities average of any regular public school in Sullivan, Hawkins and Washington counties, but the percentage of test takers scoring college ready in all four subject areas was 33 percent, compared to 37 percent for Science Hill High and 58 percent for University School. D-B tested 410 students, while University School tested 73. University is technically part of Washington County’s system but operated by ETSU, stayed constant at 25.2 to have the highest non-private score in the region. It has a limited enrollment, requiring students enter a lottery to be considered for admittance, and gives first priority to employees of University School. The private Providence, with a 27.3, down from 27.5 in 2015, was the only private school queried that responded to a request for its ACT composite. Tri-Cities Christian School in Blountville and Cedar View Christian School in Kingsport did not respond.\nSullivan County Director of Schools Evelyn Rafalowski said the county’s composite score for 2016 was 20.3, up from 19.9 last year. Sullivan Central increased from 19.3 to 19.7, East from 18.8 to to 19.5, North from 20.8 to 20.9 and South from 21.3 to 21.7. Hawkins County Director of Schools Steve Starnes said the Hawkins composite increased from 19.3 to 20.1, with Cherokee going from 19.3 to 20.6, Clinch from 19 to 20.4 and Volunteer from 19.3 to 19.7. Cherokee and Clinch posted the largest gains of available scores in the region.\nJohnson City Director of Instruction and Communications Debra Bentley said Johnson City’s and Science Hill’s composite, which are one in the same, went from 21.8 to 22.2. Washington County had a composite of 20.4, up from 19.7, while Boone had a 20.1, up fro 20.0, and Crockett held steady at a 19.6. University School’s scores are included in the Washington County composite.}}
{{CLOSE At least five people were killed and several others hurt Sunday as an SUV carrying more than a dozen people during a suspected “smuggling event” crashed while fleeing from Border Patrol agents in South Texas, authorities said. Time\nThis frame grab from video provided by KABB/WOAI-TV in San Antonio shows the scene where authorities say at least five people are dead and several others hurt as an SUV carrying more than a dozen people crashed, Sunday, June 17, 2018, in Big Wells, Texas, while fleeing from Border Patrol agents. (Photo: Provided by KABB/WOAI via AP)\nDEL RIO, Texas — Federal authorities in Del Rio charged five people, including 20–year-old Jorge Luis Monsivais, Jr. of Eagle Pass, in an alleged smuggling scheme that resulted in the deaths of five undocumented immigrants Sunday, according to a media release from United States Attorney John F. Bash.\nA federal complaint charges the defendants with transporting undocumented immigrants and conspiracy to transport and harbor undocumented immigrants resulting in serious bodily injury and death. Upon conviction, the U.S. Department of Justice said these offenses are punishable by life imprisonment or death, a $250,000 fine and five years of supervised release.\nAs KENS 5 reported, U.S. Border Patrol agents started immigration inspections on three vehicles Sunday. This reportedly included a 2013 Tahoe, a 2007 Suburban, and a 2008 Tahoe traveling in a convoy on FM 2644 between El Indio, Texas and Carrizo Springs.\nMore: 5 killed in police pursuit crash in Texas involving undocumented immigrants\nMore: ICE raid: 146 undocumented immigrants in Ohio arrested at meat-packing plants\nAccording to the criminal complaint, the 2013 Tahoe yielded while the other two led Border Patrol agents and Dimmit County Sheriff’s deputies on high speed chases. While traveling eastbound on Highway 85, Monsivais, the driver of the 2007 Suburban, crashed as he entered the town of Big Wells, Texas.\nAccording to the complaint, Monsivais is accused of traveling with 13 suspected undocumented immigrants, including one juvenile, at the time of the crash.\nFour of them died at the scene. Nine were transported to an area hospital for medical care. One died on the way to the hospital. One was released to the custody of the U.S. Border Patrol after receiving medical attention. Seven remain hospitalized, including the juvenile.\nThe criminal complaint also alleges that the driver of the 2008 Tahoe evaded law enforcement before eventually stopping. Several people absconded from the vehicle, according to the complaint. U.S. Border Patrol agents detained the driver, a 17-year-old, and captured 10 suspected undocumented immigrants in the area.\nMore: Agents raid Texas 'stash house' and find 62 undocumented immigrants, says border patrol\nMore: ICE arresting more non-criminal undocumented immigrants\nIn addition to Monsivais, the criminal complaint charges the driver of the 2013 Tahoe, 55-year-old Mexican citizen Marcial Gomez Santana, and occupants, 45-year-old Mexican citizen Mariela Reyna, Marcial’s son, 21-year-old Rudy Gomez of Hockley, Texas and Marcial’s daughter, 19-year-old Johana Gomez of Houston as conspirators in the alleged smuggling venture.\nAll five charged in the federal criminal complaint remain in custody, according to the Justice Department.\nOf the 23 undocumented immigrants involved in the reported scheme, 21 are Mexican nationals and two are Honduran nationals. The U.S. Attorney's Office said 6 of the 23 are being held on federal complaints as material witnesses. No other federal charges have reportedly been filed.\nThe juvenile driver is in the custody of Dimmit County authorities.\nRead or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2MGbR3W}}
{{Dreading the back to school shop and want to save some extra pennies on the kids' school essentials ?\nHelp is at hand as high street chain Debenhams launch 20% discount across their school uniform collection .\nThe flash sale includes shirts, blouses, jumpers and shoes, with ranges available for children up to the age of 16.\nDebenhams also have a wide range of lunch boxes , stationery and school bags so you can get everything you need in one big shop.\nIf you're looking for more deals to kit your kids out for less ahead of the new school year, we've rounded up the best school uniform offers in this guide .\nHow much is delivery?\nWhen you spend £30 or more before 4 September and opt for click and collect delivery , you'll get a free £5 voucher. You can check full details of the deal here .\nAlternatively, standard UK delivery costs £3.99, or is free when you spend £30 or more.}}
{{NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) — Actress and U.N. refugee agency special envoy Angelina Jolie on Tuesday denounced the impunity with which rape is committed in conflict zones and the mistreatment of vulnerable women and children.\nJolie spoke in Kenya to mark World Refugee Day. She visited a training center on how to prevent sexual violence in conflict and met with refugees from conflicts in Burundi, South Sudan, Somalia and Congo.\n“The reality is that women and girls as well as boys and men can still be raped with near-total impunity in conflict zones around the world, and there are still appalling cases of rape and mistreatment of vulnerable women, children and men by peacekeepers sent to protect them,” she said.\nJolie added: “The horror of sexual violence is compounded when it is carried out by someone in uniform who has a taken an oath to protect.”\nThe way people treat refugees, the majority of who are women and children, is a measure of humanity, she said, according to a statement by the U.N. refugee agency.\n“Not only have they had to flee extreme violence or persecution, lost everything and witnessed the death of family members, but they have also had to face so much abuse and intolerance and hardship. They are doing their best to carry on with minimal support, trying to live lives of dignity against impossible odds,” Jolie said.\nKenya is home to nearly 491,000 refugees from conflicts in neighboring countries. A Kenyan court recently stopped the government from closing what had been the world’s largest refugee camp, Dadaab, and sending more than 200,000 people back to Somalia. The court said the government had not proved Somalia is safe for refugees to return.}}
{{Image caption Schools will be closed for four days\nAll schools and nurseries in East Dunbartonshire will be closed for four days because of strike action by council workers.\nMembers of three unions are taking part in the action, which is expected to cause widespread disruption on 21, 22, 25 and 26 June.\nThe dispute is over planned changes to workers' terms and conditions.\nLeisure centres, libraries, museums and community hubs will also close during the action, the council said.\nTeachers are not involved in the strike, which is being held by members of the GMB, Unite and Unison unions.\nEven though teachers are not taking part in the strike, the council said it would need to close schools for health and safety reasons.\nA statement from East Dunbartonshire Council said: "In an effort to avoid strike action the council made a further offer to the trades unions this morning to allow further time for negotiation on the areas being identified as of most concern.\n"To enable those further negotiations the strike would need to be suspended.\n"Regrettably the trades unions declined this further offer and their strike action will go ahead as planned on Thursday 21, Friday 22, Monday 25 and Tuesday 26 June."\nUnions notified the council of the strike action on 12 June. The four-day strike will be followed from 2 July with a "work to rule" action.\nSimon Macfarlane, regional organiser for Unison, said: "Having voted by 93% margin to take strike action, Unison is implementing our members' decision to stand up to the devastating cuts they are facing.\n"Our members don't want to take strike action but they have been left with no choice."}}
{{It can be implied from this question, that the person asking this one perceives the typical private school student as arrogant, and out of touch with realities. Unfortunately, this backfires and says more about the questioner than those who attend private schools. The simple answer is, no they don’t! To begin with, the question is based on a sweeping generalisation, which is obvious.\nLet me begin by talking about my experience attending a private school. I spent three years in a private school in Bristol, for boys. Apart from it being one of the best experiences of my life, I can say with certainty that fellow students were among the most empathetic students I’d ever met. If you believe leftism defines empathy, then even according to that logic, there were many lefties among students and teachers alike. The community there was nicely close-knit; politeness was more than just a defining culture.\nOn the other hand, my brother didn’t qualify the entry exams for the school and had to attend a comprehensive school nearby which had much fewer students from wealthy backgrounds. From the stories he told me, I noticed an interesting pattern. Students at private schools always wore simple, unbranded and sometimes shabby clothing during non-uniform days for charity. Whatever they wore, it was a genuine reflection of who they were. There was no showing-off of any kind. But in my brother’s school, the story was different. My brother remembers the day his school held the second non-uniform day of the year. He came back from school telling how he was mocked as “poor” because his clothes apparently weren’t up to the mark. He must’ve not been wearing the top brand, or must’ve just worn the same pair of jeans as if they were really meant to notice it from the previous time. He often talked about how what you’d wear would eventually define you and your image among your class. I was surprised, to say the least. It’s interesting to see how a capitalist society can have differential impacts on children of different class backgrounds, but I can’t give definitive answers right now. Regardless, it does show that seeing people that are different to you in some way (culture, class or religion), from “your” viewpoint, can be misleading.\nApart from that, I still remember how a student in my class was close to tears after our Physics teacher decided to show us pictures of the aftermath of the Japanese Earthquake in 2011, and the disaster it created in the Fukushima nuclear power station. I can come up with many examples, of which their existence alone dispels any assumption that “all” private school students lack empathy. The key thing to remember is that every school has a mix of pupils. That’s true, with class even, in private schools too, as more and more students from financially poor backgrounds were being admitted under scholarship and bursary schemes. I had met a friend, who had unfortunately lost his father from cancer, and his single mother unable to pay the fees: he was among those to benefit from a subsidised place.\nMy favourite politicians, Tony Benn and Clement Attlee, were both children of wealthy families yet are remembered to among the most socially just politicians. Countless examples show that it’s important to see beyond trivial matters like empathy in students and the like. Questions that ask why parents send children to private schools in the first place, or why even low-income parents send their children to fee-paying schools (through bursaries and scholarships), are more worthy of consideration. This suggests that our state-run education system could be failing to meet the needs of a fast-changing world, making the private option more attractive. Answering these questions could give us invaluable knowledge into addressing real problems in society (and education), rather than addressing some alleged lack of “empathy” among private school students.}}
{{We’re now in the final days to finish our holiday shopping. Many of us are trying to find the lowest price on gadgets, jewelry or gifts for someone special.\nBut if you can wait until after the holidays, you can score a much better deal on many things, and we are not just talking about post-Christmas sales.\nDeal News.com says if it’s not a gift, and you can wait, you will get a much better price on a number of items.\nAmong the things to wait another week to buy, according to a new report in DealNews:\n1. Cars\nThe best deals are the year-end sales between Christmas and New Year’s, DealNews says. (Plus you won’t have to pay for a big red bow.)\n2. 4KTVs\nThe best name-brand big screen TV sales are around the Super Bowl each year. Unlike Black Friday, these are not cheap, stripped down TVs built especially for hoards of shoppers.\n3. Other Electronics\nDealNews says tablets, printers and headsets go on sale during the Consumer Electronics Show in January. It says stores slash prices on unsold video games in the days after Christmas, with some XBox One and PS4 games likely to be sold for 60 percent off.\n4. Sports And Fitness Equipment\nJust after New Year’s Day, people are joining gyms like crazy, so stores get more competitive with big sales on home gyms, treadmills and other workout items.\n5. Furniture\nJanuary has some of the biggest furniture sales of the year, with the exception of President’s Day and Memorial Day weekends.\n6. Jewelry\nThis tends to be expensive in January and early February, but if you can wait until Feb. 15, prices are slashed after Valentine’s Day.\n7. Luggage\nThe biggest sales are in March, after most people have bought new luggage for their spring break trip or March cruise.\n8. Clothing\nThis is a no-brainer. The week after Christmas sees clothing markdowns as high as 75 percent or 80 percent off. Winter clothing goes on sale now, as stores make way for spring and beach fashion.\n9. Fingerlings\nDon’t laugh. These little monkey puppets kids wear on their fingers became the hottest holiday toy of 2017, surprising everyone, especially the manufacturer, which couldn’t keep up with demand (Hatchimals were supposed to be the hot toy again, but their second year was a flop.)\nDealNews says skip the ridiculous Fingerling markups right now, and give your 10-year-old a rain check. It says prices on eBay (as high as $100 for the $14 toy) will plunge after New Year’s Day, and stores will start to have them in stock again.\nBonus: Christmas Items\nWe didn’t mention Christmas decorations and wrapping paper for next year, because those are obvious. Grab it up on Dec. 26.\nThat way you don’t waste your money.}}
{{"We made it clear that we cannot have any trust and conversation unless we address the Dream Act passed," Pelosi reported at her news conference. But the protestors weren't swayed, demanding that Pelosi work to protect "all 11 million" people in this country without documents.\n"This group today is saying don't do the DREAM Act unless you do comprehensive immigration reform. Well we all want to do comprehensive immigration reform. ... I understand their frustration — I'm excited by it as a matter of fact — but the fact is, they're completely wrong, " she said as quoted by the San Francisco Chronicle.}}
{{The woman who sustained serious injuries when her car was in collision with a lorry on the B2139 at Houghton Hill, Houghton, near Amberley, last month, has died in hospital.\nShe has been named as 77-year-old Mary Sherlock, of Fern Road, Storrington. Mrs Sherlock served as treasurer of the village hall and ran a ballet school in the village for many years.\nShe also helped at St Philip’s Catholic Primary School in Arundel.\nMrs Sherlock was driving her Toyota Avensis west when it was in collision with an eastbound articulated lorry near the George and Dragon pub, just after 3.20pm on Monday, July 18.\nShe was flown by the air ambulance to Southampton General Hospital where she remained in critical condition, and sadly died in the early hours of Friday, August 19.\nThe lorry driver, a 69-year-old man from Liss, Hampshire, was not injured.\nThe road was closed for five hours for investigations and for the HGV to be removed.\nMary’s husband, Steven Sherlock, said; “Mary was a respected member of the Storrington community.\n“She was active in organising the music and liturgy at the local Catholic church playing both the piano and organ.”\n“She is very much missed by our family and many friends.”\nAnyone who saw what happened is asked to contact police by emailing collision.appeal@sussex.pnn.police.uk or calling 101, quoting Operation Sedgebrook.}}
{{1:14 Bob Herring talks about how he fell in love with old time music\n0:49 Old Time Learning Jam is an open door for musicians\n7:12 UNC students react to Berger's claim that Democrats outnumber Republicans 12:1 in faculty positions\n0:28 UPS workers, NAACP rally for a better workplace, fair treatment\n1:52 Cedar Ridge head coach Scott Loosemore on his team's 60-0 season opening win\n2:50 Three and out with Northwood head coach Brian Harrington\n2:36 Moser plans to retire as Orange head coach\n1:44 3-and-out with East Chapel Hill coach Ryan Johnson\n3:04 3-and-out with Cedar Ridge football coach Scott Loosemore}}
{{Several Vermont communities are voting Tuesday on whether to merge their schools.\nIt's part of an effort to secure certain types of state money for the districts under Act 46.\nMontpelier voters are deciding whether to merge with Roxbury.\nAnd voters in Cabot, Twinfield and Danville school districts are deciding whether to merge into one district.}}
{{Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nSix British ex-soldiers will spend Christmas Day in a “hell hole” Indian jail after their hopes of coming home were dashed again.\nThe six, who a British lawyer says are victims of a miscarriage of justice, hoped their appeal in court last month would allow them to be reunited with their loved ones back home for the first time in four years.\nBut the tortuous legal system in India has meant any decision on their bid for freedom is now not expected until the new year.\nAnd if they fail to quash their convictions, they face four more years behind bars after being jailed last January on weapons charges while working as security guards on ships to combat piracy in the Indian Ocean.\nJoanne Thomlinson, from Wigton, Cumbria, whose brother John Armstrong, 29, an ex-Paratroop Regiment soldier, is one of the six jailed, said it would “mean the absolute world” to get her brother home.\nMrs Thomlinson said: “The whole thing is an absolute tragedy.\n“It is incredible to think what impact this has had on so many lives. So many parents, children, brothers and sisters, wives - just completely lost while their loved one suffers in prison.\n“Christmas and birthdays, you would normally be with your family. These days are a bit harder for John and the others to get through.”\nIndian coastguards first boarded their vessel, the MV Seaman Guard Ohio, and arrested them for bringing weapons into India’s territorial waters in October 2013.\nThe charges were initially quashed when the men argued the weapons were lawfully held for anti-piracy purposes and their paperwork, issued by the UK Government, was in order.\nBut a lower court reinstated the prosecution and they were convicted in January this year and sentenced to five years in jail.\nThe latest appeal was heard in November but no decision has been released yet by the Indian judges hearing the case.\nIt means another grim Christmas behind bars at Puzhal Prison, home to 3,000 inmates including murderers and rapists, at the vast complex in Chennai, the Indian city formerly known as Madras.\nAll the “Chennai Six” are being held in “horrendous”’ conditions, the families say, sleeping on a concrete floor, in often sweltering heat with inadequate water, prison meals of “curried slop and rice” and poor sanitation, with toilets being a hole in the floor.\nThe smell “just hits you” on entering the prison, say relatives who have visited to take supplies including teabags, sweets and toilet paper. None of the men are allowed telephone calls home.\nAlso jailed is Paul Towers, 53, originally from Bootle, Merseyside, who spent 12 years in the Parachute Regiment before working for 20 years as a prison officer.\nHis wife, Ann Towers, is a former Army nurse and who now works in a prison and their son, Jordan, is also serving in the British Army infantry.\nMrs Towers, from York, said between them, they had given more than 70 years of public service and feel let down.\n“I’m really quite bitter about the fact that we are in this situation, three years after it started, and this is their fourth Christmas in that country,” she said.\n“That prison is a hell hole. We have led lives with integrity. We have never done anything wrong. We have paid taxes, we have worked since leaving school, we have served. This is just abhorrent.\n“It’s such a time of family Christmas. And then not to be together, because we are a close family, it’s horrendous.”\nMrs Towers said the fact that Theresa May has raised the matter on a recent visit to India and Britain’s High Commissioner in India has visited the men in jail “speaks volumes” and shows they are not guilty men convicted abroad who simply want to come home.\n“I truly believe they know these men are innocent,” Mrs Towers said. “We have just got to hope and pray what’s gone on behind closed doors is going to do something, have some effect.\n“Until we get this decision through, we are in limbo, this horrendous torture.”\nNick Dunn case: Devastated family will continue to fight for Ashington man's freedom\nYvonne MacHugh, from Glasgow, is the fiancee of Billy Irving, 37, another ex-Paratrooper from Campbeltown, Argyll. They have a son, William, aged two.\nMiss MacHugh, who visited Mr Irving in June, said: “I had William with me. It was only the second time he had seen him, the first time he was only three months old, so this time he was running about saying ‘Daddy!’. That’s what made him so positive about all this, he’s just desperate to get home in time for Christmas and see William.\n“That’s the one place they want to be. It’s Christmas. It’s not a time to be in prison.”\nMiss MacHugh said she believed Foreign Office diplomacy to get the men home was not working.\n“They speak a good game and say they are doing all they can. For the last three years, they have managed to do nothing,” she said.\nThe other three Britons jailed are Nick Dunn, 30, another ex-para, from, Ashington, Northumberland, Ray Tindall, 41, who served with the Yorkshire Regiment and Welsh Regiment, from Chester, and Nicholas Simpson, 45, who served in the Yorkshire Regiment, from Catterick.\nTheir US employer, AdvanFort, “walked away” from the situation and have not paid salaries or helped with legal and travel fees, the families say. The firm was not available for comment.\nFamily and friends have rallied round, the Mission To Seafarers charity has helped and legal advice has come for free from City lawyer Stephen Askins, a maritime law expert and ex-Royal Marine.\nMr Askins said: “It’s a miscarriage of justice. They should not have been charged.”\nA spokeswoman for the Foreign and Commenwealth Office said the matter had been raised regularly at the highest levels.\nShe said: “We recognise what a difficult time this is for those involved and we have taken significant action on this case.\n“Foreign Office staff in India have been providing support to all six men since their arrest and are working to make sure their welfare is protected in prison. We are also in regular contact with their families in the UK.”\nFor more information or to offer help, visit the Facebook page www.facebook.com/FREESGO6/ .}}
{{After linking up with Jacquees for “Ocean”, TK Kravitz gives fans a new solo record titled “Mile Away”. Produced by Nonstop. His new mixtape 2.0 is on the way.\n﻿﻿}}
{{Close Get email notifications on {{subject}} daily!\nYour notification has been saved.\nThere was a problem saving your notification.\n{{description}}\nEmail notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.}}
{{Spending Christmas Day on a hospital ward might not be the ideal place to enjoy the season’s festivities but staff at The Orthopaedic Hospital are pulling out all the stops to ensure patients have the most special time possible.\nIn the weeks leading up to Christmas Day, wards and departments have been putting on a host of events and activities to make life that little bit brighter for patients who have had to spend time at the hospital this Christmas.\nJust some of the events have included a children’s party on Alice Ward, cast members from the Stiwt Theatre’s pantomime Snow White visiting the children on the ward, as well as players and staff from Oswestry’s The New Saints.\nThe Midland Centre for Spinal Injuries (MCSI) held a Christmas party – complete with staff performing a synchronised swimming scene in the dining room for patients, while the Therapy Team held a festive fitness class – in the fancy dress – for spinal injury patients.\nHowever for Christmas Day itself, the focus for staff is ensuring that the hospital is like a home from home for patients.\nThis year there will be about 15 inpatients on Sheldon Ward, the hospital’s dedicated Care of the Elderly Ward, on Christmas Day.\nAnd staff on that ward will be working hard to give their patients a Christmas to remember.\nLorna Edwards, ward manager, said: “We encourage our patients’ family members to come in and have their Christmas dinner here to make it as normal as possible for the patients.\n“Every year we lay out some tables in the ward – complete with crackers – and all the patients who are able to get out of their beds will be able to come together to eat their Christmas lunch. We do it every year, and it is always a lovely atmosphere.\n“No-one wants to be in hospital at Christmas, but there’s always a real family atmosphere on Sheldon Ward, and that’s thanks to our patients.”\nRebecca Warren, ward manager for MCSI, who will be working on Christmas Day, says she’s looking forward to the day.\nShe said: “I know that hospital isn’t anyone’s chosen place to wake up on Christmas morning but on MCSI the atmosphere is always a brilliant one on Christmas Day, with our patients’ families coming in to visit and eat lunch with them.\n“It’s always lovely to have our patients’ younger relatives in too because their excitement on Christmas Day is infectious and puts a smile on not just patients’ faces but also staff too.”\nMark Brandreth, chief executive, said: “I am incredibly proud of all our staff working hard this Christmas to give their patients the best possible experience at this time of year.\n“I am especially grateful to staff who will spend Christmas Day working, and I look forward to visiting staff on Christmas morning to say thank you in person.\n“Nobody wants to spend Christmas in hospital but, thanks to the enthusiasm and commitment of staff, I know our patients will have a special time here at RJAH.”}}
{{Small and subtle changes on this year’s higher-level music paper allowed students to think clearly, while the stronger students were given the opportunity to shine in some challenging questions.\nMary McFadden, a music teacher at Loreto Balbriggan, said that she was “very pleased” with the paper.\n“The language on the paper was particularly clear while, in its physical layout, it had lots of space; this allows students to really focus on what is being asked.”\nMusic students have already completed a practical exam, singing or playing music pieces in April, and this accounts for 25 per cent of their overall marks. The written exam includes listening, composing and general study sections.\n“In the section on Irish music, students were asked to ‘describe the accompaniment’, which makes them really think about what is going on,” said Ms McFadden, an ASTI subject representative.\n“In another part, they were asked to describe two musical features of their chosen song from a list that included melody, rhythm, tonality and form.”\nThe ordinary level paper was clear and well laid out, said Ms McFadden. “There was a lot of multiple choice and plenty of opportunity to pick up marks along the way.”\nAround 7,676 girls and 3,017 boys sat this year’s junior cert music exam, with 9,186 of them taking the higher level paper}}
{{Hellavision provides a space for animators and musicians to create without judgment\nA collage shows some of the different styles appearing in Hellavision animations. (via Hellavision on Facebook)\nSponsor\nSponsor\nThe theory of improv hinges on the idea of creating quickly and without judgment. Minnesota motion designer Peter Steineck took that idea and brought it to the world of animation.\nSteineck is the founder and facilitator of Hellavision Television Animation Show. Hellavision is a series of short animations that animators create the idea of working quickly and not judging themselves. The shorts vary in animation style and subject matter.\n“It’s useful in that sense where people can make quickly,” said Steineck. “And they don’t have to think about how their work is going to be perceived because they’re watching it with friends.”\nAnimators in the Twin Cities and beyond submit one to two-minute shorts that are prompted by the idea of creating quickly. Steineck takes all the shorts and puts them together into one longer video. Musicians provide songs for the credits and some of the shorts.\nDan Forke performs under the name Wealthy Relative, and he provided the song for the credits of the third episode of Hellavision. Forke found Hellavision as an animator first.\n“I really appreciated the prompt that he presented,” Forke said. “The idea behind Hellavision is make something fast with a spirit of abandon. That’s been a great motivator to just make more stuff and to new directions, I wouldn’t normally.”\nThe lack of self-judgment was something Forke took with him into music as well. The song “Beta Test (Time to Paint!),” which was used in the credits of the third episode, was created in the spirit of improv.\n“The lyrics on that song were just sort of me reading out of a journal of notes and improvising on the spot,” Forke said.\nPresenting music or animations that you’ve created quickly could be an intimidating prospect, but Hellavision provides a community that applauds the unpolished.\n“If the community was different it would be scary,” Forke said. “It doesn’t feel like there’s any sense of competition. I think that’s what Peter is trying to build is just an open and welcoming environment where no is going to judge you if they don’t like your art.”\nHellavision is having its fourth quarterly free screening tomorrow, Thursday, June 21, at the Trylon.}}
{{New Canaan Country School fourth grade students traveled to the Salmon River State Forest in East Hampton, to release baby salmon known as “fry” into the river’s tributary on May 8.\nThe salmon release was the final step in a scientific study of salmon, ecology and environmental issues.\nIn February, Lower School Science Teacher Chantal Detlefs received 200 salmon eggs from the Connecticut River Salmon Association. Through its “Salmon-in-Schools” program, the organization has been working to re-establish the endangered species in the state’s major river.\nEvery day since then, the children have taken turns measuring the water temperature in their classroom’s chilled aquarium tanks; salmon need cold water, about 2 degrees Celsius.\nIn their classwork students charted the daily growth of the eggs as they became alevin and then fry. They learned about the salmon’s upstream anadromous, fresh and saltwater migration pattern to the river and back to the North Atlantic, observed scales under the microscope, and studied the effect of dams on salmon population.\n“The goal was to show them an example of a local endangered species,” said Detlefs. “They are able to observe closely, engage in real-time research and learn about environmental issues.”\nWhen the fry were ready students boarded buses to East Hampton to release the salmon. They also searched for small invertebrates (salmon food) in the river; and learned about the health of the rivers. In addition they played a “predator-prey” game, participated in a scavenger hunt and created a reflective writing piece, on the field trip.\nOne of the students, Graha Gale of Norwalk said he felt like he was “helping the world. Not a lot of people get to release an endangered species into nature.”}}
{{news\nBorder officials are under renewed scrutiny after 7-year-old Guatemalan Jakelin Caal died last week in US Customs and Border Protection custody.\nCaal was the second child to die after entering US custody at the border this year.\nBorder agencies pointed to the risks inherent to migration journeys, while some lawmakers and human rights organizations pointed to documented patterns of poor conditions and neglect in border facilities.\nBorder officials and facilities are under renewed scrutiny after 7-year-old Jakelin Caal died last week in US Customs and Border Protection custody.\nThe Guatemalan child died at an El Paso, Texas hospital eight hours after CBP took her into custody.\nAccording to a timeline released by CBP, agents first became aware of the girl's symptoms during a bus ride to a police station after the girl was apprehended along with a larger group of migrants.\nBy the time the group arrived at the station 90 minutes later, Jakelin had stopped breathing.\nBorder patrol officials on Friday said agents did everything they could to save the girl but that she had not had food or water for days. They added that an initial screening showed no evidence of health problems and that her father had signed a form indicating she was in good health.\nThe Department of Homeland Security's inspector general said Friday that it was investigating the circumstances surrounding the child's death and a DHS official said the agency's transparency practices are also under review after it took the department nearly a week to publicly announce the incident.\nThe renewed scrutiny into the border agencies comes after over a year of public outcry prompted by President Donald Trump's harsh immigration policies, reports of abuse and poor conditions, and a recent tear-gas-laden clash between migrants and authorities at the US border. But the incident isn't actually unprecedented.\nCaal isn't the first child to die after being taken into DHS custody.\nIn May, Yazmin Juarez and her 19-month-old daughter, like Caal and her family, reached the US border in a journey to flee crippling poverty in Guatemala. Juarez and her daughter Mairee were stopped by CBP agents and held for three weeks at a detention center in Dilley, Texas, where the infant fell ill.\nJuarez said in a later lawsuit that she repeatedly requested medical attention for Mairee's declining condition during their time at the facility, but was only prescribed medication that didn't have any noticeable effect.\nOnce they were released to join family in New Jersey, Mariee was coughing, vomiting and battling a high fever. Juarez rushed her to an Edison, New Jersey hospital the day after landing in the state on March 25, where she was held for respiratory failure.\nMariee would remain there for weeks before she suffered a fatal hemorrhage on May 10.\nAfter Mairee's death, Juarez filed a notice of claim against Eloy, Arizona, saying that ICE placed her and her daughter in a facility "with unsafe conditions, neglectful medical care, and inadequate supervision." The notice goes on to claim that Mairee contracted a respiratory infection that "went woefully under-treated for nearly a month."\nJuarez's lawyers filed a claim last month for $60 million, to which the government has six months to respond before a suit can be filed.\n"Having made the decision to jail small children, the US government is responsible to provide living conditions that are safe, sanitary and appropriate," Jones said of the negligence alleged in the case.\nChildren in custody\nA June report from a coalition of advocacy organizations said inadequate medical care probably contributed to the majority of deaths of detainees in immigration facilities between December 2015 and April 2017.\nSubstandard medical care caused or contributed to eight of 15 deaths reviewed, according to analysis from doctors included in the report, which was created as a collaboration between Human Rights Watch, the National Immigrant Justice Center, the Detention Watch Network and the American Civil Liberties Union. Though the deaths involved adults, a discernible pattern of neglect by facility employees is a concerning sign as agencies plan to expand their facilities to accommodate the migrant population, which currently includes approximately 15,000 children.\nAs officials maintain the quality of resources in their facilities, which are recorded in documents including inspection reports, the issue of overcrowding by unaccompanied minors near work and education age poses a much easier problem to solve than those associated with quality medical care and screening.\nThe Trump administration and border officials remain at odds with outcries from lawmakers and human rights groups, as Department of Homeland Security secretary Kirstjen Nielsen offered slight sympathy but sweeping blame to Caal's family for her death.\nNielsen said on Fox News the child's death was "just a very sad example of the dangers of this journey." No questions about the quality of care she received were asked.}}
{{Washington\nAN insurance salesman in rural Louisiana worries that immigration will sink the United States further into debt. In the Ohio countryside, a father of five says immigrants lower wages. But in New Orleans, a lifelong urbanite credits immigrants with rebuilding her hurricane-}}
{{US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo says the US will continue to help "the world's most vulnerable," but the US is on course this year to accept the lowest number of refugees since 1977\nThe United States is on course this year to welcome the lowest number of refugees since its resettlement program began in 1980, as President Donald Trump escalates his anti-immigration rhetoric.\nAmerica has historically been by far the most generous destination for those fleeing war and persecution, and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo defended its record Wednesday on World Refugee Day.\n"We will continue to help the world's most vulnerable refugees, reflecting the deeply held values of the American people," he said.\nBut, even as many Americans recoil at images of child asylum seekers separated from their families at the US border, official figures show a dramatic drop in refugees accepted for resettlement.\nAnd this when the UN High Commissioner for Refugees has pointed to a global crisis fed by wars in Africa, the Middle East and South Asia -- and when the United States remains the top preferred destination.\nAlready last year, Trump had slashed the number for refugees that Washington is prepared to accept to a historic low of 45,000 -- down from 110,000 in the last fiscal year under Barack Obama.\nBut between October 1 and June 15, two thirds of the way through the 2018 fiscal year, only 15,383 of the most vulnerable, chosen mainly from camps in Africa and the Middle East, had been admitted.\nRefugee advocates and resettlement agencies said this puts the United States on course to accept fewer than 25,000 refugees -- fewer than in any year since 1977 and down from 84,994 in 2016.\nThe program formally began in 1980 with the passage of the US Refugee Act, but State Department admissions figures go back to 1975.\n"Refugee resettlement to the US has been ground to a halt," the major non-profit International Rescue Committee declared in a highly critical report timed to coincide with World Refugee Day.\nIndependent advocacy group Refugees International gave Washington a failing "F" grade in its Refugee Day report card and accused Trump of misleading the public about the danger of accepting Muslims.\nDespite America having accepted around a million refugees since the September 11, 2001 attacks, not one has been convicted of an act of violence resulting in an American death, the group said.\nNevertheless, the group alleged, the admissions program has been "crippled" and the separation of families seeking asylum is "inhumane."\nOn Tuesday, Trump made clear his position on asylum seekers on the southern US border, declaring "I don't want people coming in" and alleging they have rehearsed exaggerated claims of persecution.\nBut refugees arriving under the resettlement program are vetted abroad by US security and intelligence agencies and chosen mainly from at-risk groups in UN-registered camps -- the elderly, widows and disabled.\n- Record crisis -\nNevertheless, with ever more stringent checks pushing the vetting process to greater length, the numbers are down, de facto inching Trump closer to his 2016 campaign pledge to ban all Muslim immigration.\nPompeo defended the system in his World Refugee Day message, noting that the United States remains a humanitarian leader which has provided $8 billion in aid this year to help war and disaster victims.\n"This assistance is provided as close to refugees' homes as possible in order to facilitate their voluntary, safe, and dignified return if and when conditions allow," he said.\nWhile not addressing the numbers coming through the system today, Pompeo noted correctly that the United States has resettled 3.3 million people -- more than any other country -- since the program began.\nHe said "global displacement has reached record levels" and urged governments, financial institutions and the private sector to do more while the US will "prioritize the admission of the most vulnerable."\nAnd he vowed that the United States would continue to work to end the conflicts that have led to what the UNHCR says are 65.6 million displaced people around the world -- a new record.}}
{{To all the patriots reading this, please put down your pitchforks and your guns. The U.S., in my personal opinion, is still one of the greatest political entities to ever exist. But that doesn’t negate the numerous issues that it still has. For example, Flint, Michigan still doesn’t have clean water, and many children in the area now have learning disabilities. But that’s not what I am here to discuss.\nI am here to relay to you that, yes, the United States education system is inherently racist.\nRacism most reasserted itself in American society with the election of Donald Trump. And it became dangerous in early August 2017 during the “Unite the Right” rally between white supremacist groups and left-wing counterprotesters. These prove that, despite the civil rights movement of more than 50 years ago, racism is still very much a part of the American identity. But what’s uniquely concerning is how early the current version of American racism starts.\nAccording to CNN, preschool-age black youth are suspended at 3.6 times the rate of their white peers and 3.8 times from kindergarten to 12th grade. And these are just the discipline statistics.\nThere are some 1.6 million students who attend schools who have no counselors but do have law enforcement present, especially in schools where the majority of students are students of color. There are also books that devalue African Americans and euphemize the history of slavery, a noted example being a McGraw-Hill textbook that referred to African slaves as “workers” who “emigrated” to the United States, an unacceptable error which was not fixed until 2015, according to Time magazine.\nEven with the recent correction, if you open any textbook and glance over it, you will notice something strange: It’s exceedingly Eurocentric. “When Europeans first did —” is a phrase that’s echoed in most history textbooks and even many textbooks in other disciplines. For example, the Eurocentric model of American education implies that Aristotle was essentially the founder of philosophy, neglecting to mention that Aristotle, along with numerous other ancient Greek and Roman philosophers, went to Egypt to study.\nIt’s not just philosophy, either. It’s also engineering, medicine and politics. Many of the things that Europeans get the credit for starting come from African teachings. Racial bias has gotten so severe that students are often punished for wearing traditional hairstyles and clothing, being deemed a distraction to the other students. Banning clothing like the kente cloth or banning hairstyles such as tree braids are just two of the many ways that Eurocentric education demonizes and degrades African history and culture.\nWhen exposing any problem, it’s fundamental that you bring up possible solutions. Attempting to topple a societal model that’s been in place, such as the whitewashing of Jesus, is no easy task. And, frankly, affirmative action and diversity quotas are not it. By issuing a diversity quota, you’re effectively pushing under-qualified people into positions they shouldn’t be in and it’s systematically just reversing the issue, not actually fixing it.\nThe only way to properly fix the issue is to give minorities the resources to compete equally with white students from the beginning. It’s clear that the issue at hand begins in preschool and persists throughout their schooling. The easiest way to teach young students racial sensitivity is through diversity programs, and that goes for all levels of education.\nThankfully, some of these programs are regularly implemented during Black History Month. But the issue with this is that it still implies that black history began with slavery. It fails to expose young students to the cultures of Africa so that they may be sensitive to them when — if ever — they are exposed. We have to remind our students that other cultures are not weird, but rather important. At higher levels of education, diversity programs can expand students’ perspectives more robustly.\nDiversity programs can take many shapes. They can be as simple as a play presented by students. You can also expand it out: Let’s celebrate the independence days of not only America but also Kenya, Niger or Trinidad. Provide as many opportunities to try foods from other nations and other cultures.\nIt’s clear that racism still affects the United States educational system long after its supposed “end” with the civil rights movement. Starting with more police encounters and suspensions in elementary, middle and high schools. Upgrading to shocking microaggressions, not just in colleges and universities but in specialized fields such as STEM and Medical. While it may seem that this problem is almost unbeatable, it’s not appropriate to believe so. By encouraging diversity programs and exposing students to other cultures, we can directly combat the racism that is choking black students and other students of color in the US educational system and make a dent in societal racism that chokes this nation.}}
{{by Bruce Campion-Smith\nAgencies will be restricted in how they use intelligence received from foreign entities\nThe federal government has issued new regulations to Canada’s security agencies to restrict the use of intelligence possibly obtained through mistreatment or torture – unless the information is needed to prevent the loss of life.\nPublic Safety Minister Ralph Goodale on Monday issued directives to the Royal Canadian Mounted\nPolice, the Canadian Security Intelligence Service and the Canada Border Services Agency.\nThe ministerial directives replace those issued in 2011 by the previous Conservative government and are meant to “more clearly prohibit the disclosure or requesting of information that would result in a substantial risk of mistreatment,” according to the public safety department.\nThat passing of information was behind the nightmare endured by Canadian Maher Arar. A public inquiry concluded that erroneous information passed by the RCMP led the Americans to deport Arar, eventually to Syria where he was tortured and held for about a year.\nThe new regulations bar each of the agencies from disclosing information that would result in a “substantial” risk of mistreatment of an individual by a foreign entity.\nAs well, they are prevented from asking for information that would put a person at risk of mistreatment.\nFinally, the agencies are restricted in how they can use any intelligence that was likely obtained through mistreatment of an individual by a foreign entity.\nThe new rules are meant to “guard against any complicity in mistreatment,” a department official told reporters during a background briefing.\nYet there is not a blanket prohibition on the use of information where torture or mistreatment is suspected. The new directives do allow the use of such intelligence “when necessary to prevent loss of life or significant personal injury.”\nSuch cases would require high-level approval within the security agencies and will be flagged to the minister as well as the proposed oversight body comprised of MPs.\nThe government refused Monday to say how often it may have used intelligence obtained through\ntorture and mistreatment, saying only that “officials are sometimes required to interact with foreign entities that may engage in those practices that are contrary to our values and principles.”\n“The ministerial directions are provided exactly to bring more clarity to the decision-making process,” the official told reporters.\nSecurity expert Stephanie Carvin said the new rules acknowledge the reality that confronts security agencies today.\n“We are an intelligence-consuming nation. Canada is heavily reliant on intelligence-sharing partnerships.\nYou have to strike a balance that is also realistic,” said Carvin, an assistant professor of international relations at the Norman Paterson School of International Affairs at Carleton University.\n“I wish we lived in a world where you could just cut yourself off from everyone who was bad but you can’t,” she said in an interview.\nShe said the challenge for security agencies will be sorting out which information may have been derived through mistreatment or torture. Given the prison conditions in some developing countries, just being detained might count as mistreatment and abuse, she said.\n“Those kinds of cases still aren’t clear,” Carvin said.\nShe did say the directives introduce some openness and political oversight. “We really don’t have a window into how often this is done . . . I think this goes a long way to creating some transparency.”\nAmnesty International said the new rules are a “significant improvement,” but criticized the government for still allowing the possibility that intelligence obtained by torture could be used by security agencies.\nThe human rights organization said that “loopholes and lack of clarity in some areas may still leave the door open to complicity in abuses and the tacit promotion of torture at the hands of foreign officials.”\n“Promises not to torture from those who already break clear international and national laws by torturing in the first place are virtually worthless,” Alex Neve, secretary general of Amnesty International Canada, said in a statement.\nCopyright 2017-Torstar Syndication Services}}
{{Low pressure and a lack of water supply has affected homes and the preparation of Christmas dinners across south west London.\nA spokeswoman for Thames Water told the Press Association they “are experiencing an issue with the pumps in the water network”.\n“We have got a team on site investigating and looking to get it fixed as quickly as possible,” she added.\nSerenethos via Getty Images Many Christmas dinner plans have been thwarted... (file picture)\n“We are really sorry to any customers experiencing low pressure or no water.”\nWith Christmas feasts to cook, many have taken to social media to express their dismay at the situation and the lack of water coming out of their taps.\nTwitter user @EmmaJLing wrote: “There is no running water in Twickenham on Christmas Day, can’t cook Christmas dinner. Merry Christmas to you all. Bah humbug.”\nCheers @thameswater, I mean it's not like having a water supply is vital on Christmas Day... #watergate #twickenham — André Lombard (@AndreLombard2) December 25, 2016\nAs a special Christmas greeting from Thames Water....They've switched off the water in #Hampton area. Glad we've all had our showers. — Tony Hennessy (@TonyPhilip) December 25, 2016\nMerry Christmas to all of us in Twickenham from Thames Water, eh. — Stuart Dennis (@Stuart_Dennis) December 25, 2016\nyep, we've got no water for xmas day. thanks thames water, merry christmas! @thameswater — PyrionFlax (@PyrionFlax) December 25, 2016\nThames Water. How's this possible? On CHRISTMAS DAY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! — Howell DS (@howellds) December 25, 2016\nEmma Pound added: “Christmas Day and we have no NO WATER! @thameswater please hurry and get the TW area back in action.”\nWhile John Soones said: “No water in the bathrooms and only a dribble upstairs. I’m sorry for the poor people working on Christmas Day to put this right.”\nThe water company said on their website that properties in the TW and W postcodes have been affected by the issue with their Hampton pumps.\nAs of midday, Thames Water tweeted that the pumps had been restarted and that customers would “slowly” start to regain pressure.\n#TW/W no waters - Our engineers have managed to restart pumps on site - this means that you will slowly start to regain pressure — Thames Water (@thameswater) December 25, 2016}}
{{Students in Reisterstown may have a respite from the heat this school year, as Baltimore County Public Schools introduce a new heat policy for non-air conditioned schools.\nAt their meeting Tuesday, Aug. 9, the Baltimore County Public Schools Board of Education passed a policy directing the superintendent to close non-air conditioned schools when the heat index is forecast to reach 90 degrees by 11 a.m. Additionally, if the temperature reaches 90 degrees by 2 p.m., students will be released from non-air conditioned schools 2 hours early.\nThis policy affects schools without air conditioning countywide. Currently, 34 of Baltimore County's 173 lack air conditioning, though air conditioning systems are expected to be added to 29 county schools by the end of the school year. The final nine schools are expected to be retrofitted with air conditioning systems by Aug. 2019.\nThree schools in Reisterstown lack air conditioning, including Reisterstown Elementary, Franklin Middle and Franklin High schoosl. Franklin Middle and High are the only middle and high schools in Reisterstown.\nIn 2000, the county built an addition to Franklin High School's 1960-built structure. The classrooms located in the addition feature air conditioning, while students in the original building are left without AC.\nRussell Valentine, assistant principal of Franklin High School, said he was excited to hear about the policy, particularly that the superintendent is directed to close schools as early as the evening before the heat is predicted, if possible.\n"Early dismissal can be kind of hectic, because parents and kids are scrambling," Valentine said. "After school programs are closed and students are trying to contact the people that were planning on picking them up at 5 o'clock. The earlier you can make a decision, the better."\nValentine said the school can become unbearably uncomfortable in the older part of the building on hot and humid days, particularly at the start and end of the school year. Though he appreciates the 90-degree cut off, he said high temperatures aren't the only factors that contribute to a poor learning environment.\n"It can be really humid and 88 degrees or it can be 95 degrees and not humid at all," Valentine said. "I would much rather have the 95-degree temperature [without humidity]. I think people underestimate the effects humidity can have on comfort levels."\nThe Baltimore County Board of Education has been working to install air conditioning in each of its schools since August 2013, when the county approved a plan to fund air conditioning systems for five schools in Parkville, Millford Mill and Pikesville. That installation cost the county $17.2 million and the state $11.7 million.\nDays taken off due to the heat will be eligible for a waiver from the state's 180-day school year mandate.\nFranklin Middle and Reisterstown Elementary are expected to have systems by August 2017 while Franklin High School is expected to have full air conditioning by August 2018.\nJacob.deNobel@carrollcountytimes.com\n410-857-7890\nTwitter.com/Jacob_deNobel}}
{{+ - Photo: JIS Photographer Story Highlights Prime Minister Andrew Holness says his vision for Christmas in Jamaica is one where persons exemplify the ethic of love for neighbor and peace and goodwill toward everyone that Jesus Christ displayed.\n“Christmas reminds us of all this and gives us an opportunity, yet again, to recommit to the things of lasting value,” he said.\n“At this time, let us especially remember those in the hospital and those sick at home. Let us remember those who have lost loved ones during the year as well as those who are lonely and depressed. Let us reach out and touch somebody. Make someone’s Christmas memorable this year,”\nPrime Minister Andrew Holness says his vision for Christmas in Jamaica is one where persons exemplify the ethic of love for neighbor and peace and goodwill toward everyone that Jesus Christ displayed. “I have a vision of a Christmas with peaceful Jamaican communities, where people look out for one another’s interests and are actively engaged in spreading the Christmas spirit of peace,” he said.\nThe prime minister added that his vision is a Jamaica which prizes cooperation and collaboration over confrontation and conflict, and where concern for the poor and vulnerable is inculcated in each child and becomes infused in our culture. “Christmas reminds us of all this and gives us an opportunity, yet again, to recommit to the things of lasting value,” he said.\nPrime Minister Holness further stated his vision for a Christmas where economic prosperity will be equitably shared, providing a solid foundation for children and inspiring hope in youth that they can achieve all their dreams “right here on this rock of ours.”\nHe also appealed for persons to remember the sick, lonely and depressed. “At this time, let us especially remember those in the hospital and those sick at home. Let us remember those who have lost loved ones during the year as well as those who are lonely and depressed. Let us reach out and touch somebody. Make someone’s Christmas memorable this year,” urged the Prime Minister.\nPrime Minister Holness made special mention of senior citizens and those in the special services and security forces stating, “I salute all those who sacrifice being with their own families to care for and protect others, especially those in the essential services. We hail our senior citizens, who have given so much to us. We thank you for your devoted service and for all you have invested in our lives.”}}
{{caption A Canadian flag with a marijuana leaf is flown during a 4/20 rally to demand the legalization of marijuana on Parliament Hill in Ottawa April 20, 2012. source REUTERS/Patrick Doyle\nCanada just became the second country in the world to legalize marijuana nationwide.\nThe bill passed Canada’s Senate 52-29 on Tuesday evening.\nPrime Minister Justin Trudeau’s promised to legalize marijuana during Canada’s 2015 campaign.\nMarijuana stocks surged at the news on Wednesday morning.\nCanada is now the second country in the world to legalize marijuana, paving the way for recreational marijuana sales throughout the country.\nCanada’s Upper House of Parliament on Tuesday evening approved the revised bill 52-29, making Canada the first Group of Seven country to legalize marijuana. Uruguay previously legalized marijuana in 2013.\n“It’s been too easy for our kids to get marijuana – and for criminals to reap the profits. Today, we change that. Our plan to legalize & regulate marijuana just passed the Senate,” Trudeau said in a Tuesday evening tweet after the vote passed.\nWhat the bill does\nBill C-45, known as the Cannabis Act, legalizes marijuana but leaves it up to each province to decide how to implements sales. Some provinces, like Ontario, are planning on provincially-run outlets, while others, like Alberta, will open up retail marijuana to the private sector.\nThe federal government set a minimum age of 18 to purchase marijuana, though some provinces have indicated they will raise the age to 19, mirroring liquor purchase laws. The bill makes the distribution and sale of marijuana to minors an offense.\ncaption It’s Canada’s moment. source REUTERS/Andres Stapff\nRecreational sales are expected to begin in the next 8 to 12 weeks, according to Reuters.\nThe bill was part of a promise that Trudeau’s Liberal Party made during the 2015 election campaign to keep marijuana out of young people’s hands and move the illicit market into a regulated framework.\n“I’m feeling just great,” Sen. Tony Dean, who sponsored the bill in the Senate, told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. “We’ve just witnessed a historic vote for Canada. The end of 90 years of prohibition. Transformative social policy, I think. A brave move on the part of the government.”\nActivists applauded the move\nCannabis activists cheered the move on Wednesday morning.\n“Canada should be applauded for taking bold and decisive steps towards ending the failed prohibition of marijuana,” Hannah Hetzer, the Senior International Policy Manager for the Drug Policy Alliance, said in a statement. “Canada’s progress will galvanize support for drug policy reforms in the U.S. and all around the world.”\nErik Altieri, the executive director of the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, echoed Hetzer’s sentiment.\n“We applaud Canada for showing federal legislators in the United States what can be accomplished with true leadership and dedication to sound public policy,” Altieri said in a statement.\nMarijuana stocks are surging\nMarijuana stocks surged at the news on Wednesday morning.\nThe Canadian Marijuana Index, an aggregate measurement of all publicly-listed marijuana stocks in Canada, was up 3.34% as of 10:45 a.m. on Wednesday. The overall North American index, which includes US stocks, was up 2.28%.\nGolden Leaf Holdings, a Canadian Securities Exchange-listed cannabis company, was the biggest gainer with the stock surging 6.81% as of the time of writing.\nLegalized marijuana is expected to be a boon for Canada’s economy. CIBC, one of the country’s largest banks, predicts Canada’s legal marijuana market will be a $6.5 billion industry by 2020.\nA number of Canadian marijuana firms, including Aurora Cannabis and Canopy Growth Corp are seeing a wave of investor excitement around marijuana legalization. Marijuana companies are capitalizing on all that liquidity to go on acquisition sprees.}}
{{The Hamilton County Board of Education voted to approve the budget for this upcoming fiscal year. It was a majority vote of 8-1. Last week the school board did not approve Interim Superintendent Kirk Kelly's budget, which would have required an additional $33.5 million, and a property tax hike.\nBut they approved a balanced budget, as requested by the county commission, which includes an increase $9-million, and no tax hike.\nSchool board members are asking the county commission for an additional $9 million in funding from last year's budget. The board will also present to the County Commission a "needs" list of $24.5-million.\nREAD MORE | Budget talks continue for the Hamilton County school board\nAfter months of going back and forth, school board members finally approved the budget for the upcoming school year. “We worked hard to get this done. The board worked hard, the staff worked hard. We want to do the right thing,” said school board member Joe Smith.\nThe balanced budget is listed at more than $372-million. It includes a 3% pay raise for Hamilton County teachers, who received a two percent increase last year. Only one board member, Rhonda Thurman was opposed.\n“We are not an arm of the teachers union. It is not our job. Their job is to negotiate with what we can come up with additional funds or additional money. Big chunk of change for $7.8 million in raises when we have so many needs in our schools,” said school board member, Rhonda Thurman.\nBut Kathy Lennon disagreed. She said to have more successful students we need to invest in our teachers.\n“We will recruit better teachers," Lennon said. "We spend a lot of time on our transportation and increasing pay for our transportation. We have to do the same for our teachers.”\nThe budget also includes money for the new Durham School Services bus contract, pay for 30 bus attendants, and more money for contracted bus drivers.\nDr. Steve Highlander presented the balanced budget to the county commission earlier this week. But he hopes they will also study the so-called wish list, and find more money to meet those needs.\nREAD MORE | Budget battle intensifies; school board wants balanced budget\n“I hope they will do the very best they can, I am sure they will, to meet the needs of the kids. When they see exactly what it is going to be spent on it may make a difference on whether they can reallocate funds from other areas,” said school board chair man Doctor Steve Highlander.\nREAD MORE | School board and county commissioners hold joint budget meeting\nThe county commission will hold a work session on May 9th to discuss the school budget, with a final decision expected by late June.}}
{{A Northern Virginia commission announced Wednesday it will not renew a federal contract to provide housing for migrant children amid growing outrage about a Trump administration policy to separate parents and children who cross the border illegally.\nThe Northern Virginia Juvenile Detention Commission (NVJDC) maintains 30 beds at a secure Alexandria facility for minors who arrive at the border alone and have violent backgrounds or gang affiliations. The facility does not house children who have been separated from their parents. The contract will expire in September.\nAn NVJDC spokesman did not immediately respond to a request for comment, but Alexandria Mayor Allison Silberberg applauded the move in a series of tweets on Tuesday.\n“I have expressed strong concerns about this contract,” Silberberg wrote. “Like our nation’s former First Ladies and many elected leaders on both sides of the aisle, I believe the policy of separating children from their families at detention centers is immoral, inhumane and unacceptable.”\nPresident Trump reversed his position on the family separation issue Wednesday, announcing that he will sign an executive order ending the practice.}}
{{Festival Ballet Albuquerque Dancers Featured in Music from Angel Fire’s Staging of “A Soldier’s Tale”\nMusic from Angel Fire’s Artistic Director Ida Kavafian is bringing the rarely seen staging of Stravisky’s “A Soldier’s Tale” to the Taos Center for the Arts 7 p.m. Saturday (Aug. 27).\nDancers from the Festival Ballet Albuquerque will join musicians and actors onstage in a transformative performance conducted by Guillermo Figueroa. “A Soldier’s Tale” dates back to 1918 and tells the story of a Russian soldier, who as he heads home on leave, is enticed by the Devil to trade his beloved violin for a book that can predict his future.\nAs part of this season’s theme of “Storytelling,” Music from Angel Fire’s production comes to life with the narration of Toby Appel and features nationally-acclaimed festival musicians.\nTickets can be purchased by calling the Box Office at 575.377.3233, or at the Taos Center for the Arts one hour before the performance. The Taos Center for the Arts is located at 145 Paseo Del Pueblo Norte, Taos, NM. Ticket prices $35. Festival information, concert programming and dates can be found at www.musicfromangelfire.org.\nEach year Music from Angel Fire’s Summer Festival draws musicians, composers, conductors and music lovers to northern New Mexico from around the country to perform and celebrate an impressive array of works from the great Classical, Romantic, Baroque and contemporary composers. And this year}}
{{Queen Elizabeth II will not attend the Christmas service near her Sandringham estate in rural Norfolk, England, as she is suffering from cold, Buckingham Palace announced.\nThis will be the first time the monarch will miss the traditional Christmas day service as she has attended every one since 1988.\n”Her Majesty will participate in the Royal Family Christmas celebrations during the day,” CNN quoted a statement as saying.\nHer husband, 95-year-old Prince Philip did attend the Sunday morning Christmas service, waving to well-wishers on his way out of the church.He had to cut back his public schedule and charitable works.\nHe was also suffering from a heavy cold earlier in the week, the palace said.\nAs a concession to age and his cold, he drove to the church instead of walking.\nGet Our Top Stories Everyday, Enter Your Email Address:}}
{{Andre and Zac spread a little Christmas cheer and share some Christmas stories as they're joined by Zac's brother, University of Mount Union basketball assistant coach Brody Jackson. Tune in for stories of family traditions, favoritism, flat tires and learning from legends. ​Subscribe to A to Z on iTunes here.}}
{{Police earlier rescued eight people believed to be illegal immigrants being smuggled into the US inside a sweltering 18-wheeler trailer earlier this month. (Source: Reuters) Police earlier rescued eight people believed to be illegal immigrants being smuggled into the US inside a sweltering 18-wheeler trailer earlier this month. (Source: Reuters)\nScores of would-be migrants being smuggled from Central America to the United States were rescued from an abandoned truck, officials in the Mexican state of Veracruz said. Authorities said 178 people were found in the tractor-trailer truck in the Mexican town of Tantima. Their rescue comes less than a week after the horrific suffocation deaths of 10 migrants who were trapped in an 18-wheel truck and discovered last Sunday in a Walmart parking lot in San Antonio, Texas.\nAuthorities said as many as 200 migrants may have been crammed into the trailer found in Texas, many of whom had to be hospitalized. Some survivors fled the parking lot in waiting cars, according to witness accounts. Officials said occupants of the truck on Saturday narrowly averted tragedy realized at some point that they had been abandoned by the traffickers, and that a few managed to escape the vehicle and enlist the aid of local inhabitants of the town who gave them food and water. The Central Americans were then transported by police to a migration center, where they were given medical assistance before authorities began the process of returning them to their countries of origin.\nA Mexican military source told AFP that most of the Central Americans were adults, although there were also a handful of minors found in the vehicle. Officials in the United States say fewer migrants are making the perilous overland journey to America from Central American and Mexico in recent months, in large part because of harsh, anti-immigrant rhetoric from US President Donald Trump, who came to power in January. Migrants from Central America and Mexico will to make the dangerous trip risk being victimized by thieves, criminal gangs and unscrupulous traffickers who sometimes take their money and abandon them in desperate conditions on either side of the US border.\nFor all the latest World News, download Indian Express App}}
{{The best Christmas horror movie is, of course, It's a Wonderful Life....\n.... if you imagine Clarence as a devil sent to torment George for offing himself....\n....and if stop the film 10 minutes before the ending.\nBut Black Christmas is a pretty fair addition to this very specific sub-genre. Margot Kidder and Olivia Hussey as sorority sisters. Keir Dullea as the madman stalking them. Written by Roy Moore...but not that Roy Moore.\nIf you have seen some of the tropes in this movie before, it's because every movie of the kind that followed? Stole from it.\nEnjoy!}}
{{A house at 71 Carriage Road in Bristol was significantly damaged in a fire reported just before 9:30 a.m. on Christmas Day, but police said none of the family that was home was injured.\nThe cause of the fire is not yet known.}}
{{It is an unseasonably mild Christmas Day, and possibly one of the warmest on record, forecasters say.\nThough cloudy during the day with patchy drizzle, temperatures of 14C are predicted in some parts of the country – and if they go any higher, they could rival the mighty 15.6C registered in Devon in 1920.\nFollowing on the heels of Storm Barbara, Storm Conor steamed through overnight, with heavy winds expected to pick up in the north towards nightfall.\nHASLOO via Getty Images It's an unseasonably mild Christmas day\nAmber weather warnings have been issued for the north, where gusts are expected to reach 80mph.\nMet Office meteorologist Chris Page told the Telegraph: “Because of the wind direction from the south west, Storm Conor brings up some milder air which means temperatures will only drop to lows of 9 (48F) and 10C (50F), making it a very mild start to Christmas day.\nIt's an unseasonably mild Christmas Day afternoon across the UK. Wet and very windy in the north, breezy and fairly cloudy in the south pic.twitter.com/9ygrwI10p7 — Met Office (@metoffice) December 25, 2016\n“We’ll see some clearer, drier spells in Scotland but the sunshine will be in the south and with south-westerly winds dragging up more mild air we could even see some records broken.\n“It could maybe reach 15C which could make it the warmest Christmas day of record in the last 100 years.\n“For Scotland though, we could still see a touch of snow.”\nBoxing Day will feel colder, with prolonged sunny spells and most places remaining dry.\nFrom Tuesday 27 December onwards indications are that high pressure will once again start to dominate our weather bringing more settled conditions with the risk of overnight fog for southern areas while parts of the north remain blustery.}}
{{Perry Hill students Ben Sheldon and Jadon Wolfe won a ride to school in a police car for the last day of the year from a raffle and were brought to school by Shelton Police Officer Ken Giangregorio last week.}}
{{Trump administration officials have been sending babies and other young children forcibly separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border to at least three "tender age" shelters in South Texas, The Associated Press has learned.\nLawyers and medical providers who have visited the Rio Grande Valley shelters described play rooms of crying preschool-age children in crisis. The government also plans to open a fourth shelter to house hundreds of young migrant children in Houston, where city leaders denounced the move Tuesday.\nSince the White House announced its zero tolerance policy in early May, more than 2,300 children have been taken from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border, resulting in a new influx of young children requiring government care. The government has faced withering critiques over images of some of the children in cages inside U.S. Border Patrol processing stations.\nDecades after the nation's child welfare system ended the use of orphanages over concerns about the lasting trauma to children, the administration is standing up new institutions to hold Central American toddlers that the government separated from their parents.\n"The thought that they are going to be putting such little kids in an institutional setting? I mean it is hard for me to even wrap my mind around it," said Kay Bellor, vice president for programs at Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, which provides foster care and other child welfare services to migrant children. "Toddlers are being detained."\nBellor said shelters follow strict procedures surrounding who can gain access to the children in order to protect their safety, but that means information about their welfare can be limited.\nBy law, child migrants traveling alone must be sent to facilities run by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services within three days of being detained. The agency then is responsible for placing the children in shelters or foster homes until they are united with a relative or sponsor in the community as they await immigration court hearings.\nBut U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions' announcement last month that the government would criminally prosecute everyone who crosses the U.S.-Mexico border illegally has led to the breakup of migrant families and sent a new group of hundreds of young children into the government's care.\nThe United Nations, some Democratic and Republican lawmakers and religious groups have sharply criticized the policy, calling it inhumane.\nNot so, said Steven Wagner, an official with the Department of Health and Human Services.\n"We have specialized facilities that are devoted to providing care to children with special needs and tender age children as we define as under 13 would fall into that category," he said. "They're not government facilities per se, and they have very well-trained clinicians, and those facilities meet state licensing standards for child welfare agencies, and they're staffed by people who know how to deal with the needs — particularly of the younger children."\nUntil now, however, it's been unknown where they are.\n"In general we do not identify the locations of permanent unaccompanied alien children program facilities," said agency spokesman Kenneth Wolfe.\nThe three centers — in Combes, Raymondville and Brownsville — have been rapidly repurposed to serve needs of children including some under 5. A fourth, planned for Houston, would house up to 240 children in a warehouse previously used for people displaced by Hurricane Harvey, Mayor Sylvester Turner said.\nTurner said he met with officials from Austin-based Southwest Key Programs, the contractor that operates some of the child shelters, to ask them to reconsider their plans. A spokeswoman for Southwest Key didn't immediately reply to an email seeking comment.\n"And so there comes a point in time we draw a line and for me, the line is with these children," said Turner during a news conference Tuesday.\nOn a practical level, the zero tolerance policy has overwhelmed the federal agency charged with caring for the new influx of children who tend to be much younger than teens who typically have been traveling to the U.S. alone. Indeed some recent detainees are infants, taken from their mothers.\nDoctors and lawyers who have visited the shelters said the facilities were fine, clean and safe, but the kids — who have no idea where their parents are — were hysterical, crying and acting out.\n"The shelters aren't the problem, it's taking kids from their parents that's the problem," said South Texas pediatrician Marsha Griffin who has visited many.\nAlicia Lieberman, who runs the Early Trauma Treatment Network at University of California, San Francisco, said decades of study show early separations can cause permanent emotional damage.\n"Children are biologically programmed to grow best in the care of a parent figure. When that bond is broken through long and unexpected separations with no set timeline for reunion, children respond at the deepest physiological and emotional levels," she said. "Their fear triggers a flood of stress hormones that disrupt neural circuits in the brain, create high levels of anxiety, make them more susceptible to physical and emotional illness, and damage their capacity to manage their emotions, trust people, and focus their attention on age-appropriate activities."\nDays after Sessions announced the zero-tolerance policy, the government issued a call for proposals from shelter and foster care providers to provide services for the new influx of children taken from their families after journeying from Honduras, El Salvador, Guatemala and Mexico.\nAs children are separated from their families, law enforcement agents reclassify them from members of family units to "unaccompanied alien children." Federal officials said Tuesday that since May, they have separated 2,342 children from their families, rendering them unaccompanied minors in the government's care.\nWhile Mexico is still the most common country of origin for families arrested at the border, in the last eight months Honduras has become the fastest-growing category as compared to fiscal year 2017.\nDuring a press briefing Tuesday, reporters repeatedly asked for an age breakdown of the children who have been taken. Officials from both law enforcement and Health and Human Services said they didn't know how many children were under 5, under 2, or even so little they're non-verbal.\n"The facilities that they have for the most part are not licensed for tender age children," said Michelle Brane, director of migrant rights at the Women's Refugee Commission, who met with a 4-year-old girl in diapers in a McAllen warehouse where Border Patrol temporarily holds migrant families. "There is no model for how you house tons of little children in cots institutionally in our country. We don't do orphanages, our child welfare has recognized that is an inappropriate setting for little children."\nSo now, the government has to try to hire more caregivers.\nThe recent call for proposals by the federal government's Office of Refugee Resettlement said it was seeking applicants who can provide services for a diverse population "of all ages and genders, as well as pregnant and parenting teens."\nEven the policy surrounding what age to take away a baby is inconsistent. Customs and Border Protection field chiefs over all nine southwest border districts can use their discretion over how young is too young, officials said. And while Health and Human Services defines "tender age" typically as 12 and under, Customs and Border Protection has at times defined it as 5 and under.\nFor 30 years, Los Fresnos, Texas-based International Education Services ran emergency shelters and foster care programs for younger children and pregnant teens who arrived in the U.S. as unaccompanied minors. At least one resident sued for the right to have an abortion in a high-profile case last March.\nFor reasons the agency did not explain, three months ago the government's refugee resettlement office said it was ending their funding to the program and transferred all children to other facilities. This came weeks before the administration began its "zero tolerance" policy, prompting a surge in "tender age" migrant children needing shelter.\nIn recent days, members of Congress have been visiting the shelters and processing centers, or watching news report about them, bearing witness to the growing chaos. In a letter sent to Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Tuesday, a dozen Republican senators said separating families isn't consistent with American values and ordinary human decency.\nOn Tuesday, a Guatemalan mother who hasn't seen her 7-year-old son since he was taken from her a month ago sued the Trump administration. Beata Mariana de Jesus Mejia-Mejia was released from custody while her asylum case is pending and thinks her son, Darwin, might be in a shelter in Arizona.\n"I only got to talk to him once and he sounded so sad. My son never used to sound like that, he was such a dynamic boy," Mejia-Mejia said as she wept. "I call and call and no one will tell me where he is."\n___\nColleen Long contributed from New York.\nCopyright 2018 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.}}
{{Monopoly is the classic Christmas board game, but it doesn’t have to be (Photo by Bruno Vincent/Getty Images)\nChristmas is a great time to play video games, but we all know that it’s also a time when your parents will drag you away from the screen to spend time with your family and play some board games instead.\nThis doesn’t have to be a bad thing, as plenty of video game fans are now including board games in their weekly gaming life, with plenty of fun and unique new releases in recent years.\nThere are many classics like Monopoly, Cluedo, Jenga, and Scrabble that some families get out every year, but there is a whole world of modern board games that have yet to make it as household names.\nBoard games are seeing increasing popularity as more and more exciting ideas are being produced, including the many games appearing on platforms such as Kickstarter – which has seen some games raise millions in crowdfunding.\nIf you’re looking for some new games to introduce to your family this year, here are some great alternatives to the classic family Christmas games.\nInstead of Monopoly play… The Resistance\nIndie Boards & Cards\nIf Monopoly sends your family spiralling into five hours of arguments and flipping tables, The Resistance can get you there much quicker and in a more exciting way.\nPlaying between five and 10 people, it makes you all join forces as resistance operatives with the aim of going on five missions to destroy the empire.\nThe bad news is that among you there are spies, who win the game by making sure you fail three of the five missions.\nIt’s a simple but clever game of tension that is full of lying and deceit, and sees plenty of accusations thrown across the table.\nThe Resistance is not for players who aren’t keen to bluff and being accused of lying to their family.\nOther suggestions: Secret Hitler, Ticket to Ride, and Pandemic\nInstead of Trivial Pursuit play… Wits & Wagers\n(North Star Games)\nTrivial Pursuit often sounds like a fun idea until your dad starts playing and smashes all of you with his unbeatable dad-knowledge.\nWits & Wagers makes it a more even game, firstly because all of the questions are number based, which makes them a lot easier to guess.\nSecondly, once everyone has written their answers down they are placed face-up in order from lowest to highest, and everyone then places bets on which answer they think will be the closest.\nPlayers can double, triple or even quadruple their money, depending on which answer they bet on.\nIt’s a game for three to seven players, but you can easily play as teams if you want to have more people involved.\nIt is a multi-award winning game that is accessible for all of the family to play.\nOther suggestions: Mr Lister’s Quiz Shootout, Timeline, and JackBox Party Pack\nInstead of Cluedo play… Deception: Murder in Hong Kong\nThe problem with Cluedo is the tedious moving around from room to room when the fun part of the game is ruling out suspects and making your decision of who did it.\nIt doesn’t really involve much detective work of looking at clues and trying to interrogate suspects.\nDeception: Murder in Hong Kong is a more exciting and faster game to play, and it can have up to 12 players.\nEach player is a suspect with their own collection of potential murder weapons and evidence laid out in front of them.\nOne player (who knows the murderer) then gives clues as to who the murderer is by using special tiles to suggest things like a possible murder location and the cause of death, which is based on the murderer’s chosen weapon and evidence.\nThe other players must then decide over three rounds who they think the murderer is and what weapon and evidence they think was used.\nOther suggestions: Dixit, Sherlock Holmes Consulting Detective, Exit: The Game\nInstead of Charades play… Concept\nCharades can be a fun game to play with your family after a few glasses of wine, but getting up and acting a fool isn’t for everyone.\nConcept eliminates the embarrassment aspect, but is still incredibly fun and can scale to a large group of people.\nInstead of using physical actions to give clues, you instead use a board where you place differently coloured cubes and icons to try and get across your word or phrase.\nIt can get incredibly frustrating when the clues go completely over the heads of your family, but it’s incredibly satisfying when someone finally spots what you’re trying to get across.\nOther suggestions: Monikers, Time’s Up, and World Slam\nInstead of Fallout play… Fallout: The Board Game\n(Asmodee/ Fantasy Flight games)\nYeah that’s right, Fallout has moved away from the video game world and has become its own board game, and it’s a pretty fun one too.\nAfter raising over $3m on Kickstarter, the Fallout board game has received high praise for being faithful to the main franchise.\nThis isn’t going to be a game for everyone and it might work better for Christmas with friends rather than family, as it’s hard to see nan playing Fallout on Christmas Day.\nIt’s got some wonderfully designed miniatures and the overall design and gameplay will satisfy any Fallout fan.\nOther suggestions: XCOM: The Board Game, This War of Mine, and Civilization: The Board Game}}
{{Film funding giant Telefilm Canada calls for "industry collaboration" from deal-makers to get women more gigs on big-budget movies.\nThere remains a large problem with the gender gap among Canada's directors, despite the government's push for parity.\nTelefilm Canada, the Canadian government's film financier, says the gender gap for local female directors, screenwriters and producers looking to work on big-budget films remains "significant." That's despite Justin Trudeau's government in Ottawa pushing for gender parity in the film business by 2020 amid industry rallying cries.\nTelefilm, releasing statistics for its latest 2017-18 fiscal year for movies it funds, indicates only 18 percent of its largest feature films last year with budgets over $2.5 million were directed by Canadian women. Sarah Polley's feature documentary Stories We Tell, Ann Marie Fleming's feature animation Window Horses and April Mullen's Below Her Mouth are among the indie movies made by top Canadian female directors in recent years.\nCanada's progress to close its industry gender gap, while "encouraging" and representing "positive change," says Telefilm, is comparable to a recent report by San Diego State University's Center for the Study of Women in Television and Film that indicated women held 18 percent of key behind-the-camera roles on Hollywood's top movies in 2017.\nCanadian female directors are mostly relegated to directing documentaries and other low-budget fare, Telefilm reported. As a measure of the male talent continuing to nab big budget gigs, Canadian female screenwriters got just 21 percent of Telefilm's slate last year, and female film producers grabbed just 31 percent of available financing.\nTelefilm's acting executive director Jean-Claude Mahe said his agency needs the local industry's help, especially from deal-makers and boardrooms, when it comes to giving women more opportunities on bigger-budget films. "We need the industry’s collaboration to increase the number of projects led by women in this budget realm," Mahe said in a statement.}}
{{Downtown Stamford hosts first Make Music Day\nSTAMFORD — A city known for its Alive@Five summer concert series is kicking off the season with its first all-day music festival.\nMake Music Day is a free celebration of music that will be held Thursday in more than 800 cities in 120 countries worldwide to mark the summer solstice.\nUnlike a typical musical festival, Make Music Day concerts are performed by anyone who wants to participate and enjoyed by anyone walking through the area. From classical to folk, hip-hop to opera, Latin jazz to punk rock, live music of all kinds resounds on streets, sidewalks, porches, plazas, parks, gardens, storefronts and other public spaces on the longest day of the year.\nSandy Goldstein, president of the Stamford Downtown Special Services District, said Stamford’s event will have more music and the most participants than any other city in the country.\nStamford’s event will be held from noon to 8 p.m. and will feature about 35 musicians playing a variety of genres, including jazz, Latin, hip-hop, gospel, pop, rock and reggae. They will perform at Columbus and Latham parks, the Stamford Art Association and Franklin Street Works, Old Town Hall, Stamford Town Center, Lorca Coffee Bar, 16 Handles, Tiernan’s Bar and Restaurant, and the Ferguson Library plaza.\n“We are really excited about the response from the musicians and the participants,” Goldstein said. “It’s just going to be a great, fun day filled with music in the streets.”\nThe event will also offer music lessons in a variety of instruments, including ukulele, guitar and harmonica. Harman and Stamford Downtown will host a street studio near the Ferguson Library.\n“This is meant to be a day where people can play music and perform and the public can walk through and enjoy the festivities,” Goldstein said. “And I hope the day will be one of joy and music and sunshine and feeling good about being in downtown Stamford.”}}
{{Ireland’s most beloved couple, Daniel and Majella O’Donnell recorded a special message for the people of Ireland this Christmas.\nThe pair sat down in front of TV3 cameras to share their thoughts on the rollercoaster year of 2016.\nFrom celebrity deaths to political upheavals, all the things that made 2016 one for the history books is analysed by the pair in their own unique way.\nOf course, Daniel being one of Ireland’s most revered entertainers, music plays a big part in his perspective.\nTake a look.}}
{{Taking a page from Carey and Corden, two Polish gay couples piled into a car to put their own spin on the Christmas classic ― with the aim of sending an inclusive message to their home country.\nTwo of the men, Jakub Kwiecinski and his partner, David, shot to viral fame in August after they repurposed Roxette’s “Some Other Summer” as a coming out anthem on YouTube. Since then, they’ve produced other music videos, including an LGBTQ-positive rendition of RedOne’s hit, “Don’t You Need Somebody.”\nIt has also moved to clamp down on public gatherings, placing in jeopardy the 2017 Warsaw Pride, which has previously drawn thousands of LGBTQ people and human rights advocates to the nation’s capital.\nAt the end of their video, all four men pledge solidarity with those protesters. Still, Kwiecinski told The Huffington Post that they want viewers to ultimately see the clip as a celebratory effort.\n“We want to show that although radicals have power in our country at the moment, they don’t represent our nation as a whole,” he said. “We want to give people some fun, and in the end, show what is really important for us.”\nAlways one to speak her mind, Mariah would definitey approve!}}
{{By Rob Wheary, Staff Writer • csrobwheary@gmail.com\nMILLERSBURG – When the Millersburg Area School Board worked on their 2016-2017 budget, they tried to be fiscally responsible with their funds and stay within budget, cutting costs and furloughing teachers.\nAfter learning of two different bills that will increase costs for the district, one that will see the district pay a $13,000 increase in a tuition, some board members expressed their displeasure about the state and federal government guidelines.\nOne item on the agenda at their Aug. 22 meeting was a new tuition agreement for a Millersburg Area School District student to receive special education services at the New Story school. After the budget was passed, district officials received notification that their tuition would increase from $280 to $350 a day. With a 180-day school year, Millersburg’s bill would be $63,000, an increase over the $50,400 the district paid last year.\nIn comparison, the new figure would provide the education of four or five children in regular classes.\nBusiness Manager Cathy Artz said the student is listed as needing a high level of assistance for learning, and per state and federal guidelines to provide a free and appropriate education to all students, Millersburg has no choice in the matter.\nBoard member Donald Harris was the most vocal on the matter, asking if any kind of inquiry on the matter was done.\n“Have we ever contacted anyone at the state level to make a complaint about us as a school having to do this?” Harris asked superintendent Thomas Haupt.\n“As a school, no,” Haupt said. “Special education is a topic of conversation that comes up in superintendents’ meetings all the time.”\nWhile respecting the fact that the decision has to be done for the education of the student, Harris hopes that some other organizations would take up the fight as well.\n“I would also like to see this school board make some kind of dedicated response to the superintendents’ organization, and the Pennsylvania School Board Association, to complain about this. This is ridiculous.”\nFollowing the discussion, the board voted 6-0 to approve the tuition agreement, with members Mark Rothermel, Scott Roadcap, Brett White, and Margaret Lebo, Harris and Ryan Novinger voting yes. Harris and Novinger in making their vote, said: “Reluctantly, yes.” Board Members Bruce Kance, Morgan Wagner and J. Bruce Walter were absent.\nAlong the same lines, school officials were informed over the summer the Geisinger Clinic would be increasing the cost of routine drug testing from $35 to $79.25 per test. Business manager Cathy Artz said the district would keep the same amount of money it’s budgeted for testing, and adapt their schedule. The service is used for random drug testing for students.\nThe motion for the laboratory services agreement was approved on a 6-0 vote.\nOther motions approved at the meeting included:\n— The board voted on a resolution to levy interim real estate taxes on 17 properties, five in Millersburg borough and 12 in Upper Paxton Township, based on increases in their assessed value resulting in new construction. The measure would raise $5,200 this year, and when at their full value of taxes next year, $15,000.\n— Transportation contracts were approved for the coming school year, with transportation being provided by the David Schlegel Transportation Company. Costs for transportation are as follows: regular transportation consortium and for students of the Northern Dauphin Christian School, $1,401.46 per day not to exceed 181 days; vo-tech students to the Dauphin County Technical School, at a cost of $95.32 per day; Amish school transportation at a cost of $199.15 per day and a special van run at a cost of $25.50 per day.\n— Three change orders for the district’s building project were approved totaling close to $3,000 were approved. Craig Zimmerman, building project manager, said that workers will be cleaning up the school this coming week to have it ready for the first day of school on Aug. 29.\n— The 2016-2017 ambulance services agreement with the Millersburg Area Ambulance Association was approved, for a fee of $1,000.\n— Resignations were approved for Karen Watts as a part-time learning support aide at Lenkerville Elementary School, Paul Everett as school security officer, Dr. David Ellis as district physician and Bethany Dearborn as a long-term substitute.\n— Hired at Monday’s meeting were Christina Lahr, of Herndon, as a K-3 learning support teachers at Lenkerville Elementary School, Brandi Riland, of Millersburg as a day-to-day substitute for third-grade teacher Noelle Conrad, and Crystal Romberger, of Millersburg, as a part-time kindergarten aide at Lenkerville Elementary School. The board also approved two reassignments, several supplemental contracts, the academic support tutors, leave requests, school security personnel, and the list of substitutes.\n— The list of bus drivers and bus stops and van routes for the 2016-2017 school year was approved.\n— When approving the school handbooks, Donald Harris hoped that in the future, the board will get a chance to see the books for more than four days before coming to the meeting to approved them, not going only by the recommendation of the administration and solicitor.\n— Several district policies were approved at the meeting, including policies for working periods for non-instructional employees, child abuse, public participation in board meetings, conflicts of interest and a policy to keep and administer doses of naloxone in the district. Naloxone is a new drug designed to reverse the overdose caused by an opioid drug, and the district will be provided the drug in both intranasal and auto-injector doses.}}
{{The Ottawa police guns and gangs unit is investigating after a man was shot in Old Ottawa East.\nIt happened just around 2 a.m., Saturday, at Harvey Street and Concord Street N.\nThe man his early 20s was shot in the thigh, according to paramedics.\nPolice officers applied a tourniquet to the man's leg at the scene before he was taken to hospital with non-life threatening injuries.\nPolice said the shooting appears to be targeted.\nNo one is in custody.}}
{{President Donald Trump indicated he would take action shortly to both improve security on the border and help keep families together, speaking briefly with reporters Wednesday.\nHe would be taking “preemptive” action as the White House and lawmakers scramble to deal with fallout over the adminstration’s “zero-tolerance” policy.\n“We’re looking to keep families together. Very important. We’re going to be signing an executive order. We are also going to count on Congress, obviously, but we are signing an executive order in a little while. We’re going to keep families together but we still have to maintain toughness or our country will be overrun by people, by crime, by all of the things that we don’t stand for and that we don’t want. So I’m going to be signing an executive order in a little while before I go to Minnesota but, at the same time, I think you have to understand, we’re keeping families together but we have to keep our borders strong. We will be overrun with crime and with people that should not be in our country,” President Trump said.\nHe also said he would be canceling the congressional picnic scheduled for Thursday because it didn’t feel right to go on as scheduled.\nWhite House aides have refused to comment on rumors of an executive order prior to Trump’s unscheduled remarks to reporters, and Republicans on Capitol Hill seemingly have no knowledge of a coming executive action. Trump and the White House have instead been pushing GOP lawmakers this week to pass legislation that deals with immigration reform.}}
{{TACOMA, Washington — After having packages repeatedly stolen from his porch, a Tacoma, Washington, man came up with a creative way to deter would-be thieves.\nAt first, Jaireme Barrow installed surveillance cameras. However, he told CNN’s Michael Smerconish on Saturday that no arrests were ever made despite footage of “at least 20” suspected thieves in action. That’s when he decided to take matters into his own hands.\nHis solution? An invention he calls TheBlankBox, which features a loud 12 gauge-shotgun blank.\n“It’s a blank triggering mechanism, only one moving piece,” Barrow told Smerconish.\n“Unless you count the guy running off your front porch, that is,” he added with a smile.\nBarrow demonstrated by placing an empty package box over the device. If anyone attempts to lift it, an enormous boom rings out, terrifying possible “porch pirates.”\n“It’s a blank shell. Just a loud noise,” Barrow said before showing Smerconish surveillance footage of people making a run for it after encountering his invention.\n“This thing is basically a viral video in a box,” Barrow said.\nBarrow said TheBlankBox is legal because “a blank shotgun shell is not considered an explosive,” and likened his invention to “any other alarm system.”\nCNN sought comment from Tocama Police spokeswoman Loretta Cool, but did not hear back in time for publication.\nA recent survey from InsuranceQuotes.com found that nearly 26 million Americans have had a holiday package stolen by so-called porch pirates.\nThat’s why, Barrow told Smerconish, “it’s awesome to be able to see karma served instantly.”\n“This is the only thing that has worked. It’s nice to see them leave empty-handed,” he said.}}
{{PALESTINIANS are preparing to celebrate Christmas in the West Bank city of Bethlehem, the historic birthplace of Jesus.\nSunday’s festivities are being held against the backdrop of protests over US President Donald Trump’s declaration of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.\nCamera Icon Palestinians dressed as Santa Claus wave national flags in front of the Israeli separation barrier during a protest in Bethlehem. Picture: AP/Nasser Shiyoukhi Picture: AP\nVatican officials crossed an Israeli military checkpoint from Jerusalem ahead of midnight Mass at the Church of the Nativity.\nHundreds of locals and foreign visitors gathered in Manger Square as bagpipe playing Palestinian Scouts paraded past the Christmas tree. Accompanying the decorations this year is a banner protesting Mr Trump’s Jerusalem declaration.\nCamera Icon Muslim protesters hold a picture of US President Donald Trump during a protest in Manila. Picture: AP/Aaron Favila Picture: AP\nMayor Anton Salman said he hopes this Christmas is especially festive, “because we want to show the people that we are people who deserve life, deserve our freedom, deserve our independence, deserve Jerusalem as our capital”.}}
{{She's known for her model figure and celebrity-loving lifestyle.\nAnd Lizzie Cundy, 46, celebrated her Christmas with A-list style after jetting off to the Maldives for some sunshine.\nThe former WAG who used to be married to footballer Jason Cundy, looked incredible in a very skimpy bikini which had a shiny finish.\nScroll down for video\nWow thing: Lizzie Cundy showed off her eye-popping assets in a tiny shiny bikini as she enjoyed Christmas on the beach in the Maldives on Christmas Eve\nThe former WAG who used to be married to footballer Jason Cundy, looked incredible in a very skimpy bikini which had a shiny finish\nAs she walked along the sands, she made sure not to get too much sun by wearing a kimono style cover-up.\nShe then whipped it off to reveal a hint of sideboob as she made her way down to the water.\nHer long hair cascaded down past her shoulders and she completed her look with a pair of sunglasses which had blue lenses.\nAll in the details: Her long hair cascaded down past her shoulders and she completed her look with a pair of sunglasses which had blue lenses\nStunning: As she walked along the sands, she made sure not to get too much sun by wearing a kimono style cover-up\nNice one: Then on Christmas day, the excitable lady shared a picture of herself with the hotel staff as well as Santa Claus himself\nLovely: She also shared this snap of herself wearing a funky pink bikini\nShe had a big smile on her face as she rinsed her hands in the water, before returning to her lounger to soak up some sun.\nThrowing her cover-up over the back of her lounger, she sat playing on her phone for a little bit before topping up her tan.\nThe day before, she uploaded a holiday snap of herself wearing a bright pink bikini to Instagram.\nLooking the part: Her kimono top had a floral design and a pretty tasselled hemline\nShe's done this before: Lizzie showed off her golden limbs as she walked around in the sunshine\nSea-ing is believing: Lizzie washed her hands in the water as she enjoyed a refreshing dip in the ocean\nShe captioned it with the words: 'Happy Christmas everyone from the Maldives!!” before teasing: “Off for a dip, you care to join me?'\nThen on Christmas day, the excitable lady shared a picture of herself with the hotel staff as well as Santa Claus himself.\nShe wrote: 'Merry Christmas everyone ! Let the party begin .. Santa has arrived ! @thesunsiyam #maldives.'\nMaking herself at home: Lizzie's beach looked rather deserted as she enjoyed some alone time\nGolden girl: Throwing her cover-up over the back of her lounger, she sat playing on her phone for a little bit before topping up her tan\nChecking in on her pals: She had her phone in hand as she sat with a big smile on her face}}
{{"American Dream" marks the studio return of the group, which took a hiatus in 2011. The album will be the band's first record since 2010's This Is Happening.\nLCD Soundsystem will support the album with a tour of the UK and Europe before hitting the U.S. in October. Tickets go on sale June 21. See the tracklist for the new effort here.}}
{{After an op-ed calling for Canada to abandon diversity and tolerance provoked outrage, Vancouver Sun and Province editor-in-chief Harold Munro published an apology Saturday, addressed staff on Monday, and issued a memo with proposed fixes to the system on Wednesday.\nIf he thought that would calm his newsroom, he was wrong.\nThe offending opinion piece, by Calgary college instructor Mark Hecht, argued Canada should “say goodbye to diversity, tolerance and inclusion” or risk unraveling as a society. It cited discredited reports by an anti-Muslim think tank.\nThe piece reportedly was greenlighted by Sun and Province editorial pages editor Gordon Clark without Munro’s sign-off. Almost as soon as it was published, many Sun and Province journalists condemned it on social media.\nNow Munro is taking direct fire internally from employees who don’t approve of how he has handled the controversy, and the slant of the paper he leads.\nAs a result, sources say, Munro has agreed to meet with a contingent of Sun and Province journalists, including some of the most senior and decorated, who wish to press for more changes at Vancouver’s two Postmedia-owned newspapers.\nOne staffer’s email to Munro, circulated widely to colleagues, called the top editor’s apology “weak and tepid” and “not enough.” Within hours more than a dozen fellow staffers had registered their support, hitting reply-all to place their displeasure on full display.\nHere is a verbatim transcription of most of the email, which The Tyee obtained not from the author.\n“I would like to stress that reading a blatantly racist op-ed of white nationalist talking points disgusted & infuriated me & has been very difficult trying to work since then. I do not feel that either your published apology or explanations to staff were adequate — nor do they adequately address the hateful racism so casually on display in our paper’s op-eds.\n“I have two suggestions:\n“1. When adding new members to the editorial board — please make sure they are people of colour. Adding more white people to the board will not help.\n“2. Oversight of the op-ed pages is clearly lacking or utterly absent. The retracted article was merely the latest in a series of ignorant, bigoted & racist op-eds that have been published on our site that I found in 30 minutes of browsing. You said that you hope people will judge us by the body of our work: well, here’s a sampling of it from the op-ed section:\n“Sept 6: Baldly racist op-ed that quotes known anti-muslim think tank & misrepresents research to call for an end to diversity — unless it’s white protestant diversity.\nhttps://vancouversun.com/news/local-news/apology-to-our-readers\n“Here’s a Gordon Clark article where he suggests we are letting in too many people into Canada.\nhttps://theprovince.com/opinion/columnists/gordon-clark-are-we-allowing-too-many-people-into-canada\n“September 5: Transphobic op-ed titled ‘Trans community should stop demonizing people’ which conflates a subset of aggressively vocal activists with the entire trans community.\nhttps://vancouversun.com/opinion/op-ed/cleta-brown-trans-community-should-stop-demonizing-and-silencing-people\n“July 22: Racist op-ed that claims — without any supporting evidence — that ‘foreigners’ are coming to Canada to illegally harvest salmon while on fishing tours in B.C.\nhttps://vancouversun.com/opinion/op-ed/robert-hauknes-its-a-disgrace-that-foreigners-are-being-given-a-priority-to-salmon-over-canadians\n“July 23: Climate Change denial op-ed — in 2019 — by someone ignorant enough to not understand the difference between weather and climate (but not too ignorant to be published in the Sun’s Op-Eds)\nhttps://vancouversun.com/opinion/op-ed/ross-mckitrick-reality-check-there-is-no-climate-emergency-in-vancouver\n“June 28: Islamophobic op-ed supporting bans on niqabs\nhttps://vancouversun.com/opinion/op-ed/calvin-white-ban-on-face-covering-niqab-isnt-an-attack-on-religious-expression\n“The logical fallacies & bigoted arguments in this article are similar to those found in a 2015 article by Gordon Clark where he mocks & otherwise denigrates Muslim women who wear a niqab.\nhttps://theprovince.com/opinion/gordzilla-in-the-city-niqab-offends-by-implying-you-think-youre-better\n“Harold, the apology you offered online is not enough. It was weak & tepid & five sentences long, when it should have been a full throated refutation of racism & bigotry. You should have explicitly stated that the piece was racist & promised that something like it would never be published again. And you should have announced — even without knowing how it would be executed — that moving forward the op-ed pages would reflect the voices of B.C. that are underserved, that are ignored & that face discrimination every day.”\nThe apology by Munro critiqued in the email is here.\nAnother staffer’s internal email to Munro yesterday, also shared widely in the newsroom, called for an “honest, transparent” accounting of what led up to the publishing of the Hecht piece. The staffer commended Munro on his Wednesday memo communicating “coming internal change.” But Saturday’s op-ed, “casually printed under a masthead that our names and our identities are connected with, was gutting.” The staffer noted "a personal friend” read it and, like many others “will have walked away this week… asking, ‘What happened to the Sun?’”\nThe staffer then asks, “So what happened to the Sun, Harold?”\nInside the Vancouver Sun after Anti-Immigrant Op-ed Debacle read more\nOthers are asking what will happen to Gordon Clark. So far, no word on whether he will remain editorial pages editor.\nJennifer Moreau, a representative of Unifor Local 2000, the union representing the Sun and Province newsroom, on Monday posted a message to workers stressing “ALL members deserve fair representation, and we take that duty VERY seriously, which is why we’re not rushing to judgment on this. That aside, we can definitely judge the contents of the editorial piece. It’s racist propaganda that cites a right-wing think tank best known for spreading anti-Muslim misinformation.”\nThe union is “investigating to find out what happened and how this racist column actually made it into print,” wrote Moreau.\nShe promised “a statement on the Vancouver Sun/Province editorial debacle… we’re waiting to get all our facts first.”\nAs of Thursday evening, Unifor had not issued a statement.\nEmails from The Tyee to Munro and Clark have gone unanswered.\nBelow is the memo Munro sent Wednesday to newsroom staff proposing changes which failed to quell anger in the ranks.}}
{{BARCELONA, Spain (AP) — A spectacular fire at a music festival in Spain forced the evacuation of over 20,000 concertgoers in Barcelona, the regional government said.\nImages showed towering flames consuming a large outdoor stage Saturday night at the “Tomorrowland” electronic music festival held at Barcelona’s Parc de Can Zam.\nBarcelona firefighters said there were no serious injuries during the concert evacuation but the event’s private security treated 20 people for minor injuries or anxiety.\nFirefighters are investigating the cause of the fire. The “Tomorrowland” website published a statement saying the “stage caught fire due to a technical malfunction.”\nThe festival in Barcelona was one of several offshoot events of a main “Tomorrowland” festival in Belgium. Organizers say the Barcelona event has been canceled following the fire.\nTomorrowland festival fire View as list View as gallery Open Gallery In this image made from video provided by David Belmonte, flames engulf the outdoor stage during the "Tomorrowland" electronic music festival in Barcelona, Spain, Saturday night, July 29, 2017. A spectacular fire at the music festival forced the evacuation of over 20,000 concertgoers, the regional government says. (David Belmonte via AP) In this image made from video provided by David Belmonte, flames engulf the outdoor stage during the "Tomorrowland" electronic music festival in Barcelona, Spain, Saturday night, July 29, 2017. A spectacular fire at the music festival forced the evacuation of over 20,000 concertgoers, the regional government says. (David Belmonte via AP) In this image made from video provided by David Belmonte, flames engulf the outdoor stage during the "Tomorrowland" electronic music festival in Barcelona, Spain, Saturday night, July 29, 2017. A spectacular fire at the music festival forced the evacuation of over 20,000 concertgoers, the regional government says. (David Belmonte via AP) In this image made from video provided by David Belmonte, flames engulf the outdoor stage during the "Tomorrowland" electronic music festival in Barcelona, Spain, Saturday night, July 29, 2017. A spectacular fire at the music festival forced the evacuation of over 20,000 concertgoers, the regional government says. (David Belmonte via AP)}}
{{BOSTON (WHDH/AP) — Immigrant activists rallied in front of the Massachusetts State House to protest President Donald Trump’s administration’s policy of separating immigrant children from their parents.\nThe Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition and other groups gathered at the State House steps Wednesday around 12:30 p.m. with signs. They planned to march into the government building as part of the protest.\nOrganizers say the rally is meant to call attention to the separation of families at the U.S.-Mexico border.\nGov. Charlie Baker spoke with 7News before the protests, saying that the current policy of separating children from their parents is “cruel and inhumane.”\n“I refuse to believe that there’s not a way to keep our borders secure and, at the same time, ensure that you don’t have to separate kids from their parents,” he said.\nHomeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen has drafted an executive action for Trump that would direct her department to keep families together after they are detained crossing the border illegally. She was at the White House where Trump told reporters he would be “signing something” shortly.\nOrganizers also hope that the rally urges Massachusetts lawmakers to approve protections for immigrants.\nThe state Senate passed a budget amendment that would, among other things, prohibit local police from asking someone about their immigration status unless required by law. But Baker has threatened to veto the measure.\n“No hate! No fear! Immigrants are welcome here!” pic.twitter.com/DMb8MTGGSx — Matt Rascon (@mrasconnews) June 20, 2018\n(Copyright (c) 2018 Sunbeam Television. The Associated Press contributed to this report. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.)}}
{{Deep Green Bush School has no classrooms, no structured lessons, and students get to use knives.\nBush teacher Joey Moncarz said there are no tests or bells "that tell them they have to go from one place to another".\n"The problem is people hear the word school, they think of all the schools they know. But there is no school like us anywhere in New Zealand, or for that matter anywhere in the world."\nThere are no electronics, instead a study plan that includes teaching knife skills.\nIt's the opposite of skills-based learning, which is why the school, based south of Auckland, focuses on qualities like independence.}}
{{Dear reader,\nThis is wishing you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year in advance.\nCompletesportsnigeria.com appreciates you for your loyalty – for always honouring us with your presence on this website, and trusting us always to serve you with top sports news updates and features from Nigeria and around the globe.\n'Play cautiously' as you enjoy this Christmas and other festivities. May God the Almighty preserve us all to see a brand new 2017, and live well through it, Amen.\nFrom:\nCompletesportsnigeria.com\n4years ago My wife left me,because i was too WEAK in bed,but today she calls me Bed Champion.Now i finally discovered a Natural Solution that forces women to ask for more. " - CLICK HERE To See My Breakthrough.\nMen, eat this fruit & you will get a bigger penis size.\nHow I Permanently Cured My Premature Ejaculation And Low Sperm Count Problem Without Any Side Effects Within 72hrs.And Confidently Last Over 35 Minutes Per Round In Bed.}}
{{Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nFight the temptation to stay in your light-up onesie fighting over the purple Quality Streets and blaming all your sprout-fuelled emissions on the dog.\nShake a leg, there’s a whole bunch of things you can do to avoid the\npost-Christmas slump...\n1 Boxing Day Walks\nYou could find a walk organised by the National Trust (nationaltrust.org.uk/events).\nSome are free, others are paid-for events, such as the early-bird 9.30-11.30am guided Boxing Day Walk, including breakfast bap and hot drink at the cafe.\nTons of walks are listed at nationaltrust.org.uk/lists/our-best-winter-walks or go to nationaltrail.co.uk.\n2 Boxing Day dip\n(Photo: Evening Gazette)\nSanta hats, Christmas jumpers and mankinis at the ready… how about an organised fundraising ‘swim’ (the only rule is you get your hair wet), such as the Boxing Day Dips in Redcar, Teesside and Cromer in Norfolk.\nWalk In The Sea, Teignmouth, Devon, involves heading straight into the sea and then walking straight out again.\nGet sponsored or pay £5 towards the Royal National Lifeboat Institution. There are fancy dress prizes and children can take part. teignmouthlifeboat.org\n3 See a show\n(Photo: Getty)\n“It’s behind you!” All the shenanigans of Christmas Day, that is.\nSo boo and hiss your way through an hour-and-a-half of cheesy gags, women dressed as boys and men relishing dressing as Widow Twanky.\nThe Big Panto Guide (bigpantoguide.co.uk) lists pantos by area. Or hit London’s West End.\n4 Have a game-athon\nThere are the golden oldies, such as Monopoly, Operation and last year’s sellout Pie Face, but there’s a whole host of newbies on the market.\nOur personal favourites this year are Sherlock Cluedo (£25, John Lewis), Blockbusters (£10, Marks & Spencer) and Obama Llama (£20, Amazon), a game of guess-the-celebrity’s most likely activity, eg who wants to Thump Trump? Erm, everyone?\n5 Turkey leftovers competition\nHow many things can you cook up with leftover turkey? At least 27 according to the BBC Good Food website. bbcgoodfood.com/recipes/collection/leftover-christmas-turkey.\nChallenge your relatives to a Great British Turkey Off and knock up a Boxing Day feast.\nChoose from Moroccan-spiced Turkey Pie, Turkey, Bacon and Avocado Mini Bagels and Perky Turkey Soup.\n6 Let’s go fly a kite…\n(Photo: Getty)\nOr go to the zoo, see a show, visit a playground.\nWork with the weather and check out netmums.com/local-to-you/whats-on/christmas-activities-and-events.\nTo gain some family-friendly inspiration close to home, you can search by postcode for easy ideas or events, such as Christmas markets, musicals or destinations.\n7 Go racing!\nDecember 26 is the feast day of Saint Stephen, the patron saint of horses. Race meetings take place nationwide.\nThere’ll be some betting but also a few mulled wines consumed. It’s a fun, sociable day out.\nPerhaps the most famous is The King George VI Steeple Chase, which takes place at Kempton Park in Surrey.\nGates open at 10am and the first race is at 12.40pm; entry from £12. kempton.co.uk\n8 Make cookies\n(Photo: age fotostock RM)\nUse a simple cookie dough (mix 280g plain flour, pinch nutmeg, cinnamon and spice, 200g butter, 100g sugar, two egg yolks), then use festive cutters/playdough shapes/a cup.\nMake a hole for a hanging ribbon if you like and bake at 200C for 20 minutes.\n9 Bag a bargain\n(Photo: Digital Vision)\nSome queues for the Boxing Day sales start in the wee small hours – the legend that is the Next sale typically kicks off at 6am.\nBear in mind, many sales will be online from Christmas Day. John Lewis, for instance, starts its winter clearance online on the 24th, and in stores tomorrow – the 27.\nSign up for sales alerts at vouchercodes.co.uk/top-sales.\n10 Make a dog’s Christmas\nLondon’s famous Battersea Dogs and Cats Home (open 27th) runs a Christmas blanket appeal (battersea.org.uk/support-us/other-ways-give/make-or-donate-goods).\nMany small local shelters welcome visitors armed with toys or blankets\nOr volunteer with the family. Maybe your kids could read to shy shelter dogs to bring them out of their shell – a trick that helps them get adopted. thedodo.com/kids-read-to-shelter-dogs\n11 Hit the flicks\n(Photo: Lucasfilm)\nThe big Christmas release is Rogue One: A Star Wars Story, the first of three stand-alone films.\nAlso out is Passengers (Jennifer Lawrence aboard a spaceship) and Monster Trucks (one for the kids).\nThe Christmas weepie is Collateral Beauty (out Friday) with Will Smith as a grieving dad, Helen Mirren as ‘Death’ and Kate Winslet as ‘Love’.\nThere’s also a host of Frozen sing-a-long/It’s a Wonderful Life reruns showing locally too. Check odeon.co.uk or cineworld.co.uk for listings.\n12 Christmas coffee treat\nHead out for shortbread and the biggest, most syrupy cuppa you can get your lips round.\nCosta does a Gingerbread Latte made with gingerbread syrup, whipped cream, gold stars and a Gingerbread Man on top (£3.20). Just forget the calories!\n13 Have a post-prezzie clear-out\nStrike while the iron is hot. If you need a home for all those toys, gadgets and clothes, becomingminimalist.com has some great tips on clearing the clutter.\nTake the 12-12-12 Challenge: find 12 items to throw away, 12 items to donate and 12 to be returned to their proper home.\nThat’s 36 things lighter.\nAnd eBay away – today’s a prime day for snapping up an unwanted Christmas present bargain and for ‘re-gifting’ yours. Fees and commission are usually reduced too.\n14 Get your skates on\n(Photo: Mirrorpix)\nNothing says twinkly romantic Christmas – or laughing your socks off in hysterics because you can’t get up – like outdoor ice skating. Brighton’s Royal Pavillion, Somerset House in London, Edinburgh’s St Andrew Square, Manchester’s London Road Fire Station rink, the Ice Factor in York and the Cardiff Ice Rink are among some of the best.\n15Strike it lucky\nUnleash your pent-up tension with a game of bowling. Finally get to say, “One strike and you’re out!” to the kids and mean it.\nIt’s fun, it’s fast, it’s furious. Hollywood Bowl has nationwide venues – and these days you can wear your own soft-soled shoes.\nThe online price for a family game £20.76. hollywoodbowl.co.uk\n16 Roll out the barrel\nRolling large wooden barrels on Boxing Day is officially a thing.\nTeams try to roll the empty barrels at top speed without injury to the crowds of spectators.\nIt’s a bit like the UK’s version of running with the bulls. Followed by liquid refreshment.\nRaces start at 12pm in Grantchester, Cambridgeshire. grantchester.info\n17 See the Christmas illuminations\nCheck out the best Christmas lights. Those in London’s Oxford Street and Regent Street are world famous.\nSurrey’s Kew Gardens lights up after dark with coloured laser beams over water, a Tunnel of Lights and a scented Fire Garden.\nYou can visit 5- 10pm, but it’s super-popular so you must pre-book (adult tickets from £18, evening/day entry £7.50). kew-org.\n18 Throw a barbie\nIn Australia it’s Christmas too. So we’re allowed.\nA barbecue will provide instant heat and make you feel that summer is just around the corner.\nStick to quick-cook foods like sausages, burgers, fish and vegetable kebabs.\nChop and prep in a warm kitchen then decamp outside for the final cooking. Keep the lid on.\nAdd toasted marshmallows and flasks of warming mulled wine or hot choc.\n19 Make thank you cards\nGet the kids busy with their gifts – wearing their thoughtfully crafted hat/scarf combo in the park or building a giant Lego castle.\nTake photos, then you can use a photo app such as Touchnote to send off speedy personalised ‘I love it!’ postcards.\nOr you could make some with potato prints/glitter/coloured card.\n20 Take in an exhibition\nAdventures in Moominland is the first major UK exhibition of all things Moomin.\nClamber through forests in the magical Moominvalley. Tickets from £13.50, Royal Festival Hall.\nIt’s part of London Southbank’s Winter Festival, which includes gigs, choirs, a circus, winter market and a 60m-high Starflyer fairground ride.\nThere’s no fee to just take in the atmosphere. southbankcentre.co.uk.\n21 Morris dance\nMorris dancing is as much of a Boxing Day tradition as a bust-up on EastEnders.\nClubs (known as sides) keep the 600-year-old Morris dance alive – it’s based on circles and processions.\nEach side has its own costume and a squire, and many have a ‘fool’ to amuse the audience.\nFind a free performance near you at themorrisring.org and search for ‘Christmas events’.\n22 Football time-out\nIf soccer is your thing, grab a bunch of friends/relatives and decamp to the pub for 90 minutes (give or take a few hours) to watch the festive Premiership offerings.\nSky Sports is showing Watford v Crystal Palace, kick-off 12.30pm, and Hull City v Manchester City, 5.15pm.\n23 Play crazy golf\nIf you’re not a member of a prestigious golf club, fear not. How about ‘Junk Golf’?\nManchester’s junkyard course has taken up residence for a few months in Piccadilly Place.\nThere are three nine-hole courses to choose from, with holes such as Steven Seagull and Out on a Limbo, with hot dogs, nachos and cocktails on the sidelines. T\nhere’s also one on Brick Lane in East London. See junkyardgolfclub.co.uk £9.50 per person.\n24 Have a night out\n(Photo: Getty)\nParty like it’s 2017 (nearly). If you’ve been cooped up and got more energy than a Duracell bunny, maybe you need to dance it off.\nDesignmynight.com lets you search by town/city for nights out near you, including Boxing Day parties.\nThere are pubs, clubs, bars, restaurants and events listed.\nThe good news is you can sleep in tomorrow as it’s another bank holiday. Yay!\n25 Love a duck (race)\n(Photo: Birmingham Post and Mail)\nThe small picturesque Warwickshire town of Kenilworth unleashes 1,500 rubber ducks in a charity river race across Abbey Fields.\nTickets to back a duck cost £1, and there are prizes of up to £100. The ducks\nare freed into the water at midday. kenilworthlionsclub.co.uk\n26 Argue the toss about what Boxing Day actually means\nNot a day when family members threaten to punch each other’s lights out.\nNo, the Oxford English Dictionary traces it back to the 1830s as a holiday for “postmen, errand boys and servants”.\nHaving waited on their masters on Christmas Day, servants were allowed the next day to visit their families.\nThey would take home a ‘Christmas box’ of gifts, bonuses and leftover food. Now you know!}}
{{To most people, Christmas cards are a lovely way to let your loved ones know you're thinking of them over the holiday season.\nBut one irate British mother has revealed her own influx of cards from friends has left her miffed, rather than moved.\nMumsnet user CJT110 asked if she was being unreasonable for being annoyed when she receives Christmas cards addressed to her first name only, rather than her full name.\nShe called it a 'shoddy' approach on the online forum, and insisted it was not formal enough for a Christmas card.\nBut fellow parents, surprised by her attitude, suggested she should simply 'get a grip'.\nMumsnet user CJT110 said she doesn't like getting Christmas cards that addresses her and her husband by their first names\nCJT110 said she had received two cards from friends that addressed her and her husband by their first names, rather than calling them Mr and Mrs followed by their first name and surname.\nShe posted: 'It really gets on my nerves. You know my last name. You've known it for f**king years!\n'Am I being unreasonable to think it's shoddy, and weird, not to address a card properly?'\nShe later said that she believes writing Christmas cards is supposed to be 'formal'.\nThe mother said she finds it 'shoddy' and wants people to address her 'properly'\n'I just wouldn't ever think of addressing to just ''Mary and John'',' she added.\nOther Mumsnet users were shocked by her post, with one telling her she needs to 'get a grip'.\nJinglebells99 posted: 'Jeez that's a lot of angst over a card! Would you have preferred it if they hadn't bothered sending one at all?'\n'Your lovely friends, presumably with whom you are on a first name basis, sent you a card. And you're p****d off because it wasn't formally addressed?' Miniloco commented.\nOther Mumsnet users were shocked by her admission, with one telling her to 'get a grip'\nSugarPlumFerry wrote: 'Are you for real? Your good friends cared enough about you to send you card and you're judging their letter addressing skills? perhaps got back to bed and try again.'\nBut others gave an explanation why people might write the cards using just first names.\nThey explained that they might not know which titles the recipient goes by so use their first names to avoid offending them.}}
{{By -\nBy the winter of 1982, we had been going to the Harbourfront Antique market every Sunday for about a year, and were making a pretty good living selling things we had bought at local auctions and garage sales. Then one day, I read in the excellent and entertaining “bible” of Antique dealing “The Furniture Doctor” by George Grotz , that the village of Defoy, Quebec was mecca for the antique picker. To quote “there’s a wonderful secret wholesale place up in the province of Quebec. It’s the tiny town of Defoy. Only a gravel road from the main highway, but about a half a mile down there is the wonderful “antiques dump” of Rene Boudin and his freres. And here under enormous sheds you will find literally acres of antique furniture, chests, and tables piled three to five pieces high”.\nView Larger Map\nThe book had been out quite awhile so there was no telling if this situation still existed, so I asked the old guys at the market if they knew of such a place. I got several reports of it’s glory days, followed by “of course that was years ago and nobody goes anymore. That being said they also all encouraged me to give it a go, and gave me “leads”as to who may still be active. We gathered up our courage, our baby, and what cash we had, and set off.\nThat first twelve hour drive felt like an eternity. It was a tired crew who pulled in late afternoon to a tiny motel in Victoriaville, Quebec. Our first move was to look up Marcel Gosselin in the phone book because he was one of our most promising leads. To our delight he was listed, and he answered and told us where and how to come the next morning. It wasn’t hard to find because it was near town, and his name was painted boldly on the barn. Marcel greeted us warmly and proceeded to lead us to his main barn. There, behind the red and white cross doors was the biggest pile of dining chairs I had ever seen. About thirty feet across it reached to the top of the barn. Through the hatch work of legs I could see tantalizing glimpses of a cupboard and some chests. Then he took us upstairs where in a loft he had sorted hundreds of chairs in sets of four, six, or more. Some were painted and some varnished. It was $45cdn each for simple painted chairs, $65cdn each for nicer pressbacks and/or varnished ones. We got a couple of sets knowing we would get about $150cdn-$250cdn each for these when refinished., Next I asked him about that cupboard I had seen in the giant pile downstairs. He told me all about it including the age, condition and reasonable price of $250cdn and told me he would extricate it and have it ready for my next trip if I wanted it. I said I did, and then he didn’t even want a deposit.\n“That’s not the way we do it down here. Your word is good enough, until it isn’t. I liked him immediately and knew he was a man I would enjoy doing business with. Next he took us to the garage attached to his 100 year old frame house. The downstairs was filled with every kind of “smalls” including small boxes, glassware, pottery, antique clothing, folk art, etc, etc; and the tiny, about to collapse, upstairs loft was filled with hundreds of pottery washsets. There were some beauties, and this was a hot item at the time in Toronto. Prices ranged from $45cdn-$75cdn per set. We bought 8 of the nicest sets knowing we would get between $145cdn to $375cdn back home. This was getting truly exciting. We spent a terrific four hours or so with Marcel that first day and pulled away from his place, with half our money spent, and half our truck full of interesting, excellent quality, and reasonably priced stuff, not to mention the overwhelming sense of warmth, excitement and wonderment of that first glimpse into a Quebec picker’s life. We were hooked, and we knew it was the first of many more trips to see Marcel. For the Silo, Phil Ross.\nFeatured image courtesy of tourismecentreduquebec.com Originally published in The Silo print edn. Spring 2012.}}
{{GLENDALE – On Sunday, September 10, Al and Diane Cabraloff hosted the ‘Armenian Educational Foundation’s Friends of the Foundation Donor Appreciation Dinner’ in their elegant Pasadena home with more than 120 guests in attendance.\nThe purpose of the gathering was twofold; for AEF to express its appreciation and gratitude to the invited guests for their continued support through sponsorships and donations for the various AEF programs, and to honor Neshan Peroomian for his immense contributions to AEF’s renovation projects.\nVahe Hacopian, AEF board president, was the MC, who thanked the guests for the $175,000 pledges in sponsorships leading up to the evening, and briefly described the ongoing programs that were to benefit from the funds raised. He specifically thanked Bobken and Hasmik Amerian, the night’s $25,000 Diamond sponsors, for their continued contributions year after year to support AEF programs. The Amerian’s have been longtime AEF members and Bobken has served on the Board of Directors.\nNeshan Peroomian was honored with the AEF Life Time Achievement Award, for his more than 40 years of outstanding contributions to the Armenian Educational Foundation as a member, 36 years of which he has served as a board member, and past president. He was recognized for his tireless efforts over the past 20 years in leading the 200 renovations projects of schools in the border villages of Armenia, Artsakh and Javakhk.\nAlso, the guests viewed a touching short video from Armenia, prepared by a group of students from the 235 AEF scholarship recipients who attend various universities and colleges. These very articulate students expressed their deepest gratitude to their sponsors for giving them a college education and more importantly, for giving them hope.\nFor 67 years, AEF has provided financial support to Armenian students and educational institutions. Since 2000, AEF has disbursed $7.2M for various education related programs and projects in the United States, Armenia, Artsakh, Javakhk, Syria and Lebanon.\nAEF congratulates Neshan Peroomian and extends its most sincere appreciation to the Cabraloffs, the Amerians, all those who attended, to its membership, to the generous donors and sponsors for making the evening a great success. Helping Armenian students reach their dreams and have brighter futures will continue to be a major goal and focus for the AEF membership.}}
{{CTV Kitchener\nWaterloo Regional Police are looking to identify a man who has reportedly been seen behaving suspiciously in Cambridge’s south end.\nThey say the man has been seen following high-school aged girls around the area of Churchill Drive and Brant Road.\nThere have been three reports of the suspicious man since last Friday, all occurring between 7 and 7:30 a.m.\nPolice describe the man as white, 6’1”, heavyset and likely in his mid-30s, with short, brown hair.\nThey say that during one incident, he was seeing wearing a maroon-coloured shirt, khaki shorts, white shoes, white socks and a black backpack.}}
{{Tunis/Tunisia — A 37-year-old man involved in the migrant shipwreck off the island of Kerkennah, governorate of Sfax, was arrested, the Interior Ministry Wednesday announced.\nEighty-four people died when the boat capsized on June 2.\nThe man, living in Kerkennah, said he provided food to at a least 50 crossers from Tunis and Gabes for a sum of five thousand dinars.}}
{{A musical adaptation of the 2004 film "Mean Girls" is one step closer to becoming a reality as the show's complete cast has just been confirmed.\nThe cast will be led by Erika Henningsen as Cady Heron, a teenager who moves to North Shore High School after having been home schooled by her parents while living in Africa, Entertainment Weekly confirmed. She will be joined by Taylor Louderman as Regina George, Ashley Park as Gretchen Weiners and Kate Rockwell as Karen Smith.\nFor those who are unfamiliar, Regina is the leader of a well-known group called the Plastics. She is controlling, deceiving, belittling and mean. She is also capable of doing everything in her power to get what she wants.\nRegina, who is also known as the Queen Bee, is followed around everywhere by her best friends, Karen and Gretchen. The former is the eyes and ears of the group, while the latter is viewed the dumbest girl in North Shore High School.\nIn addition to the above-mentioned characters, Barret Wilbert Weed and Grey Henson have been cast as Cady's best friends, Janis Ian and Damian Leigh. Kyle Selig, Rick Younger, Kerry Butler and Cheech Manohar will play Aaron Samuels, Mr. Duvall, Ms. Norbury and Kevin Gnappor, respectively.\nAdvertisement\nThe musical adaptation of "Mean Girls" will be directed by Casey Nicholaw ("Aladdin," "The Book of Mormon") with the book written by Tina Fey. It will be produced by Lorne Michaels ("Saturday Night Live") in collaboration with Broadway veteran Stuart Thompson ("The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time").\n"We want to. I would love to," said Fey, 47, of adapting the 2004 film for the stage. "I'm trying to develop it with my husband [Jeff Richmond], who does all the music for '30 Rock,' and I think Paramount's onboard."\nThe musical adaptation of "Mean Girls" is set to make its world premiere at the National Theatre in Washington, D.C. on Oct. 31.}}
{{CALGARY, Alberta, July 17 (Reuters) - Canadian crude prices edged higher on Wednesday, although some market players said planned testing on an Enbridge Inc pipeline in coming weeks could see synthetic grades come under pressure.\nEnbridge is planning to shut Line 14, a 318,000 barrel per day pipeline that carries mainly light Canadian crude to Chicago area refiners, on two separate occasions for six days from Aug. 24 and Sept. 2 to conduct hydrostatic tests.\nThat shutdown could see the price of synthetic grades weaken if supply gets bottlenecked in Canada.\nLight synthetic crude from the oil sands for August delivery was last trading at $3.75 per barrel above the West Texas Intermediate benchmark, according to Shorcan Energy brokers.\nThat compares with a settlement price of $2.90 above WTI on Tuesday.\n“I think we will start to see more of an impact towards the end of the month. The market has probably known about that (shutdown) well in advance and people have already scheduled cargoes around it,” said Martin King, an analyst at FirstEnergy Capital in Calgary.\nWestern Canada Select heavy blend for August delivery last traded at $16.00 per barrel below WTI, compared with a settlement price of $16.40 per barrel below the benchmark on Tuesday.}}
{{SANDRINGHAM, England (Reuters) - Britain’s Queen Elizabeth, 90, missed a traditional Christmas church service on Sunday for the first time in decades due to a heavy cold, a Buckingham Palace spokesman said.\nElizabeth, the world’s longest-reigning living monarch, and her husband Prince Philip, 95, suffering what the Palace described as heavy colds this week, delayed by a day the journey to their Sandringham country residence in eastern England. They traveled instead by helicopter on Thursday.\nThe queen has attended the Christmas service at the parish church of St Mary Magdalene in Sandringham every year since the family started celebrating Christmas there in 1988.\nBefore then, the family spent Christmas at Windsor where Elizabeth attended a service since the mid-1960s. It was unclear when Elizabeth last missed a Christmas Day service, if ever.\nPhilip was driven to church in Sandringham on Sunday and walked in unaided from a Range Rover, a Reuters photographer said, while Prince Charles, heir to the throne, walked to the church with his wife Camilla and other members of the family.\n“The Queen continues to recover from a heavy cold and will stay indoors to assist with her recovery,” a Palace spokesman said. “Her Majesty will participate in the Royal Family Christmas celebrations during the day.”\nElizabeth’s other children, Anne, Andrew and Edward attended along with Prince Harry, Charles’s second son. Prince William, second-in-line to the throne, is spending Christmas with the parents of his wife, Kate.\nAfter more than six decades on the throne, the Queen has cut back on international tours but still regularly performs official duties around Britain, although she said on Tuesday she would reduce such visits.\nWhile Elizabeth’s father, George VI, died at the relatively young age of 56, her mother, who was known as Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, lived until 101 and was still appearing in public almost up until her death in 2002.\nBoth the Queen and Prince Philip’s good health has allowed them to remain very much in the public eye, despite their age. Elizabeth has maintained the popularity of the monarchy despite years of political, social and cultural change since she became Queen Elizabeth II on Feb. 6, 1952, aged just 25.\nThe Times reported on Wednesday that Philip carried out more public engagements last year than did his grandsons William and Harry, and William’s wife Kate combined.\n(Writing by Guy Faulconbridge; Editing by Louise Ireland)}}
{{TORONTO (Reuters) - Canadian marijuana stocks rose on Wednesday after the country became the first major economy to legalize its recreational use, but earlier rallies in anticipation of victory in the key upper house vote muted some post-approval gains in the sector.\nSmoke rises during the annual 4/20 marijuana rally on Parliament Hill in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, April 20, 2018. REUTERS/Chris Wattie\nCanada’s Senate voted 52-29 on Tuesday in favor of a revised bill from the elected House of Commons, paving the way for a fully legal cannabis market within eight-to-12 weeks following a final sign-off from the country’s governor general in the next few days.\n“The legislation... marks a wholesale shift in how our country approaches cannabis,” Jody Wilson-Raybould, minister of justice and attorney general of Canada told reporters on Wednesday. “It leaves behind a failed model of prohibition, a model that has made organized crime rich and left our young people vulnerable.”\nShares of Canopy Growth Corp, Canada’s biggest marijuana producer by market value, jumped as much as 6 percent to a new high, before giving back most of those gains.\nAurora Cannabis Inc and Aphria Inc, the second- and third-biggest producers, climbed as much as 6.4 percent and 4.6 percent, respectively, in early trade before moderating gains.\nThe Horizons Marijuana Life Sciences ETF had soared 143 percent since its April 2017 inception to a January peak, but has since retreated 25 percent from there. On Wednesday, it climbed as much as 3.9 percent and was trading 1.7 percent higher at C$19.27.\n“Most of the buying was done ahead of time,” said Jason Zandberg, research analyst at PI Financial. “If an event is built in and there’s no follow-on catalyst they tend to sell off on the news. This is all very positive.”\nCanadian cannabis producers have been an investor favorite ahead of the country’s plan to legalize recreational marijuana use, as well as some international approvals of medical cannabis. Some gains have moderated recently over concerns they had become overvalued, delays to legislation that was originally expected to take effect by July, and strict rules around supply and branding.\n“This is a historic milestone for our industry and for our country ... as Canada solidifies its progressive leadership on cannabis,” Vic Neufeld, chief executive officer of Aphria said in an e-mailed statement.\nBut not all are cheering the broad legalization. More than half of Canadian employers are worried about its potential impact on their workplaces, according to a report by the Conference Board of Canada. Their biggest concerns include safety, impairment and increased use of marijuana by employees, the report found.}}
{{When just 7 years old, Betty Kwan Chinn lived homeless on the streets of Kai Ping, China, with nearly all her immediate family imprisoned or sent to labor camps by Mao Zedong’s Cultural Revolution in the 1960s. President Barack Obama presented the Presidential Citizens Medal to her in 2010 for her work of more than 20 years feeding and caring for the homeless and less fortunate of Humboldt County. Shaun Walker — The Times-Standard\nIf you go What: Old Town Community Alliance holiday community meal When: Noon to 3 p.m., Dec. 25 Where: Old Town gazebo at 2nd and F streets in Eureka\nA new organization invites everyone to come down to the Old Town gazebo on Christmas afternoon for a shared meal and a celebration of community.\n“We’re brand stinking new,” Samantha Sweeney said about the organization she founded this year, the Old Town Community Alliance.\nLast winter Sweeney had an apartment but no money or job. As she hunted for a job she had to rely on her friends for support and help to make it through that rough time.\n“So homelessness became a new reality to me,” Sweeney said.\nShe’s now employed and made a comeback from living on the edge of housing insecurity. With her newfound perspective and appreciation for the struggles of disadvantaged people on the street she decided to found the Old Town Community Alliance. Its first event was on Thanksgiving.\n“We fed 50 people and gave away 300 pairs of socks,” Sweeney said. “It came together so effortlessly I started thinking about Christmas.”\nSo in early December she started an online fundraiser.\n“We’ve raised about $1,000 and have a running total of about 50 volunteers,” Sweeney said.\nBy Saturday afternoon, 27 people donated a total of $1,086 out of the $2,000 goal in just 17 days.\nSweeney said she’s been inundated with calls from people interested in helping serve food.\n“My phone is absolutely exploding right now,” she said.\nSweeney set up the fundraiser to pay for the food but community food donations have also come pouring in. So much so that she’s putting all the funds raised online toward buying warm clothes to give out.\n“It’s kind of turned into a Christmas day barbecue and in addition to that it’s a clothing drive,” Sweeney said about the event. “I can go to Costco with X amount of dollars and buy a whole bunch of socks.”\nRaised funds not spent on this event will go toward the next Old Town Community Alliance event, Sweeney said.\n“Whatever’s leftover will roll over. I’m not going to stop,” she said.\nSweeney is relatively new to the community meal game. The Eureka Rescue Mission, St. Vincent de Paul Society and Betty Chinn have been serving free meals for years.\nBetty Chinn and the Rescue Mission served their Christmas meals Saturday. A Christmas meal will be served at the St. Vincent de Paul free dining facility on West 3rd Street from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Christmas Day.\nDonations to the Old Town Community Alliance can be made at gofundme.com/holiday-community-meal.\nAdvertisement\nMore information can be found at facebook.com/oldtowncommunityalliance or by emailing oldtowncommunityalliance@gmail.com\nHunter Cresswell can be reached at 707-441-0506.}}
{{In the era of primal Trump, West Wing advisers have been bracing for the moment when Donald Trump instigates a moral and political crisis from which the White House can’t recover. The current situation, with its heartbreaking images of migrant families being separated on the southern border, and children interned in camps and kept in cages, might be that moment. There are echoes of Charlottesville, with the president digging himself deeper, even as the midterms loom. “This is brutal,” said one Republican close to the president. “Trump is riding high in the polls, and it’s playing into his mental state that he’s invincible.”\nTrump’s decision to double down on the family-separation policy is sowing chaos in the West Wing, two sources close to the White House told me. For the second day in a row, Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders—already eyeing an exit, though not for months—did not hold an on-camera briefing with reporters. “She’s tired of taking on water for something she doesn’t believe in,” a friend of Sanders told me. “She continues to have a frustration that the policies are all over the map,” another person close to her said. “It’s not a good look for Sarah.” According to sources, if Sanders were to leave earlier than expected, Trump is high on former Fox & Friends anchor Heather Nauert, who’s currently the State Department spokesperson, to be his next press secretary. “Trump loves her,” one former administration official said. (The White House did not respond to a request for comment.)\nMeanwhile, as the border crisis spirals, the absence of a coordinated policy process has allowed the most extreme administration voices to fill the vacuum. White House senior policy adviser Stephen Miller has all but become the face of the issue, a development that even supporters of Trump’s “zero-tolerance” position say is damaging the White House. “Stephen actually enjoys seeing those pictures at the border,” an outside White House adviser said. “He’s a twisted guy, the way he was raised and picked on. There’s always been a way he’s gone about this. He’s Waffen-SS.”\nMaking matters worse, Trump doesn’t seem to have an end game for the inhumane policy that is opposed by two-thirds of Americans. He’s continued to blame Democrats for allowing immigrants to “infest” the country; while in a closed-door meeting Tuesday night with congressional Republicans, he called on them to end family separation and “fix” the immigration system. He’s effectively boxed himself into a corner. “He doesn’t like this policy, and he knows it’s not helping him,” a Republican who’s spoken with him said. “But he can’t get within him that this is a problem, and he needs to take ownership of it.”}}
{{Warden Owen McCarron said the county is still waiting to hear back from the Nova Scotia Department of Transportation and Infrastructure Renewal in regards to the Beech Hill intersection. The Warden said the department did a traffic study on the busy intersection, noting council was told the study is at the executive level at the […]}}
{{Tiffany Eichler was branded a ‘professional predator’ as she escaped jail for molesting three school boys (Picture: Stark County Jail)\nA PE teacher who summoned a schoolboy to her office for sex after class has been branded a ‘professional predator’ by the mother of one of her victims.\nTiffany Eichler was blasted as she was sentenced to 30 days jail Tuesday, although she will not serve any time for her crimes against the three male students.\nWoman 'stole boyfriend's Hummer with him clinging to roof after he rejected her proposal'\nEichler, who taught at McKinley High School in Canton, Oh., apologized to her victims in a ‘frail’ voice, according to CantonRep, saying that she ‘regretted putting everyone in this position.’\nHer attorney Brad Iams told Stark County Common pleas court that she’d wrecked her career and made herself a target for public humiliation.\nEichler was also sentenced to 30 half-days in a non jail reporting program, three years probation, counselling, 300 hours of community service, a $1,000 fine and counseling costs for her victims.\nShe admitted abusing one of the schoolboys in her office after classes had finished for the day (Picture: Tiffany Eichler/Facebook)\nEichler, 36, pleaded guilty to three counts of sexual battery Wednesday after having at least four sexual encounters with the three boys between January and March this year.\nAdvertisement\nAdvertisement\nAccording to News5Cleveland, Eichler, of Canton, Oh., called one of the three to her office at McKinley High School after lessons had finished to have sex with him.\nShe bedded one of the other boys twice in one day – once in the back seat of her car, and later in the basement of his family’s home.\nEichler had sex with the third boy in her car at a park after picking him up during parent teacher conferences, police said. Her victims’ ages are not known.\nAfter she was arrested, police said the boy Eichler slept with in her car and his family’s home contacted her asking if she could buy him antibiotics.\nMcKinley High School in Canton, Oh., where Eichler worked (Picture: Google Maps)\nHer crimes emerged in early March after the student she slept with twice began blackmailing Eichler, saying his sister had found out what they’d done, and that he needed to pay her off to keep quiet.\nThat prompted the teacher to contact the school’s security officer, who in turn got in touch with police, and she resigned from her job at the end of March.}}
{{Remembering our old school-style parents at Christmas\nIt occurred to me that like millions of lower- to middle-class American families back in the day, my parents did an awesome job at Christmastime. With little money, they always found a way to give their kids happy Christmases. As the nine-year-old eldest, I babysat my four siblings. I knew that Mom and Dad did not have a lot of money. And yet I never thought we were poor or felt shortchanged at Christmas. I don't remember my three brothers and sister ever feeling shortchanged at Christmas. How awesome is that? Given their financial challenges, my parents had to be magicians to pull off that trick. Somehow, they performed their magic every year. I kind of took it for granted. Looking back, all I can say is "wow!"\nThe arrival of the Montgomery Ward catalog was a major exciting event. Each of us kids circled the toys we wanted for Christmas. I remember my Roy Rogers pistol and holster. On Christmas Day, I left my pistol outside for a moment. When I came back, it was gone. Mom was extremely annoyed at me. I felt that my Aunt Bummie and her five sons living on welfare were poor. Mom, Dad, we five kids, Aunt Bummie, and her five boys sat around a table, feasting on a mountain of fried chicken necks and backs. They were dirt-cheap to buy. We laughed, joked, and had a wonderful time. God has blessed me to travel the world, enjoying numerous five-star dining experiences. I still love fried chicken necks and backs. One Christmas, when we were still living in the Baltimore government housing project, I found a used bicycle hidden deep in the closet. I knew that the bike was my Christmas present. I was elated because I knew that Mom and Dad could not afford it. Mom was disappointed that I had seen the bike. I told her I was a big boy and wanted to help her and dad play Santa, setting up the gifts Christmas Eve for my younger siblings. She said, "Okay". Then there was the Christmas we could have died. In 1952, the restriction of blacks being allowed to take the test to become Baltimore City firefighters ended. Dad became a firefighter. We moved out of the projects. My parents purchased a home in a small black suburban community, Pumphrey, Maryland. It was Christmas Eve. Dad had to work the night shift at the fire house. Mom decided to paint a room with oil-based paint. Dad came home 7 A.M. Christmas morning to find us all passed out. He rescued us by carrying us to the front porch. We recovered and opened presents. My wife Mary said her parents were pretty awesome as well. They always found a way to make room and feed relatives in need. Mary's immediate family consisted of her parents and three siblings. And yet Mary recalls washing dishes for as many as eleven people living in their home. She has wonderful childhood Christmas memories – although she has been scarred for life regarding washing dishes. Mary cooks, and I wash the dishes. Our kitchen remodel will include a dishwasher. Old-school American parents were awesome. They were responsible early in their adulthood, doing whatever needed to be done. My Baby-Boomer generation seems to be pretty spoiled and self-focused. At 29 years old, my dad had fathered his five kids and tried to be a stand-in father and role model for my Aunt Bummie's five boys. They loved my dad and envied me for having him. I'm getting choked up. Mom passed away 20 years ago. I'll see my 89-year-old dad at our family's annual Christmas Eve gathering. I will call for a toast to Dad, thanking him and Mom for all the great Christmases. Have a very merry Christmas and a happy and blessed new year! Lloyd Marcus, The Unhyphenated American\nHelp Lloyd spread the Truth: http://bit.ly/2yaHw50\nhttp://LloydMarcus.com}}
{{Since his exposure on network television during the Stanley Cup Finals (which the Washington Capitals won in five games), some visitors to The Venetian — people he has never seen — ask to ride in his gondola through the man-made waterway outside the resort along Las Vegas Boulevard.}}
{{Fans arrive at the Eurovision Song Contest 2017 Grand Final at the International Exhibition Centre in Kiev, Ukraine, May 13, 2017. REUTERS/Valentyn Ogirenko\nFrance's Alma performs with the song 'Requiem' during the Eurovision Song Contest 2017 Grand Final Dress rehearsal 1 at the International Exhibition Centre in Kiev, Ukraine, May 12, 2017. REUTERS/Gleb Garanich\nUnited Kingdom's and Ukraine's fans take selfie before the Eurovision Song Contest 2017 Grand Final at the International Exhibition Centre in Kiev, Ukraine, May 13, 2017. REUTERS/Valentyn Ogirenko\nFans take selfie before the Eurovision Song Contest 2017 Grand Final at the International Exhibition Centre in Kiev, Ukraine, May 13, 2017. REUTERS/Valentyn Ogirenko\nPoland's Kasia Mos performs the song 'Flashlight' during the Euro-vision Song Contest 2017 Grand Final at the International Exhibition Centre in Kiev, Ukraine, May 13, 2017. REUTERS/Gleb Garanich\nBulgaria's Kristian Kostov performs with the song 'Beautiful Mess' during the Eurovision Song Contest 2017 Grand Final Dress rehearsal 1 at the International Exhibition Centre in Kiev, Ukraine, May 12, 2017. REUTERS/Gleb Garanich\nPortugal's Salvador Sobral performs with the song 'Amar Pelos Dois' during the Eurovision Song Contest 2017 Grand Final Dress rehearsal 1 at the International Exhibition Centre in Kiev, Ukraine, May 12, 2017. REUTERS/Gleb Garanich\nItaly's Francesco Gabbani performs with the song 'Occidentali's Karma' during the Eurovision Song Contest 2017 Semi-Final 1 Dress rehearsal 1 at the International Exhibition Centre in Kiev, Ukraine, May 8, 2017. REUTERS/Gleb Garanich\nFans arrive at the Eurovision Song Contest 2017 Grand Final at the International Exhibition Centre in Kiev, Ukraine, May 13, 2017. REUTERS/Valentyn Ogirenko\nPortugal's Salvador Sobral celebrates with team during the voting at the Eurovision Song Contest 2017 Grand Final at the International Exhi-bition Centre in Kiev, Ukraine, May 13, 2017. REUTERS/Gleb Garanich\nPortugal's Salvador Sobral celebrates after winning the grand final of the Eurovision Song Contest 2017 at the International Exhibition Centre in Kiev, Ukraine, May 14, 2017. REUTERS/Gleb Garanich\nPortugal's Salvador Sobral celebrates after winning the grand final of the Eurovision Song Contest 2017 at the International Exhibition Centre in Kiev, Ukraine, May 13, 2017. REUTERS/Gleb Garanich\nKIEV Portugal's Salvador Sobral won the Eurovision Song Contest on Saturday performing a jazz-style ballad written by his sister, taking the top spot for the first time in the country's history and celebrating with a call to "put emotion back into music".\nAlong with singers from Italy and Bulgaria, Sobral was a favorite going into the final of the annual song fest, which was hosted in the Ukrainian capital Kiev, and he led the voting throughout the evening. Portugal finished ahead of Bulgaria and Moldova.\nA soft-spoken, 27 year-old with a scraggly beard, Sobral won with "Amar Pelos Dois" ("Love For Both of Us"), sung in his native Portuguese. This is the first time Portugal won since it first entered the contest in 1964. After being announced as the winner, Sobral performed the ballad again, this time in duet with his sister Luisa.\n"Music is not fireworks, music is feeling," he said after winning. "Let's put emotion back into music."\nAsked later at a press conference whether he was now a national hero, he said: "Honestly man I just want to live a peaceful life, if I thought of myself as a national hero it would be a bit weird, you know."\nUkraine hosted the competition while it also fights a war, hundreds of kilometers (miles) away in the east, against Russian-backed separatists.\nAs is custom in the contest, geopolitics played a part.\nRussia boycotted this year's event after Ukraine barred its contestant from entering the country - a symptom of the countries' toxic relations since Moscow's annexation of Ukraine's Crimea peninsula in 2014. Ukraine won last year's Eurovision with its Crimean Tatar entry Jamala.\nIn a grim reminder of the continued conflict in the east, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko canceled his scheduled appearance at the competition after four civilians were killed in artillery attacks that Kiev blamed on the separatist rebels.\nBRINGING CHANGE\nThis was the 62nd edition of Eurovision, recognized by Guinness World Records as the longest-running annual TV music competition. It began in 1956 with just seven countries. Ireland have won most often - seven times in all - following by Sweden.\nSobral came into the competition having told local media that he has a heart problem, without giving details. In the run-up he wore a sweatshirt drawing attention to the migrant crisis in Europe, but was asked to stop wearing it by the organizers.\n"I hope this can bring a change not only to this contest, but to music in general, and pop music," Sobral said about his win, contrasting his song to music normally pumped out "16 times a day" on radio stations.\nOther hopefuls this year included Italian Francesco Gabbani. He was tipped to win with a number, viewed nearly 114 million times on YouTube, that mixes Buddhist imagery with a dancing ape, and that he explained as poking fun at the West's superficial embrace of eastern culture.\nJacques Houdek, known as 'Mr Voice' in Croatia, blended pop and operatic singing styles in the song "My Friend". Romania fielded a duo that combined rap and yodeling.\nUkraine has won the competition twice, including last year with a song about the mass deportation of Tatars from Crimea by Josef Stalin, and its winners performed on Saturday.\nMoscow fielded a candidate this year who had violated Ukrainian law by performing in Crimea after the Russian takeover. Kiev accused Moscow of deliberately provoking a row.\nRussian singer Yulia Samoylova performed in Crimea again on Tuesday, coinciding with the first Eurovision semi-final.\n"I think politics shouldn't intervene," said Liza Ignatieva, a 21-year-old university student in Moscow. "But they broke the rules of the event by not letting her in. Why they invented new rules for Russia only? Yes, we have bad relations but they shouldn't do it to us."\nMore than 10,000 have been killed in the war between Ukraine and pro-Russian fighters that erupted in 2014 following the Maidan street protests that ousted a pro-Russian president, and the annexation of Crimea.\nBut during Eurovision at least, Maidan and its surrounding streets have been filled with fans. Big screens and food stalls have been set up in the center of the capital, and Ukrainian memorabilia put on sale.\n"And yes, there is a war going on, but it's further, further out," said Stephanie Novak, a visiting fan from Australia.\n"And I think isn't it the whole point of Eurovision to help bring Europe together? What could be better than bringing Europe to a country that is being so affected by war at the moment and to show them what a beautiful country it is."\n(Additional reporting by Sergiy Karazy and Natalia Zinets in Kiev, Axel Bugge in Lisbon and Vladimir Soldatkin in Moscow; Editing by Mark Potter and Mary Milliken)}}
{{President Trump says he will sign something to address the spike in the number of migrant children being separated from their families at the border (PHOTO: FOX19 NOW/File)\nPresident Donald Trump says he'll be signing something "in a little while" to address the spike in the number of migrant children being separated from their families at the border.\nTrump said during a White House meeting with members of Congress that, "We want to keep families together."\nThe comments come amid news that Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen has been working on executive action that would end the separation process.\nTrump also told reporters that he plans to cancel the annual congressional picnic, saying: "It doesn't feel right to have a picnic for Congress."\nHe added that: "We want to solve this immigration problem."}}
{{The video will start in 8 Cancel\nGet Daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nFestive business is booming for Burton's independent traders as nation-wide chains struggle to sell.\nTop retailers including Debenhams, House of Fraser, Argos, John Lewis and Boots have been forced to slash their prices by up to 80 per cent as Christmas Day approaches.\nBut firms trading in town have been enjoying steady Advent sales figures.\nOne thriving business has been Alphabet Gift Shop, which caters for early-morning commuters in need of a caffeine fix.\nJodie Hammond, 26, is a shop supervisor at the Union Street store.\nShe said: "We have been really busy in the shop, which has been full all day every day.\n"We're really lucky that we have been doing so well in the run up to Christmas.\n"I think it's because we sell things that are a little different to all the other shops in Burton.\n"After Christmas, we'll be having a sale, so shoppers can find even more great deals."\nSpirit Games, in High Street, has also had a prosperous lead-up to Christmas.\nOwner Phil Bootherstone said a surprising amount of people had ordered presents online.\nHe said: "It's been a pretty good year on the whole. We've had a higher number of mail orders than we were expecting.\n"It's great to think that when people are shopping online, there are hundreds of different stores they can choose from. It's great that we have been doing well on the web.\n"We've also been doing well in store and we've had a lot of people come through the doors.\n"Traditional games have been really popular this year and we're glad to see that people are still enjoying playing them."\nAhoy Sailor Vintage in High Street has also been bucking the trend.\nThe store's Natalie Lynch said: "We've generally been very busy during the run up to Christmas.\n"We're pretty well known locally for our range of crazy Christmas jumpers so we have seen a lot of returning and new customers.\n"The town centre has looked busy and so has High Street with all the indie traders doing well."\nHowever, Shereena Starmer, 34, the owner of Shabby Nook in the Octagon Centre, and said trade had not been as good as she would have hoped for.\nShe said: "It's not been as good as last year. Trade has definitely suffered a little bit.\n"I think it's a combination of a number of things. A lot people would rather shop online rather than go into town when they are shopping for Christmas.\n"I do think that people might be shopping elsewhere. We have already launched our Christmas sale in hopes of boosting our sales a little bit before the 25th.\nIn Swadlincote, businesses have also been doing well in what is traditionally the high street's busiest time of the year.\nLeanne Mace, of vintage store Curly Magpie and Friends, in High Street, said: "We have had a very busy week and would like to thank our customers old and new for their continued support.\n"We are open Saturday, from 9am to 5pm, and Sunday, from 10am to 1pm, for any last minute gifts and Christmas styling.\n"Our business over the last two years has been very consistent and stable gaining new customers as they discover us.\n"We offer unique gifts as well as vintage and antique homeware alongside handmade goods."\nNomad Tattoo and Retail has reported a great year - especially since more shoppers headed to Swadlincote when Burton's St Peter's Bridge was closed.\nA store spokesman said: "We've been doing pretty well so far this year.\n"It's always nice in Swad in the run up to Christmas and this year there seems to be quite a few people opting to shop local, which is nice."\nEarlier this month, the Get Vocal About Local campaign encouraged shoppers to buy gifts from independent businesses.\nSmall Business Saturday was held on December 1, and shoppers were encouraged to try new stores for their Christmas shopping.\nShop opening times around Burton and Swadlincote\nThe Octagon and Cooper's Square shopping centres will be open from 10am to 4.30pm on Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve.\nThe centres will also be be closed on Christmas Day and New Year's Day.\nNormal hours - 9am to 5.30pm for The Octagon and 8am to 6pm for Cooper's Square - will apply on Boxing Day.\nCentre bosses have warned shoppers to check with individual shops about their opening times, as some stores may not follow the same hours as the shopping centres.}}
{{"The road and the studio are the only places I've ever felt completely OK," Tom Petty told Rolling Stone last summer, explaining why he was launching one last grueling tour to mark his 40th anniversary with the Heartbreakers. But the roadwork wasn’t easy for him. Petty spent the entire 53-date tour struggling with severe pain from a fracture in his left hip. He got through it with painkillers and used a golf cart to move around backstage. "Tom was ill," said his friend Stevie Nicks. "And he fought his way through that tour. He should have canceled and gone home and gone to the hospital, but not Tom. He was going to go down that river."\nRelated Tom Petty's Cause of Death: Accidental Overdose Singer had been taking several pain medications, including Fentanyl and oxycodone, to treat fractured hip and other issues\nIn October, a week after the final date at the Hollywood Bowl, Petty was dead. The 66-year-old had accidentally overdosed mixing a variety of medications. The one the Petty family blamed: fentanyl, an extremely potent synthetic opioid 30 to 50 times more powerful than heroin, according to the DEA. Despite having a previous history of opioid abuse, he'd been prescribed a fentanyl patch to help with his pain; in addition to that slow-releasing patch, two other, more dangerous, derivatives of the drug were also found in his system. "Those are illicit," says Dr. Nora Volkow of the National Institute on Drug Abuse. "Those you get very likely in the black market." (Petty's family declined to comment.)\nPetty's overdose in many ways mirrored Prince's a year and a half earlier. Prince was also taking the drug while dealing with a hip injury, probably stemming from decades of punishing live performances. Over the past decade, fentanyl was also a leading factor in the fatal overdoses of former Wilco guitarist Jay Bennett, 3 Doors Down guitarist Matt Roberts and Slipknot bassist Paul Gray. In November, rising rapper Lil Peep died at 21 after taking a combination of fentanyl and Xanax. “It is so crazy-strong,” says Petty’s daughter Adria, who is planning a campaign against fentanyl. “We really don’t want this to happen to anyone else. We learned this is the worst feeling you can have: to lose someone you love for no good reason.”\nBeyond the music industry, fentanyl has emerged as the most dangerous new drug in a generation. Of the nearly 65,000 fatal opioid overdoses in the U.S. in 2016 (the most recent survey), one-third were fentanyl-related, double the amount from the year before. The drug has surpassed heroin as the leading cause of overdose deaths, and new data shows that fentanyl overdose deaths jumped 30 percent between July 2016 and September 2017.\nFentanyl was invented in 1959 to help cancer patients cope with intense post-surgical pain. These days, it’s prescribed as a lollipop or a patch, which slowly releases the dosage through the skin, typically used for a few days after a major surgery. Though illegal in pill form, black-market fentanyl pills have become common in the past decade. This happened after doctors cut back on prescribing OxyContin in 2007, when the government sued its manufacturer for misleading the public about the drug’s addictive risks. Opioid users had to look elsewhere, and turned to heroin, which dealers started mixing with fentanyl for a faster-acting, more euphoric and addictive high. A fatal fentanyl overdose can happen in barely one minute. “The dose you require is minuscule, like a grain of salt,” says Volkow. “A tiny difference in your content can mean someone dying. You need a very sophisticated lab in order to measure a concentration that would be safe.”\nThe drug’s potency can pose a chilling new threat for users: In a previous era, “someone would OD and you’d have time to soak them in a bath or keep them moving until they got to the ER,” says Gene Bowen, a former road manager and founder of Road Recovery, a musicians’ substance-abuse assistance organization. “It’s not the case now. In 20 minutes they can be dead.”\nRelated Fentanyl, Mandatory Minimums and the Death Penalty: Trump's War on Drugs A new bill from a loyal band of Trump Republicans introduces mandatory minimums and the death penalty for selling fentanyl\nOpioids have gripped the music business for decades – codeine and Percodan were among the drugs found in Elvis Presley’s body when he died in 1977. But fentanyl’s rise in music may be rooted in deeper trends. Artists are touring more than ever before. “The stress of the road is very difficult, but that’s where the money is,” says Harold Owens, senior director of MusiCares, the Grammy-connected assistance program. “So they go on these long tours, and physically it’s horrible. They’re not eating right or taking care of themselves.”\nMany of those hard-touring acts – at or near what would be retirement age in other professions – are dealing with the long-term effects of life on the road. “We’re all older, and people are starting to have carpal tunnel and injuries from playing,” says Bonnie Raitt, a recovering addict herself, who was forced to cancel an upcoming tour with James Taylor due to health problems. “It’s very difficult to not take pain meds.” David Crosby, 76, says he tours out of necessity, “or else I will not be able to keep my home. I don’t have any savings.” He avoids taking pain pills for his bad shoulders for fear of relapse: “I carry [painkillers]. I have some with me. But I’ve had the same bottle for three years. That’s how seldom I hit it.”\n“We’re all older, and people are starting to have carpal tunnel and injuries from playing,” says Bonnie Raitt. “It’s very difficult to not take pain meds.”\nPrince reportedly became addicted to Percocet after hip surgery in 2010. “Jumping off those pianos and speakers, that doesn’t bode well for anybody,” says keyboardist Morris Hayes, Prince’s musical director from 1992 to 2012. “But it’s not something he would talk about. If his head was on fire, he’d put a hat on it and keep moving.” Prince’s friend Sheila E. added, “He was in pain all the time, but he was a performer. . . . You think about all the years he was jumping off those risers.” After Prince was found dead in an elevator at his Paisley Park home in Minnesota in 2016, tests revealed an inordinately high amount of fentanyl in his liver and stomach. He had no prescription in his name for the drug, but thought he was taking Vicodin. While searching his home, investigators discovered a bottle with 49 black-market pills that tested as part fentanyl.\nExperts say Prince probably didn’t know what he was taking. “I guarantee you that Prince wasn’t saying, ‘I’m taking fentanyl,’ ” says Scott Bienenfeld, an addiction psychiatrist who works with musicians. “The majority of my patients are pain patients, and someone gave them fentanyl as an add-on: ‘You’ve taken OxyContin, now take this.’ Most of these musicians, trust me, don’t know it’s laced with fentanyl.” These kinds of pills are cranked out in labs in China and Mexico and can be easily ordered online and shipped to the U.S. Pills with fentanyl compounds – sold on the street with names like Apache, Goodfella, Jackpot and Murder 8 – can be as cheap as $10. “The drugs look exactly like legit pills or drugs that aren’t cut with anything,” says Adria Petty. “Victims have no idea they are ingesting fentanyl at all, or extremely high doses of synthetic fentanyl, 50 to 100 times stronger than legally prescribed fentanyl, which is almost guaranteed to be deadly.”\nStephen J. Cohen/Getty\nIn April, after a two-year investigation, Minnesota authorities announced no one would be charged in the death of Prince. “There is no reliable evidence showing how Prince obtained the counterfeit Vicodin containing fentanyl,” said Mark Metz, an attorney for the state. “The bottom line is that we simply do not have sufficient evidence to charge anyone with a crime related to Prince’s death.” Prince’s family has launched a lawsuit against a hospital in Moline, Illinois, for failing to properly diagnose another overdose Prince suffered six days before his death, on what were likely the same pills that killed him. But at least one heir, Prince’s sister Tyka Nelson, says she is not concerned that the state of Minnesota didn't arrest anyone for the fentanyl found in her brother's body: “I thought, ‘Let’s move on,’ ” she says. “You can charge 20,000 people and toss them in jail. Will that bring my brother back? It’s not. It didn’t matter if it was a knife or a gun or fentayl. If it doesn’t bring back my brother, it didn’t matter."\n“You can charge 20,000 people and toss them in jail – will that bring my brother back?" says Prince's sister Tyka. "If it doesn’t bring back my brother, it doesn't matter.”\nTo date, prosecuting fentanyl deaths has been an uphill battle. According to Darrell Roberts, father of Matt from 3 Doors Down, his son suffered from back pain and anxiety and had surgery on his hand a decade ago; prescribed fentanyl in 2010, he quietly took the drug for six years. Before a trip to Wisconsin to play for veterans, the guitarist, co-writer of their 2000 hit “Kryptonite,” picked up a 30-day supply of 75-microgram fentanyl patches from a CVS near his home in Alabama.\n“I didn’t even know what fentanyl was, but I knew Matt had taken something,” says Roberts, who accompanied his son on the trip. “His demeanor had begun to slow down. He was real slow walking and looking down.” A few hours later, his son was found dead in the hallway outside their adjacent hotel rooms. One fentanyl patch was discovered on his body. “Matt had some pain, but nothing to a level that would rise to fentanyl,” says attorney Joey Dumas, who is representing the Roberts family in a civil suit against the guitarist’s doctor for wrongful death. The doctor was found not guilty in a previous criminal case after a jury could not determine how much fentanyl in Roberts’ system was prescribed and how much was illegal. “We were disappointed – Matt’s father wants accountability,” says Dumas. Similar questions surround Lil Peep, who died on his tour bus before an Arizona show last year after overdosing on Xanax pills that he was likely unaware were laced with fentanyl. The Arizona division of the DEA is investigating the origins of his fentanyl supply.\nSoundgarden singer Chris Cornell struggled with opioid issues before he died last year. His death – by asphyxiation related to a prescription for Ativan, an anti-anxiety drug – has prompted his wife, Vicky, to rally heavily against strong opioids. “The only way to address this is that doctors need to take an active part,” she says. “It needs to be part of medical training. How are they getting it? In the case of musicians, they don’t even have to buy street drugs. Too many doctors want to be ‘rock docs’ and be ‘in’ and make people happy.”\nCornell has started the Addiction Resource Center, a website dedicated to her late husband that aims to help substance abusers. The Petty family is working on plans, to be announced soon, to offer guidance to families and addicts. “We don’t want this to happen to anyone else,” says Adria. “We want to reach people struggling with chronic pain, opioid addiction and recovery, and create awareness about the strength of these drugs.”\nIn the meantime, musicians are learning to identify – and avoid – fentanyl. Aerosmith’s Joe Perry, who has been sober since the mid 1980s, advocates for close monitoring by trusted members of artists’ teams. About a decade ago, he had knee-replacement surgery and, to ensure he didn’t relapse on painkillers, had an aide chronicle his usage. “You have to have somebody hold it for you,” he says. “You’ve got to not have it in your hands.”\nOn tour in Florida a few years ago, singer-songwriter Todd Snider was looking for OxyContin to help with shoulder and back pain. The dealer didn’t have any, but did give him a fentanyl patch and lollipop. Snider immediately felt the difference. “All the other drugs wake me up,” he says, “but this one knocked me out.” He vowed to never use it again. “I really did get lucky,” he says. “I dodged that one.”}}
{{Just because a rock pairing looks intriguing on paper doesn't mean it will work out. Damnocracy, a short-lived band, which featured a couple of rock's craziest characters, Ted Nugent and Sebastian Bach, crashed and burned. The same goes for XYZ, a group with Jimmy Page, Chris Squire and Alan White, and the Firm, which also included Page, this time with Paul Rodgers.\nWhen Les Claypool and Sean Lennon connected when the former's band, the Ghost of a Saber Tooth Tiger opened for the latter's act, Primus in 2015, the pair became good friends. When Claypool and Lennon announced that they were going to collaborate, it made total sense.\nBoth are idiosyncratic, uncompromising and fearless. Unlike many hyped supergroups, the act — dubbed Lennon Claypool Delirium, which will perform Saturday, Aug. 27 at New Haven's College Street Music Hall — is a creative success.\n"Monolith of Phobos" is a compelling album, which is composed of lush, warm and, at times, hypnotic songs. Sure, there are times Claypool and Lennon are self-indulgent and there are some misses, but much of their initial album hits in an odd but satisfying manner.\n"We have a lot of respect for one another," Claypool said on a call from Detroit. "I've never met anyone like Sean."\nThe Claypool Lennon Delirium Courtesy ATO Records Sean Lennon and Les Claypool are performing together as The Claypool Lennon Delirium, touring with a stop at College Street Music Hall in New Haven Aug. 27. Sean Lennon and Les Claypool are performing together as The Claypool Lennon Delirium, touring with a stop at College Street Music Hall in New Haven Aug. 27. (Courtesy ATO Records)\nClaypool and Lennon switch off lead vocal duties. Claypool is an adventurous bassist and Lennon is an underrated guitarist who possesses a gift for melody. The Claypool Lennon Delirium is never as out there as Primus. Lennon is a perfect match for Claypool since he reins in the captain of weird.\n"I think we complement each other and bring out the best in each other," Claypool said. "People don't realize that Sean is a guitar monster, who has tremendous skill."\nThere are plenty of offbeat moments during songs. "Mr. Wright," "Oxycontin Girl" and "Bubbles Burst," which is inspired by Michael Jackson's celebrated monkey, have plenty of odd moments.\n"It all came together organically," Claypool said. "It was an enjoyable process."\nThe album was made in the comfortable confines of Claypool's Northern California studio, Rancho Relaxo. Claypool and Lennon went fishing and consumed pinot noir from Claypool's nearby vineyard.\n"We had a relaxing time making this album," Claypool said. "We had a great time in each other's company."\nClaypool laughs when asked about how Lennon gushes when he speaks of his new bandmate. "That's kind of funny considering who his parents are," Claypool said. "That's great that Sean likes what I do, but you look at his parents work and what he has done, that's pretty impressive. Sean is a really interesting guy who had a fascinating childhood."\nLennon's parents are the late John Lennon and the avant artist Yoko Ono. Lennon, who inspired the moving tune, "Beautiful Boy," did have an unusual upbringing, one of opulence and tragedy. Claypool's adulthood has been notable, starting with his audition for Metallica a generation ago.\n"I tried out but was obviously not the right fit," Claypool said. "I gave it a shot since I was friends with [Metallica guitarist] Kirk [Hammett] since high school."\nAside from sonic differences, it would have never worked with Metallica and Claypool since the band has issues with members and their outside projects. Claypool, who has been part of Oysterhead, Sausage and Duo De Twang, is constantly working with other musicians.\n"I've always thought that was healthy," Claypool said. "I don't look at these things that I do as 'side projects.' I view them as what I'm doing now. I'm making music and touring with Sean now. That's a pretty cool thing. Sean is a friend, who is very talented and we have this amazing musical connection. This wouldn't have happened if Oysterhead got back together. The original plan for me was to do an Oysterhead album but it didn't work out due to schedules. I had a year off from Primus and I spoke with Sean and we got together and in no time we had ten songs. I think we had a good approach. We went fishing to break things up or had a glass of pinot when there was an issue. Making music with him is such an enjoyable process."\nCount on the restless Claypool to get back with Primus in 2017 and to continue to be part of unpredictable unions with other musicians.\n"Everything is good with Primus," Claypool said. "When I'm not working with those guys, I'll be doing other things in the studio and going on tours. I love music and I love variety. I'm also very much in the present. The present is all about working with Sean, which has been an amazing thing."\nTHE CLAYPOOL LENNON DELIRIUM appears Saturday, Aug. 27 at College Street Music Hall, 238 College St, New Haven. JJUUJJUU will open. Tickets are $28 and $32.50. Show time is 9 p.m. For more information, 203-867-2000, collegestreetmusichall.com}}
{{Third Eye Blind is the featured artist for the Perspective series on the John Lennon Educational Tour Bus. Students from the Austin Independent School District created a short film and interviewed 3EB frontman Stephan Jenkins during South by Southwest.\n“The reason why we make things is because it makes them manageable. We become owned by our emotions. When you get into some kind of relationship to that emotional response and then you wrangle it in art, then it becomes manageable in some way,” Jenkins tells the students aboard the bus, a state-of-the-art mobile, audio, video, and live production facility.\nThird Eye Blind are currently on their Summer Gods Tour with Silversun Pickups. The tour commemorates the 20th anniversary of the release of Third Eye Blind, the band’s Platinum-selling debut studio album featuring the singles “Semi-Charmed Life”, “Jumper”, and “How’s It Going to Be.”\nIn an interview with CBS-FM morning show host Scott Shannon, Jenkins admitted he and the band didn’t believe “Semi-Charmed Life” would be a hit, saying “it was too dirty to play on the radio.”\n–E.J. Judge/WCBS-FM}}
{{First the media gives him about $2 billion in free air time during his campaign, at least $30 million of which was from his best buddies over at Fox "News." Now we get to look forward to this.\nHere's the gang from this Christmas Eve's Fox & Friends with another gift for Donald Trump -- promoting the steakhouse at his Trump hotel just in time for the holiday.\nRather than looking at Trump's huge conflicts of interest with his refusal to separate himself and his family from his business interests, we're going to get to look forward to Fox promoting them instead.}}
{{Never Trump establishment conservatives Max Boot and Jennifer Rubin have openly expressed their desire to see pro-Trump Republicans replaced with illegal immigrants.\nWriting for the Washington Post, neo-con globalist Boot wrote, “If only we could keep the hard-working Latin American newcomers and deport the contemptible Republican cowards — that would truly enhance America’s greatness.”\nJennifer Rubin, who is also employed by the Washington Post as a “right of center” columnist, reacted to the column by tweeting it and enthusiastically proclaiming “yes!”\n"If only we could keep the hard-working Latin American newcomers and deport the contemptible Republican cowards — that would truly enhance America’s greatness." yes!\nhttps://t.co/ygouIRXjhP — Jennifer Rubin (@JRubinBlogger) June 18, 2018\n“While Boot’s stated wish is, of course, monstrous, give him credit for being honest, for finally saying out loud what Democrats and the establishment media have been championing for decades — which is to replace everyday Middle Americans with untold millions of subservient illegal aliens who will steal our jobs, vote “correctly,” and provide elites with cheap lawn and child care,” writes John Nolte.\nThe rhetoric sounds similar to that espoused by Bill Kristol in 2017 when he said lazy, white, working class Americans should be replaced with immigrants.\n“Look, to be totally honest, if things are so bad as you say with the white working class, don’t you want to get new Americans in?” asked Kristol.\n“You can make a case that America has been great because every — I think John Adams said this — basically if you are in free society, a capitalist society, after two or three generations of hard work everyone becomes kind of decadent, lazy, spoiled — whatever,” he added.\n“Then, luckily, you have these waves of people coming in from Italy, Ireland, Russia, and now Mexico, who really want to work hard and really want to succeed and really want their kids to live better lives than them and aren’t sort of clipping coupons or hoping that they can hang on and meanwhile grew up as spoiled kids and so forth. In that respect, I don’t know how this moment is that different from the early 20th century.”\nBill Kristol: Lazy White Working Class Americans Should be Replaced by Immigrants – https://t.co/BdIq3yDrba pic.twitter.com/SPWZJfT7xA — Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) 9 February 2017\nBoth Max Boot and Jennifer Rubin have been relentless critics of President Trump. Boot describes himself as a social liberal who supports abortion, mass immigration, and believes in man-made climate change.\nIn December 2017, Boot wrote a groveling article for Foreign Policy in which he apologized for not recognizing his “white privilege” and his “male privilege”.\nSUBSCRIBE on YouTube:\nFollow on Twitter: Follow @PrisonPlanet\nFacebook: https://www.facebook.com/paul.j.watson.71\n*********************\nPaul Joseph Watson is the editor at large of Infowars.com and Prison Planet.com.}}
{{'Initial reports showed many houses were destroyed, although we have not received reports of casualties as of 9 pm,' says an employee of the Talisay City Fire Department\nPublished 9:45 PM, December 24, 2017\nThis is a developing story.\nCEBU, Philippines – Just hours away from Christmas, a huge fire struck a densely populated area in Sitio Caduldulan, Lawaan 3, Barangay Tabunok, Talisay City in this province on Sunday night, December 24.\nThe blaze was first reported to the fire station before 7 pm, and put under control at 7:45 pm, said Benjie Resorente, an office employee of the Talisay City Fire Department, in a phone interview with Rappler.\nResorente said the area is densely populated, with houses mostly made of light materials. He added that the roads leading to the site are too narrow for fire trucks to enter.\n"Initial reports showed many houses were destroyed, although we have not received reports of casualties as of 9 pm," he said.\nFire personnel, including the city's fire head and investigator, were still on the scene as of this posting. The cause of the blaze has yet to be determined.\nThe fire reached Task Force Alpha, prompting all fire stations to send their fire trucks to assist the Talisay City firemen. – Rappler.com}}
{{"Massive open online courses got a little less open with edX's recent announcement that it is introducing support fees for some of its MOOCs."—Source: Inside Higher Ed\nRead More\nWHY THIS MATTERS:\nA support fee takes the model away from its original, democratizing intentions. But could it improve completion rates? Only time will tell. —Eduwire Editors}}
{{More than 22,000 people were evacuated on Saturday when the stage at an electronic music festival near Barcelona erupted in flames, sending attendees running.\nFirefighters rushed to the Tomorrowland festival in Santa Coloma de Gramenet in north-eastern Spain, and eventually managed to extinguish the blaze which caused no injuries, they said in a statement.\nA total of 22,143 people had to be evacuated from the festival, they added.\nFootage of the incident shows one side of the stage consumed by giant flames, a shower of sparks raining down as people ran away and black smoke billowing up.\nIt is not clear what caused the blaze, but organisers said on their Facebook page it was due to a technical malfunction.\n“Thanks to the professional intervention of the authorities all 22,000 visitors were evacuated safely and without reports of injuries,” they said.}}
{{Tipp teens seeking a financial boost to their musical career can now tune up to enter the 2017 Top Security Frank Maher Classical Music Awards. There’s a €5,000 first prize to be won as Ireland’s largest classical music competition for secondary schools is once again looking to recognise and reward some of the country’s most talented teens.\nOpen to sixth year music students of string, woodwind, brass and piano, the closing date for entries is Thursday 12th October 2017. Seven finalists will be selected by an independent board of adjudicators to attend the competition night on Friday 10th November 2017 at the Royal College of Physicians in Dublin to perform in front of an invited audience. The winner receives a bursary of €5,000 to further their musical career while the remaining finalists each receive €250.\nEmmet O’Rafferty, chairman of Top Security Group, established the Awards in 2001 to honour the memory of his late teacher Frank Maher.\nPast winners have received national and international recognition for their achievement and used their prize money as a springboard towards a professional career by funding their studies at some of the world’s most renowned music colleges and institutions.\nThe , was at the launch photocall. She said, “Winning the Frank Maher Award in 2009 was a great honour and privilege. I am incredibly grateful to have had that financial support at such a crucial stage in my career. It is a fantastic opportunity for sixth-year students and I would encourage all aspiring professional musicians to enter it," explained 2009 winner Maire Carroll, now an award-winning international concert pianist, at the award launch.\nFull details on how to apply on www.topsecurity.ie.}}
{{2016 would not be complete without at least a final controversy for one of its regular bad boys. Justin Bieber was recently in the gossip pages for his alleged raunchy Christmas party. According to dubious reports, Bieber “believes in strippers for Christmas,” and had “kicked off Christmas early with a merrily sex-drenched bash at his Toluca lake pad that turned Santa’s cheeks redder than Rudolph’s nose.”\nThe website further backed up the story citing an alleged tipster who said that Justin had invited many of Hollywood’s most beautiful girls where he requested them to dress up in barely-there skimpy outfits to prance around like Santa’s helpers. The supposed source further claimed that Justin had erected a big “Sexy Santa Quiz” wheel that featured naughty questions and sex toys for prizes.\nThis bogus story is of course not true, though fans can’t be blamed in believing in it. For most of the year, Bieber had an on again, off again relationship with his fans and social media (right now, the status is off again). In March, Justin had canceled nonrefundable meet-and-greets with fans on his “Purpose World Tour,” just because he felt “drained and unhappy.” These tickets, by the way, came up to $2,000 apiece.\nIn May, he declared that he felt like a “zoo animal” and declared that he was “done taking pictures” with people who meet him in public. Back then, he argued in a message he posted on Instagram, that his fans felt “entitled” whenever he refuses to have his photo taken with them.\n“I realize people will be disappointed but I don’t owe anybody a picture,” he had written. “You got what you paid for, AN ALBUM! It does not say in fine print whenever you see me you also get a photo.”\nThen in August, Justin had deactivated his Instagram account because of the harsh messages that fans posted against his then-rumored girlfriend Sofia Richie. Meanwhile, he created another account for his cute puppy, Todd, which of course fans were only too happy to follow. At this point, a “Belieber” will gladly consume any kind of news about the Canadian pop sensation.\nJustin’s tantrums then continued to escalate. While on tour in October, he reprimanded a fan who threw her hat onstage. Later on he grew frustrated from his screaming fans and told them that the screaming should stop. After this outburst, he proceeded to unceremoniously walk offstage. He explained that he felt it was an inauthentic experience since the fans simply wouldn’t hear him out.\nThe case for his deactivated Instagram account came up again in November during his concert in London. According to a video posted on YouTube, Justin had declared that “Instagram is for the devil” and that he was 90 percent sure that “hell is Instagram.”\n“We get sent to hell and we get locked in the Instagram server, I’m stuck in the DMs, trying to get my way out and I can’t,” he said before laying out a disclaimer, “I don’t know what I’m talking about.”\nDespite all these, Justin’s album Purpose has received four 2017 Grammy Award nominations. This even includes the most prestigious Album of the Year award. On this album, Bieber had already made $56 million, and is the 26th highest-paid celebrity, according to Forbes’ 2016 ranking. Aside from that, he also holds 14 Guinness World Records, and is actually even breaking half of his own records.\nAccording to Nielsen Music, before November 19, 2015, Bieber’s entire catalog volume was 715,000 units. This is a mix of digital and physical albums, permanent downloads and audio and video streams. When he released his new album this year, it set an all-time record for total audio on-demand streams. Justin’s catalog volume skyrocketed to 2.9 million units.\nIt’s amazing how Justin Bieber has managed to stay relevant since his first stint as a mere YouTube sensation. The question of his relevance probably lies in how much his fans are willing to keep up and forgive his moodiness.\n[Featured Image by Nicholas Hunt/Getty Images]}}
{{KUALA NERANG: The District Education Offices and school managements must be more proactive in handling the problems of bullying to prevent the problem from deteriorating, said Education Minister Datuk Seri Mahdzir Khalid.\nHe said such efforts included having discussions and meetings together with their respective district police chief to identify the hotspot areas with bullying elements.\n“Bullying cases do not occur in all schools, with one district possibly having one or two schools facing the problem.\n“”The school management must forge closer relations with the police and if there are cases, do not be afraid to report them to the authorities,” he told reporters after attending the programme to hand out Aidilfitri contributions by Padang Terap Umno deputy division head, Datuk Ghazali Ibrahim, here yesterday.\nHe said this when commenting on the issue of bullying which occurred frequently lately, including the case of T Nhaveen, 18, who died in George Town, Penang after being assaulted and abused by his colleagues.\nMahdzir also emphasised on the importance of disciplinary teachers and counsellors in each school to improve skills in facing students who had the tendency to bully or be bullied.\n“However, I don’t agree if the teachers are blamed when a bullying case occurs…the bullying problem is a joint problem that must be resolved by everyone,”he said.\nA total of 3,200 recipients from 143 Umno branches in Padang Terap received the contribution in the form of sarong, glutinous rice and cash at the event. — Bernama}}
{{Statistics show an uptick in heart attacks on Christmas and during the holiday season in general. But why do these events take place so often during the holidays? A paper published in 2004 in the Journal of the American Heart Association showed that in the United States, cardiac mortality reaches its peak in December and January. But there has been a lot of debate as to what really drives these events. For instance, Christmas celebrations often mean an increase in negative health habits – eating richer foods and drinking more alcohol, in specific. The holidays also mean additional stress brought about by Christmas preparations, as well as tighter schedules in general. Weather-related factors may play a part as well, due to frigid winter temperatures restricting blood vessels and making the heart work harder than usual. As it turns out, winter weather has nothing to do with the higher rate of heart attacks during the Christmas season. The Huffington Post cited a new study posted in the Journal of the American Heart Association study, which used New Zealanders as a comparison point, due to their similarity in culture and the fact that Christmas coincides with their summertime. Given the fact that Australia also celebrates an “upside-down Christmas” as a Southern Hemisphere country, a team of University of Melbourne researchers looked into whether New Zealanders experience similar spikes in heart attacks while celebrating the Christmas season, despite celebrating the holidays in the summer. The researchers studied New Zealand mortality statistics over a 25-year span from 1988 to 2013, and tallied an “expected” death count per day of the year. They also took their model and compared it against the actual deaths per day over the Christmas holidays, or a range of dates from December 25 through January 7. And when it came to cardiac events, there was a 4 percent increase over those two weeks, translating to approximately four more deaths per year. Additionally, heart attack victims died at a younger age during the holiday season, dying at 76.2-years-old, as to 77.1-years-old if they died at any other time of the year. Heart attack patients often lack access to medical services during the holidays. [Image by Dan Kitwood/Getty Images] According to lead author Josh Knight, other factors related to the uptick in cardiac deaths during the holiday season included a lack of access to proper medical assistance. “The Christmas holiday period is a common time for travel within New Zealand, with people frequently holidaying away from their main medical facilities. This could contribute to delays in both seeking treatment, due to a lack of familiarity with nearby medical facilities, and due to geographic isolation from appropriate medical care in emergency situations.” Knight was also quoted by the Daily Mail as saying that terminally-ill individuals may prefer to spend the holidays with their loved ones, thereby trying to hold off on dying for a little longer. “The ability of individuals to modify their date of death, based on dates of significance, has been both confirmed and refuted in other studies, however it remains a possible explanation for this holiday effect.” More research is needed to see if rich foods served on Christmas contribute to holiday spikes in heart attacks. [Image by Chaloner Woods/Getty Images] The Huffington Post added that this marked the third study where researchers tried to track heart attack deaths during Christmas season, and see why the rates are so high. Aside from the aforementioned studies on U.S. and New Zealand subjects, a team of British researchers wrote in 2005 that while there was no spike in death rates on Christmas day, there was one observed in the U.K. on New Year’s Day. While the above theories mesh with earlier studies’ conclusions on why fatal heart attacks on or around Christmas Day are so common, the researchers believe that fatty foods, increased alcohol consumption, and stress are indeed potential factors, but more research may be needed to measure their impact. [Featured Image by Charles McQuillan/Getty Images]\nxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx}}
{{JACKSON, MI - Though some might be excited by the likelihood of a snowy Christmas, those traveling this eve should so with caution.\nThe National Weather Service has issued a "winter weather advisory" in Jackson, Calhoun, Eaton and Ingham counties. This is in effect until 7 p.m. Sunday, Dec. 24.\nDrivers should be prepared slippery conditions and periods of snow covering roads and limiting visibilities.\nA total of 1 to 3 inches are expected.\nIt is now 20 degrees in Jackson. Snow is to fall mainly after 1 p.m., according to the weather service.}}
{{GALAXY TONIGHT\nVS. VANCOUVER WHITECAPS\nWhen: 7:30 p.m. PDT Saturday\nOn the air: TWCSN, TWCD\nRecords: Galaxy 9-4-12; Whitecaps 5-10-10\nRecord vs. Whitecaps: 1-0-1\nUpdate: Galaxy goalkeeper Brian Rowe trained Friday and could return to the net after missing two games with a head injury. Clement Diop started in his place, with the Galaxy losing 0-1 at New York City last Saturday and drawing 2-2 at Chicago on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the Whitecaps have surrendered 43 goals this season, the most of any Western Conference team.\nbarry.stavro@latimes.com}}
{{Dave Collins, The Associated Press\nHARTFORD, Conn. -- The developer of a school shooting video game condemned by parents of slain children has lost the ability to sell its products online after being dumped by PayPal.\nAcid Software said Tuesday that purchases of "Active Shooter" were "temporarily disabled" as its representatives tried to resolve the issues with PayPal. Acid's postings on Twitter and an online bulletin board included the hashtags "QuitCensoringUs," "FreedomOfExpression" and "WeWillBeBack."\nPayPal confirmed it closed the account.\n"PayPal has a longstanding, well-defined and consistently enforced Acceptable Use Policy, and regardless of the individual or organization in question, we work to ensure that our services are not used to accept payments for activities that promote violence," the company, based in San Jose, California, said in a statement Wednesday.\n"Active Shooter" is branded as a "SWAT simulator" that lets players choose between being an active shooter terrorizing a school or the SWAT team responding to the shooting. Players can choose a gun, grenade or knife, and civilian and police death totals are shown on the screen. Acid was selling an early version of the game online for $20 and plans to release a new version early next month.\nAcid recently set up two websites for "Active Shooter" after the game was removed from the webpages of video game marketplace Steam and crowdfunding site Indiegogo. The removals followed complaints and online petitions by anti-gun violence advocates including parents of children killed in school shootings in Parkland, Florida, where 17 students and staff died in February, and Newtown, Connecticut, where 26 children and staff died in 2012.\nA company that hosted the new websites removed them last week after receiving similar complaints. But Acid got the sites back up and running by switching to Russian servers, said an Acid representative, Ata Berdyev, of Seattle.\n"Active Shooter" was created by Anton Makarevskiy, a 21-year-old developer from Moscow, Russia, and is being marketed by his entity Acid Software. Berdyev is helping Makarevskiy promote the game.\nBerdyev said Wednesday that the future of the game could now be in doubt.\n"Seems like everyone in US trying to censor us, whilst not explaining what exactly we are violating," Berdyev said in a message to The Associated Press.}}
{{Here's the logic behind the NFL's assertion. If you pool together how many people watched the halftime show on all the platforms, that makes for a lot of people. Around 118 million viewers watched Gaga on TV.\nBut there were also plenty of people watching on the NFL's digital platforms, such as YouTube, Twitter, NFL.com and NFL Mobile. More than 150 million unique people watched the Gaga performance, according to the NFL. Read more here.}}
{{MUMBAI: Pop rock band Hanson have slammed pop star Justin Bieber's music and compared it to a sexual disease called "chlamydia".\nDuring a recent interview with Australian radio Hit 107 FM, the group slammed the Canadian singer by comparing his music to a sexual disease, reports aceshowbiz.com.\nWhen the brothers were asked to play a song guessing game called "Whose Song Is It Anyway?", they said that they didn't listen much to "modern" music.\n"Here's the deal with this game. We're gonna lose." So it didn't come as a surprise when they failed to guess most of the songs played for the game," one of the Hanson brothers said.\nHowever, when it came to Spanish singer Luis Fonsi's hit ‘Despacito’ remix, which featured Daddy Yankee and Bieber, the group decided to take a dig at the ‘Love Yourself’ hitmaker.\n"Can I just say I'm glad I didn't know what that was," one of the members said.\n"I prefer not to get any veneral diseases so whenever Justin Bieber gets near me or near my ears... it's just ear infections, they're terrible."\nThe band even compared Bieber to a furry animal and addressed his music as a sexual disease.\n"It's like hanging out with a koala. Chlamydia of the ear, it sucks," another Hanson brother added.\n(Source:IANS)}}
{{Columbus State University's Police Department welcomed Friday a new officer to their family. He's quickly becoming their most popular officer. People also can't seem to keep their hands off him. Meet Lt. Duk, the department's new police dog.}}
{{Zlatan Ibrahimovic celebrated Christmas in a way only he could this year...by making snow angels!\nThe Manchester United strike posted a video on Instagram showing him making the shapes in the snow with the comment "Dare to Zlatan".\nDressed only his underpants, Ibrahimovic did what many people do when it snows, while also performing a few sit-ups for good measure.\nHe then raced off camera to presumably warm up in the freezing conditions.\nDare to Zlatan A video posted by IAmZlatan (@iamzlatanibrahimovic) on Dec 24, 2016 at 3:31pm PST\nIbrahimovic has been in fine form for United this season after making the free transfer from Paris Saint-Germain, the 35-year-old scoring 16 goals in 25 appearances in all competitions.\nTen of those have come in his last nine appearances, ominous form ahead of their Premier League clash with Sunderland on Monday.}}
{{Get Liverpool FC updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nChristmas day is a time for eating, drinking and making merry.\nBut going to the match? It happened not that long ago.\nAsk an elderly relative to talk you through what Christmas was like in the 1950s.\n"We would get up, open our presents and head down to Goodison for the Christmas Day game", older Blues might tell you.\n"Get your coat - we're going to Anfield, big game against Grimsby today," a family at the other end of Stanley Park might suggest.\nIt seems alien now. But for decades it was the norm for teams to play on December 25.\nThey also played on Boxing Day back too, a tradition that has stood the test of time.\nThe Reds' last Christmas Day outing was a fearsome 3-1 loss against Grimsby Town way back in 1957.\nLiverpool legends such as Billy Liddell and Ronnie Moran had to postpone their turkey dinner as they watched Tony Rowley score the club's last ever Christmas Day goal in the defeat.\nIn those days they played the reverse fixture the very next day. It made sense back then.\nPhil Taylor's side were sunk by The Mariners again, this time 3-2 with a Liddell double and a Tony McNamara strike 15 minutes before time.\nBut Liverpool did enjoy some emphatic wins on Christmas Day.\nThey demolished Ipswich 6-2 in 1954, with Liddell netting four this time, and Newcastle 6-3 in 1925 with a hat-trick from Harry Chambers.\nGames were often contested against northern and midlands rivals to avoid too much travelling, the likes of Derby County, Bolton Wanderers, Burnley, Manchester United.\nSo don't feel too bad, for the players. They would have made it home in time for the Queen's speech.\nEverton's last Christmas Day clash has left the bragging rights forever in purgatory.\nVideo Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now Watch this video again Video will play in Liverpool team are all smiles as they train after Derby win Share this video Watch Next\nA 1-1 draw at Goodison Park against Bolton in 1957 was the last festive match for the Blues.\nGeorge Kirby was the man with the goal for Ian Buchan's side before a 5-1 thrashing against them at Burnden Park the day after.\nThe Blues were hammered a year earlier. A 6-0 drubbing courtesy of Tottenham may have left the brussel sprouts tasting extra bitter that year.\nThere were some particular thrillers which stand out, however.\nA 7-0 win over Derby in 1936, a 6-2 hammering of Sunderland two years before and a 5-4 thriller against the Black Cats in 1926 - which included four goals from Dixie Dean himself.\nNot even the great man was pardoned from Christmas Day duties.\nA quirky footballing tradition perhaps, but it is easy to see why it may have been popular for so long.\nNow 60 years on we await another round of Boxing Day games.\nNo train journeys to Blackpool or Oldham anymore.\nThe game has moved on.\nThe Blues will line up against Leicester City tomorrow, while Liverpool will have to wait until the 27th to face Mark Hughes' Stoke City.\nBut it makes you wonder how Christmas Day football would be received now, and whether it will ever see a revival.\nOr whether Boxing Day has become such a stalwart in the football calendar that it will forever eclipse the idea of a Christmas Day return.}}
{{Workers of the three Colleges of Education in Kwara State have embarked on an indefinite industrial action, accusing the state government of failing to meet their five-point demands.\nThe workers, under the aegis of Committee of Unions of Tertiary Institutions (CUTI) of Colleges of Education in Kwara State, had issued three-day warning striek a week ago for the government to act.\nThe News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that academic activities have been paralysed in the institutions located in Ilorin, Oro and Lafiagi.\nMr Abdulhammed Yusuf, Secretary, Senior Staff Union of Colleges of Education in the state, told NAN that the union had presented a five-point demand which the government allegedly failed to honour.\nHe said the demands include the release of funds for accreditation of courses, payment of backlog of salaries, 30 per cent salary increment, promotion and payment of promotion benefits that accrued since 2013.\n“In the last three years or so, there is hardly any year that we have not gone on strike, in fact, it seems the government is not ready to do anything except we go on strike.\n“Last month, it was with some efforts before the government paid us May 2017 salary, as it is, the government still owes us the salary of June and July 2017 here in College of Education, Ilorin,’’ Yusuf said.\nThe union leader also said the government was paying lip service to the issue of accreditation of courses run by the schools.\n“We have many demands on the ground for the government; Apart from salary, there is an issue of accreditation.\n“Most of the courses in the colleges have not been accredited, it means the students are just coming in running programmes that are not accredited.\n“The implication is that they will carry worthless certificates around if eventually, they finish here without accreditation.\n“In order to prevent this, we make it one of our cardinal points that government must address, yhey must accredit all these courses so that the students will not suffer.\n“Invariably, if the courses are not accredited, after sometimes, the news will soon spread that courses being run by tertiary institutions in Kwara are not accredited, which means people will start withdrawing their children from the colleges,’’\nOn the demand for salary increment, Yusuf explained that Kwara was the only state still paying 70 per cent of the approved salary scale for staff of the colleges.\nReacting, Dr Muideen Akorede, Senior Special Assistant to Gov. Abdulfatah Ahmed on Media and Communications, said the government was yet to receive official notice on the strike.\n“We are yet to receive official notification of the strike, however, we hope the lecturers and workers will continue to employ dialogue with the government on these matters as strikes don’t solve problems,’’}}
{{Let’s not forget where the push started. Comptroller Peter Franchot began this fight for this relief over five years ago, and he never stopped. He continued to advocate for the schools being ignored in failing, neglected buildings like Dulaney High.}}
{{Life was simpler when Frosty came to life, the Grinch’s heart grew, Rudolph showed off his nose and Herbie wanted to be a dentist.\nIt was nice when all I needed to worry about was whether Dad found the cherry “clear toy” lollipops. I liked the lemon, but adored cherry. He always made sure stockings had clear pops in them. They were shaped like toys and animals and were only found around the holidays back home.\nLifesavers in a special Christmas “book” were always present, too.\nI miss Dad’s traditions more than I expected to. Christmas to him meant chocolate drops in glass candy dishes, clear toy pops, Mom’s fudge and everyone convening at the house on Christmas Eve for a buffet dinner.\nHe was always very clear what that dinner should include: Ham, scalloped potatoes and green beans. My Mom’s touches included grape jelly crockpot meatballs, a weird nut log thing I never touched and mountains of cookies. I can still taste the crackers and cheese spread she always put out, too. It was Port Wine cheese and rye crackers.\nAs family trickled in, the kitchen and living room would fill up with about 18 to 20 folks and start to get very warm.\nI always preferred sitting with the adults over the kids, so I’d hang out at the big kitchen table with them while the other little people were playing games and watching Christmas movies on TV.\nDisagreements over the last year were put away, no one gave anyone a hard time over past failures or transgressions. My Dad considered it bad form to talk ill of anyone around the holidays.\nI think because he grew up during the hard economic times of the 1930s and was an adult during the rationing of WWII, he wanted his children to have an over-the-top Christmas. Each year, we’d get one “big” gift from the parents and five or six smaller ones. The big gift would be a bike, a sled, a kitchen set for our dolls, a stereo as we got older … things like that.\nMy 18th year, it was a cedar hope chest. Dad made it himself over six months and all that time, kept it a secret from me in his workshop. I still have it, along with the amazing rocking horse he made my daughter for her first year.\nMy Mom was the practical gift giver. Every year there would be packages of socks. Seriously. Blue, black or brown. The colors rotated between the three of us girls still at home. It was a running joke (to us, not her!).\nAnyway, as I share these simple memories of Christmas in Maryland, I wish for all our readers peace and joy this Christmas Day.\nBlessings, Robin}}
{{EES a popular Namibian artist has just released his own Braai spice called “Nam Flava Spice”, which is available at a filling quantity of 150ml, at a retail price of N$37 at any Pick n Pay, Woerman Brock, Spar and selected other stores.\nEES said that he has always put all his effort into making quality products and that there are to many fly by nights that just release cheap products to get rich overnight. “But it is time that Africa gets used to quality products and supports the local markets,” he added.\n“The Nam Flava Spice can be used for any type of meat or even vegetarian dish as it is totally vegan friendly, I know that we Namibians like to eat meat, but I did not want to leave anybody out,” he said.\nEES has always been a creative entrepreneur when it comes to releasing local items, from the Namibian Flag shoes to the vitamin energy drink “WUMA” and many other proud local products. The the Braai spice he teamed up with Namibian spice company NAMCAS to create it and it does not contain any Mono Sodium Glutamate, no colourants or preservatives. Therefore this makes it one of the few products on the market today that is this much health aware.}}
{{People should only participate in Christmas swims where medical support and lifeguards are available.\nThat’s according to Gerard O’Flynn Coast Guard Operations Manager.\nThe Irish Coast Guard and RNLI are advising people in Kerry, and those visiting the county, to stay safe in or near the water over the festive season.\nMr O’Flynn said the message from the Coast Guard is; ‘Stay Back, Stay High and Stay Dry’.\nValentia Coast Guard Rescue Coordination Centres, helicopter service and volunteer units will remain operational over the holiday period.\nThe public are reminded if they see anyone in danger at sea, on the coast or on cliffs to call 112.}}
{{What would be the front page of the Christmas Day Daily Herald without a painting from watercolorist Tom Lynch? Since 1992, a Lynch painting has been our Christmas card to our readers, always a scene that evokes memories of holidays and winters past. One of the nation's premier watercolorists, Lynch teaches out of his Naperville studio, has written seven books and appeared on PBS. For more on Tom, visit www.tomlynch.com.}}
{{Teen arrested for allegedly stealing songs from world-famous artists to sell for cryptocurrency\nThe 19-year-old allegedly stole unreleased music from the artists by hacking their websites and cloud-based accounts.}}
{{ANNAI Secondary, located in a small village in the Upper Takutu-Upper Essequibo Region of Guyana, is aiming to become the first team from the hinterland area to win the Digicel Schools Football tournament, but, standing in their way will be defending Champions, Chase Academy.\nThe two schools will collide today from 18.30hrs at the Leonora Track and Field Facility, to see who will win the seventh edition of Guyana’s most prestigious Schools Football tournament.\nChase Academy is the defending champions, while Annai will be playing in the finals for the first time.\nIn fact, both sides made their way to today’s show-down in dramatic fashion at Thurday’s semi-finals, which were also played at Leonora.\nIt took Chase Academy a 5-4 ‘Sudden-Death’ penalty-shootout to get over their arch nemesis and four-time champions, Christianburg/ Wismar Secondary (Multi), while Annai had to come from 4 – 0 down to beat Waramadong 7-5 in regular time.\nChase will be playing in their fourth consecutive final, winning once against the Christianburg Wismar Secondary.\nThe Linden-based school defeated Chase in the 2015 final, but the city side rebounded last year to beat ‘Multi’ 1 – 0 in the final at the Guyana National Stadium.\nChase’s Captain Jeremy Garrett touted Annai Secondary as one of the most difficult opposition, having faced them last year in the semi-finals.\nFrom the look of things, Garrett will have to play flawless football in order for his team to beat Annai Secondary, since the Region 9 team would’ve proven that no lead is unassailable in their clash with previous finalist, Waramadong.\nA strong representation from the Amerindian community is expected today at Leonora, and the two teams are promising the best Digicel Finals to-date.\nMeanwhile, the third place game between Christianburg /Wismar Secondary and Waramadong will take things back to the 2013 finals and what started out as one of the top rivalries of the Digicel Schools football tournament.\nIt will be the first time that ‘Multi’ will not be playing in the finals of the tournament, following their loss to the Government Technical Institute (GTI) in the inaugural tournament, and to Chase Academy last year.}}
{{Thursday, I compiled a list of the schools that Missouri has battled most often in football recruiting over the past five years. If you haven’t checked that out, you should. It shows which other sc...}}
{{India will face Canada in the Davis Cup World Group playoff tie on an indoor hard court in Northlands Coliseum, Edmonton in September later this year.\nThis will be the first meeting between the two countries, and Canada -- a seeded team ranked higher than India – got the right to host the match through draw of lots.\n(Read | Davis Cup: Ramkumar Ramanathan wins, Prajnesh bites the dust; India beat Uzbekistan 4-1)\n“The Davis Cup Play-Off tie between India and Canada will be held on an indoor court at the Northlands Coliseum, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada from 15th to 17th September 2017,” a statement from the All India Tennis Association said.\n“The winning team will be promoted to World Group in 2018.”\n(Read | Rohan Bopanna: 7-year itch & freedom - expect more Slams from French Open champ)\nIndia had defeated Uzbekistan 4-1 in Bangalore earlier this year to reach the playoffs round for the fourth successive year.\n(Read | Australian former tennis player charged with match-fixing)\nIndia would be happy to have avoided higher-ranked countries such as Argentina, Germany and Czech Republic in the draw, which was conducted in London.\nLast year in the playoffs, India had lost 0-5 to Spain, who went on to reach the quarterfinals, losing to a Novak Djokovic-led Serbia 4-1.}}
{{On June 21 and 22 the Green River High School football program will be participating in a summer camp in Evanston. The Wolves will be lead by their first year head coach Marty Wrage.\nThe camp will start at 10:45 am on Thursday and will conclude 12:30 pm on Friday. The camp will have college coaches coming from Colorado Mesa University and Western State out of Colorado. The camp will help to improve the kids offensive and defensive skills. The kids will participate in different drills from 7 on 7 to regular scrimmage time.\nAdvertisement\nCoach Wrage comes from a very experienced background starting with coaching the Quarterbacks and Receivers at Chadron State from 1988-1992. He then finished his degree over the next three years. Marty headed back to coaching at Ogallala high school in Nebraska from 1995-2007. Coach Wrage then took over at Greybull from 2008-2017.\nAdvertisement\nThis will be their last camp until the season starts with their first practice starting on August 13.}}
{{WOODSTOCK, N.H. (AP) - A three-day immigration checkpoint in northern New Hampshire has resulted in the arrest of 5 people living in the U.S. illegally.\nThe operation ran from Friday through Sunday in Woodstock along Interstate 93. People arrested were from Brazil, China, Ecuador, El Salvador and Mexico. The U.S. Border Patrol says they were turned over to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.\nThe same area was the site of a Memorial Day weekend checkpoint that led to 17 arrests. Agents also seized drugs and drug paraphernalia, including marijuana.\nEarlier this month, the ACLU of New Hampshire obtained law enforcement emails that revealed there are six checkpoints planned for this year.\nAgents are allowed to set up checkpoints within 100 miles of the border. Woodstock is about 90 miles from the Canadian border.\nCopyright © 2018 The Washington Times, LLC.}}
{{Potty training a toddler is, well, not exactly the most fun thing you'll ever do with them. Even though the experience can be stressful and frustrating for everyone involved, it's really important to try and make it as exciting and fun for your little one as possible. One way to do that is to find the perfect songs for potty training toddlers. Songs with catchy rhymes and bouncy beats will get and keep their attention, and hopefully make the process a little easier.\nBecause when you make using the potty seem like something enjoyable, toddlers are more likely to pick up on it and learn, and they'll even start to look forward to doing it, which is definitely what you want. Playing a song they love that is all about doing numbers one and two on the potty can make it a fun activity for them. Plus, research shows that music can help toddlers learn and develop important life skills. So not only will these songs make them excited to try sitting on their little toilets, but they will also make it easier for them to learn and remember the skills. Bonus: playing these can keep them engaged enough to just sit on the toilet until magic happens.\nAnd fortunately, there are plenty of options out there, and you don't need to spend money to take advantage of them. Below are the best songs for potty training toddlers. Get ready to have these stuck in your head for days (although, in the end, it will totally be worth it).\n1 "The Poop Song" The last thing you want is an accident when your little one has to go number two. It happens, but if they continue listening to "The Poop Song," it might happen less... and eventually not at all. This educational video goes through each and every step of what a toddler has to do when they need to go number two, from the moment they start to feel it might happen, to the end after they flush. It's informative and very catchy.\n2 "Potty Time" Theme Song While this song doesn't go into detail on exactly what kids need to do, it definitely prepares them for potty training. It's also super catchy and upbeat, so they'll love listening and singing along, and they'll probably love watching the kids in the video. It even teaches kids how to say "potty time" in sign language and helps them learn how to recognize when they need to go.\n3 Elmo's Potty Time Little fans of Sesame Street will want to watch this video over and over, since it features toddler-favorite Elmo learning how to use the potty. It's not super detailed or informative, but it's really fun and will definitely get them excited to learn how to potty train. Put this on whenever you're ready to start teaching them, and I guarantee they'll get into it.\n4 "When You Have To Go Potty, Stop and Go Right Away" Most of the time, kids have accidents because they don't want to listen to their bodies and stop what they're doing to head to the bathroom. They might just need a little reassurance that doing that is totally fine, and that's exactly what this Daniel Tiger song gives them. It encourages them to stop whatever they're doing, go to the potty, and then head right back to their toys or friends (after washing their hands, of course).\n5 Learn With Little Baby Bum: Potty Song This incredibly catchy potty song (trust me, you'll be singing this for hours after hearing it) will help your toddler realize it's time to ditch the diapers. It will make them excited about sitting on the potty, and will also show them that it's OK if they have an accident sometimes — as long as they get up and try again the next day.\n6 "I Can Pee and Poop On The Potty" This very repetitive, but catchy, song shows little ones that it's exciting to be able to pee and poop on the potty. It goes through the very basic steps (sitting on the potty, washing their hands, etc.), and while there are more informative options out there, this one is still fun for them to listen to and watch.\n7 Potty Training Song It wouldn't be a list of songs for toddlers without something from CoComelon, right? This song is a really great way for tots to learn because it shows a slightly older kid teaching a smaller kid to use the potty. There's nobody little kids love to listen to more than big kids! It goes through the basic steps and is very informative with their favorite characters.\n8 Bear In The Big Blue House: Potty Chair Song This song from Bear In the Big Blue House is very detailed and will help them learn everything they need to know. I love how it starts out by explaining why kids should want to get rid of their diapers. With lyrics like "you look so suave and debonair, in your pair of underwear," kids will be excited to "grow up" and get on the potty.\n9 Sitting On The Potty This cute song will make toddlers feel so excited to use the potty because it will make them feel so proud of themselves. It goes through the basics, it's catchy and upbeat, and it features bright and fun graphics that they'll want to watch over and over again.\n10 Pinkfong: The Potty Song This song goes through pretty much every step of going to the potty, so it's very informative and helpful. The video itself is a lot of fun to watch: there's a talking toilet bowl, dancing toilet paper, and lots of cute and detailed illustrations, and it's repetitive, which is always good for toddlers. (Plus, it's the same brand responsible for "Baby Shark," so your kids are bound to love it.)\n11 Toilet Time Is Fun This video has the cutest visuals, and I love how it shows a little kid (Timmy) struggling to actually use the potty. He can't go poop at one point, and the song addresses it a little. This is great, since kids will definitely experience that, and it can be super frustrating for them!\n12 The Rocking Potty Rock This is another song that shows kids why they shouldn't wait too long to use the potty. It will hopefully encourage them to stop playing when they feel like they need to go, and head right to the bathroom. The video is cute and fun for them to watch as well.\nRemember: potty training requires a lot of patience for the whole family. It can feel impossible at times, but you've all got this! And, whenever your little one needs some extra help, try playing these songs. Or just play one every day, even before they start learning how to use the potty---it could get them excited to get to that point. Good luck!}}
{{NEW YORK (AP) — A teenage hacker was arrested in England on charges of stealing unreleased songs from international music artists and selling them for cryptocurrency, authorities in New York and London said.\nThe 19-year-old man was arrested Thursday in Ipswich, England, Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. said. His name was withheld by authorities in both countries because of the United Kingdom's privacy laws.\nThe law enforcement authorities did not say which recording artists' music was stolen. The man accessed the musicians' websites and cloud-based accounts illegally, they said.\nVance's office said it began investigating after receiving referrals from music management companies.}}
{{"I was born a seemingly normal and healthy baby," my patient Maria Isabel Bueso Barrera told Congress on Wednesday morning. Her deteriorating health baffled her doctors in Guatemala, who sent her to the United States, where she received a terrifying diagnosis: the exceedingly rare Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome. "My life expectancy was very short," she explained. "Doctors said I may not live to my teens." And before that could come blindness, hearing loss, heart attacks and a host of other maladies.\nNow, Bueso faces a new threat to her health: irrational changes in U.S. immigration policy.\nBueso is 24 now. When she was 7, I invited her to the United States for the clinical trial of a groundbreaking treatment. Her participation helped win that treatment Food and Drug Administration approval, and she continues to be a part of follow-up studies that help doctors and scientists better treat people with her condition, also known as MPS-6. That treatment has involved Bueso receiving a six-hour infusion at UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital Oakland every week for the past 16 years - a treatment she continues to receive here weekly.\nYou would think a grateful country might reward Bueso for the role she has played in advancing this medical treatment by allowing her to stay in the United States and continuing to receive the treatment she helped prove effective. Instead, on Aug. 7, she received a letter from the Department of Homeland Security informing her that she had 33 days to leave the United States or face deportation. While the Trump administration has backed off from that deadline for Bueso and other patients like her, their petitions to stay remain under review. That's a mistake that could cost patients such as Isabel Bueso their lives and the rest of us the advances we gain from their willingness to help.\nResearchers often can't find enough American rare-disease patients to conduct sufficiently large clinical trials. So they look abroad for patients like Bueso. Each year, U.S. scientists invite hundreds of sick foreigners to participate in this research. To continue their treatments, the patients' families apply for participation in a program called "medical deferred action" that allows patients and their families to stay in the United States for renewable two-year periods while undergoing lifesaving medical care. Roughly 1,000 migrants apply for medical deferred action each year. This is a small number relative to the overall levels of immigration, but without these immigrants, researchers couldn't develop cutting-edge treatments and cures that benefit generations of Americans.\nMPS-6 is such a condition. It had baffled Bueso's Guatemalan doctors for good reason: Fewer than 2,000 people worldwide are affected by it. The clinical trial in which I asked her to participate initially did not have enough participants; Isabel's willingness to be involved, and her family's willingness to relocate to support her, helped make it possible for the trial to move forward. Two years later, it led to the FDA approval of Naglazyme, a first-of-its-kind enzyme-replacement therapy that extends patients' lives by more than a decade, on average.\nThis therapy has helped keep Bueso alive, and it allowed her to graduate summa cum laude from California State University, East Bay and to make other contributions, including establishing a scholarship for students with disabilities. Her family members, meanwhile, have forged new careers and new connections in their church and community here in the United States.\nIt might be slightly less cruel to ask the Buesos to disrupt their lives again if the therapy their daughter helped develop and receives weekly at UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital Oakland was available in Guatemala. It is not. If she's deported, she'll die within a year.\nFortunately, after widespread public backlash, the Trump administration agreed to reevaluate Isabel Bueso's petition - and those of others that benefit from the deferred-action program. But there's no guarantee that Trump administration officials will allow Isabel and other patients to stay. Indeed, administration officials continue to call their efforts to restrict the program "appropriate" - and they've yet to say whether they'll grant extensions or continue the program.\nThis is remarkably shortsighted. More than 30 million Americans suffer from a rare disease. Ninety-five percent of these conditions lack a single approved treatment. American scientists are working hard to find new treatments, but no single country has enough patients to conduct trials on these ultra-rare ailments. If we want the United States to continue leading the world in medical innovation, we will need patients from around the world to participate in our clinical trials.\nThere is nothing harder for a pediatrician than explaining to young parents that their precious child is suffering from a rare genetic disease for which there is no cure. All we can provide to them is the hope that in their child's lifetime, medical advances will be made.\nThe sacrifice of patients such as Isabel Bueso help provide those families with hope. These families deserve our heartfelt gratitude, not a deportation notice.\n—Paul Harmatz is a pediatric gastroenterologist who practices at UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital Oakland, California.}}
{{Legislation quickly passed by North Carolina's lawmakers would require new primaries in a still-undecided U.S. House race marred with ballot fraud allegations, potentially replacing the Republican nominee at the center of the disputed race.}}
{{The video will start in 8 Cancel\nClick to play Tap to play\nGet daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nTurkey is a Christmas Day tradition, but it's not a meat most of us tend to eat on a regular basis.\nIt can be easy to overcook your poultry, which causes it to dry out and lack a juicy flavour - however this can be avoided. . .\nWith a little patience and preparation you can cook a perfect succulent and moist turkey, fit for all the family.\nWe've rounded up some beautiful recipes you can make at home, from traditional offerings to a honey glazed version.\nSucculent turkey\nPrep time: 20 minutes\nCooking time: 5 hours, including chilling and simmer time\nServes 10\nIngredients\n1 turkey, about 6kg\n1 bay leaf\n2 onions\n1 carrot\n100g unsalted butter, softened\nFresh parsley and thyme\n2 lemons\nMethod\nRemove the giblets on Christmas Eve and put everything except the liver in a pan, along with the bay leaf, one onion, the carrot and a few sprigs of parsley and thyme. Add 700ml water and cover the pan. Simmer for two hours, skimming the surface occasionally. Strain, cool and refrigerate. Also the day before, mix the butter with 1 tbsp each chopped parsley and thyme and the finely grated zest and juice of half a lemon. Season, cover with cling film and chill. Remove from the fridge one hour before you prepare the turkey. On Christmas Day, wipe the inside and outside of the turkey with damp kitchen paper. Prick the other lemon with a fork and put in the turkey cavity with a sprig of thyme and the other onion. Carefully lift the skin around the neck so you can get your hand underneath, then rub half the herb butter between the skin and the flesh. Rub the rest over the skin. Put the turkey in a roasting tin, breast-side up. Cover loosely with foil. Pre-heat the oven to 190°C/170°C Fan/Gas 5. Calculate the cooking time, allowing 20 minutes per kg, plus 90 minutes. For birds up to 4kg cook for 20 minutes per kg, plus 70 minutes. Baste every hour. Remove the foil for the last 30 minutes to crisp the skin. Test if the turkey is cooked by piercing the thickest part of the thigh and the breast with a skewer. If the juices run clear, it's cooked. If they are pink, return the turkey to the oven for another 20 minutes and keep checking until cooked. Move the turkey to a platter, tilting the bird so that the juices in the cavity run out into the roasting pan. Cover with a double layer of foil, then with a tea towel wrung out in hot water. Leave to rest in a warm place for 30-60 minutes. Pour off most of the fat from the roasting tin and make gravy using the giblet stock, or with a stock cube.\nFoolproof turkey\n(Image: Everhot)\nPrep time: 15 minutes\nCooking time: 17 hours, including overnight cooking\nServes 10\nIngredients\n6kg turkey\n1 bottle of wine (white or red)\n2 pints of good stock (chicken, beef or vegetable)\nSeasoning, to taste\nMethod (timings are given for lunch to be served at 1.30pm)\nSet your oven at 80˚C, 176˚F, Gas Mark 1 and at around 7.30pm on Christmas Eve, place your turkey on a rack in a roasting pan, crown side up. Pour over the wine, stock and seasoning (if using) and bring to the boil on your hob. Cover tightly with foil and place in the oven. At 10am on Christmas morning, turn the oven up to 200˚C (or move to another oven set at that temperature). Keep the foil over the bird until noon then remove it to let it go golden. Baste at 20 minute intervals. At 1pm the turkey will be done but check with a skewer inserted into the thickest part of the breast – all juices should run clear – then take the bird out of the oven and cover with a double layer of foil to rest until you start carving – no sooner than 1.25pm.\nJack Daniel’s Tennessee Honey glazed turkey with honey glaze gravy\nPrep time: 30 minutes\nCook time: 3–3½ hours approximately\nServes: 8\nIngredients:\n5-6 kilo fresh turkey, giblets and neck removed (used later to make a stock)\n2 sprigs each of fresh thyme, rosemary and sage\nHead of garlic, cut in half\n1 tbsp olive oil\n2 tbsp sea salt and 1 tbsp pepper\nFor the honey glaze:\n100ml Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Honey, cooked down to 50ml\n50g unsalted butter\n20ml soy sauce\n40ml runny honey\n10-15ml hot sauce (Tabasco or Louisiana)\n1 tbsp dark marmalade\n1 tbsp cider vinegar\nStock for the honey gravy:\n120ml Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Honey\n57g (4 tbsp) turkey drippings fat or butter\n50g (4 tbsp) flour\n600ml of stock for gravy\nMethod for the honey gravy stock:\nPlace oil in a large and heavy gauge sauce pan, sauté the neck, giblets and vegetables and cook 5 minutes. Add stock and simmer for one hour, skimming off fat as it simmers. Strain the stock and hold in sauce pan until needed for gravy. Should have 500ml, if not add some water. Put to one side, you will use this later.\nMethod for the honey glaze turkey:}}
{{We have one Fatherland, one people and a common future\nVladimir Putin We have one Fatherland, one people and a common future}}
{{Canada has been granted consular access to Michael Spavor, the second Canadian detained in China this week.\nCanada's ambassador to China John McCallum met with Spavor on Sunday, according to a statement from Global Affairs Canada.\n"Canadian consular officials continue to provide consular services to him and his family and will continue to seek further access to Mr. Spavor," the statement said.\nSpavor and former Canadian diplomat Michael Kovrig were taken into custody earlier this week in Beijing, days after the RCMP arrested a top Chinese business leader transiting through Vancouver at the behest of the United States. The U.S. wants Meng Wanzhou, the chief financial officer of Huawei Technologies, to be extradited to the U.S. to face fraud charges.\nMcCallum met with Kovrig, who is on a leave of absence from Global Affairs Canada, on Friday. He served as a diplomat in China until 2016 and has been working for the International Crisis Group, a non-governmental agency. China says he was arrested for harming its national security.\nAccording to today's statement, consular visits generally aim to assess the well-being of the person being detained, clarify the reason for the detention, provide guidance on legal issues and act as a link between the detainee and loved ones. Officials are working to get further access to both detainees.\nReason for detention unclear\nGlobal Affairs would not disclose the reason for either Kovrig's or Spavor's detainment, citing provisions of the Privacy Act.\nBut according to the Beijing News, a state-run Chinese newspaper, the two were detained on suspicion of engagement in activities that endanger China's state security.\nIn an interview on Friday with the Canadian Press, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau criticized China's actions, calling them "not acceptable." When asked if the detention of the two Canadian men was intended as retaliation, a spokesperson for China's Foreign Ministry said they were being handled according to Chinese law.\nHuawei chief financial officer Meng Wanzhou was granted bail earlier this week. (Darryl Dyck/Canadian Press)\nU.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo also urged China on Friday to end the "unlawful detention" of the two Canadians.\n"We ask all nations of the world to treat other citizens properly and the detention of these two Canadian citizens in China ought to end," Pompeo said in Washington, alongside Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland.\nPompeo moved to temper an earlier statement by U.S. Donald Trump this week, who mused he might intervene in the Meng case if it helped him get a trade deal with China.\nPompeo said the extradition request for Meng isn't being used as political leverage in the trade talks with China.\nIn Washington, the arrests dominated questions Pompeo and Freeland took after a meeting that also included Defence Minister Harjit Sajjan and U.S. Defence Secretary Jim Mattis.\nThe two foreign ministers tried to distance the extradition process that is now in the Canadian courts from politics. Freeland said Friday's discussions focused on upholding the rule of law, and ensuring Meng's right to due process is respected and that the ongoing legal process remains free of politics.\n"Canada, in detaining Ms. Meng, was not making a political judgment. In Canada there has been, to this point, no political interference in this issue at all. For Canada, this is a question of living up to our international treaty obligations and following the rule of law," Freeland said. "The extradition process is a criminal-justice process. This is not a tool that should be used for politicized ends."\n'Canada's being used and manipulated'\nBut critics say Canada is being disingenuous in insisting the arrest is not about politics.\nThe arrest of a Chinese tech executive is yet another example that the U.S. is creating "a new Cold War" in international trade, says economist Jeffrey Sachs, who adds that Canada is abetting its southern neighbour.\nSachs said it's a "pretty well-known American approach to use its power to try and break the economic momentum of a rival," adding that it now sees China as a substantial rival.\nThe fraud allegations against Meng centre around the relationship between Huawei and a Hong Kong company called Skycom, that did business in Iran.\nAccording to U.S. prosecutors, Skycom was a "hidden" subsidiary of Huawei. Meng once served on Skycom's board of directors but she says Huawei sold its interest in Skycom and she stepped down from the board.\nIran is subject to U.S. sanctions and banks can be found criminally liable if they help move money out of a sanctioned country and into the broader global banking system.\nWatch: Jeffrey Sachs on Huawei executive's arrest\nJeffrey Sachs says Canada is caught in the middle of a diplomatic spat between two superpowers. 1:13\nSachs believes the arrests are a consequence for Canada's recent involvement in Washington's campaign to levy heavy-handed punishment on Meng over perceived Iran sanctions violations.\n"I think Canada's doing the bidding of United States policy that is not well-controlled or well-modulated," he said.\n"Maybe Canada's being used and manipulated, not only vis-à-vis China, but for the United States to try to show anyone: 'You dare cross us on any business with Iran, you're going to pay a price.'"\nWith files from Justin Li and the Canadian Press}}
{{A Canadian man has been sentenced to 15 months in a U.S. prison nearly 20 years after he smuggled immigrants across the Detroit River.\nJustice moved slowly in the case of Thanh Nguyen because he fled home to Ontario, Canada, and didn't appear for his sentence in 2000.\nNguyen, now 42 years old, was arrested last summer in Windsor, Ontario, a city across the river from Detroit. He was sentenced Thursday for smuggling immigrants on a boat back in 1999. Nguyen apologized to a judge, saying he was immature at the time.\nIt's unclear why it took so long to find him. Defense attorney Marshall Goldberg says Nguyen wasn't "living in the shadows." He had a driver's license and operated businesses in the Windsor area.\nCopyright 2017 Associated Press. All rights reserved.}}
{{Since the Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced the Trump administration's "zero tolerance" immigration policy on May 7, a reported 2,000 immigrant children have been forcefully separated from their parents. Horrific stories of young children being taken from their breastfeeding parents, and a 10-year-old child with Down syndrome being separated from her mother, have gripped the nation and, most recently, news casters. On Tuesday night viewers watched Rachel Maddow cry on air as she attempted to read a breaking news bulletin from the Associated Press, describing what the Trump administration is calling "tender age" shelters and the conditions of the babies and toddlers who are being sent to them. And in that moment, the wall between news broadcaster and viewer was broken. In that moment, Maddow was all of us. Or, well, at least some of us.\nThe moment occurred during the end of her show, and while Maddow was attempting to read a news report from the Associated Press. The report announced the existence of at least three Texas facilities currently holding migrant babies and toddlers. Unable to read the descriptions, and at first asking her producers to put a graphic on screen in an attempt to take the cameras off her, Maddow abruptly ended her show, saying, "I think I’m going to have to hand this off, sorry."\nMaddow later apologized for crying on air via Twitter, writing, "Ugh, I'm sorry. If nothing else, it is my job to actually be able to speak while I'm on TV. What I was trying to do — when I suddenly couldn't say/do anything —was read this lede." She then shared what she intended to read on air, but couldn't get through. It reads as follows:\nTrump administration officials have been sending babies and other young children forcibly separated from their parents to at least three “tender age” shelters in South Texas. Lawyers and medical providers who have visited the "tender age" shelters described play rooms of crying preschool-age children in crisis. Decades after the nation’s child welfare system ended the use of orphanages over concerns about the lasting trauma to children, the administration is standing up new institutions to hold Central American toddlers that the government separated from their parents. The thought that they are going to be putting such little kids in an institutional setting? I mean it is hard for me to even wrap my mind around it,” said Kay Bellor, vice president for programs at Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, “Toddlers are being detained."\nMaddow ended her Twitter thread by, again, apologizing for crying, writing, "Again, I apologize for losing it there for a moment. Not the way I intended that to go, not by a mile." She then linked to the AP story; a subtle encouragement to her viewers and Twitter followers to read it in its entirety.\nMeanwhile, on Fox News, former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski replied to Zac Petkana, a Democratic strategist, recalling a report of a 10-year-old girl with Down syndrome being forcefully separated from her mother under the Trump administration's "zero tolerance" policy by saying, in a mocking tone, "Whomp whomp."\nThere have been harrowing reports of migrant children being detained in cages, sometimes 20 to a cage. In photos you can see children sleeping on mats on the ground, covered in space blankets. In audio released by ProPublica on Monday, you can hear immigrant children cry out for their mothers and fathers as they are being separated inside a U.S. Customs and Border Protection detention center. You can also hear agents mocking the children, one saying, "Well, we have an orchestra here. What’s missing is a conductor.”\nAccording to a Quinnipiac University poll released Monday, two-thirds of Americans don't agree with the Trump administration's decision to separate migrant children from their families. The same poll, however, found that 55 percent of Republican voters do support the policy.\nThe collective conscience of the United States of America is being tested, and there seems to be two polarizing reactions to Trump's "zero tolerance" policy: be so impacted by the thought of children in cages, crying for their mothers, that you break down in tears... or simply saying "whomp whomp" before you look the other way.}}
{{The customer joked with Denny’s waitress Trisha Murphy of Maine he’d “come be Santa” for her kids.\nUh-huh.\nThis mom of four was stressed. Her car was towed to Bangor, leaving her with a $735 bill, she was picking up extra work shifts, odd jobs, a sitter to pay for the extra work and tips were only trickling in. She didn’t know how she would swing Christmas for her kids.\nNow this wanna-be Santa was insisting she cash out the bill for himself and his two dining companions.\nMurphy obliged and described on her Facebook post that she had seriously misjudged the customer who kept asking her about her family’s Christmas. (She kept the details to him scant, saying, “I’m in it for my kids,” and that’s when he said he’d be their Santa. As she swiped his card at the register, “he had a huge, ear to ear, smile.”)\n“The receipt printed and I almost collapsed! I looked up at this grungy looking man, my face as white as snow, and tears in my eyes.”\nThe customer left her a $500 tip.\nSign up Like this article? Sign up for the All The Moms email newsletter to get our top stories in your inbox every morning Success Thanks for signing up.\nYou'll be waking up a little more awesome tomorrow. Whoa! Something went wrong. Try again?\nThe post continues that the mystery Santa savior smiled, left with a “merry Christmas dear,” and one final check on Murphy to make sure she was OK after receiving such a hefty tip.\nMurphy wrote that the experience made her a believer. In human kindness.\n“I don’t know this man’s name, but I hope he realizes that he literally saved Christmas for my children and I! Good people do still exist. Yesterday was the day I met Santa!”\nLike All the Moms?\nFollow us on Facebook.\nREAD MORE:\n10 feelings every procrastinating parent has right before Christmas\nDad writes sweetest Holiday elf poem for son who is all grown up\nYouTube impressionist reads ‘Night Before Christmas’ in hilarious celeb voices\nToddlers battle over baby Jesus during Nativity program at church}}
{{0 George Clooney, Amal Clooney donate $100,000 to help immigrant children separated from families\nGeorge Clooney and Amal Clooney are donating $100,000 on behalf of their foundation to help immigrant children who have been separated from their families under the Trump administration.\n>> Read more trending news\nIn a statement to People, the couple, who welcomed twins Ella and Alexander last year, said, “At some point in the future our children will ask us: ‘Is it true, did our country really take babies from their parents and put them in detention centers?’ And when we answer yes, they’ll ask us what we did about it. What we said. Where we stood. We can’t change this administration’s policy but we can help defend the victims of it.\n“Today, the Clooney Foundation for Justice will donate $100,000 to the Young Center for Immigrant Children’s Rights.”\nThe Young Center, founded in 2004, works to have children in immigration proceedings seen as children, keeping their best interests in the process.\n“This Administration’s policy disregards international law and basic principles of human decency. To treat children in such a cruel manner not only violates their legal rights but also their basic needs,” The Young Center’s executive director, Maria Woltjen, said in a statement. “We are doing everything we can to advocate on behalf of the thousands of children who are separated and alone, and we are grateful for the generous support of George and Amal Clooney and the Clooney Foundation for Justice — it could not be more vital at this time.”\nThe donation is the latest from the couple, whose foundation has also sponsored the resettlement of Syrian and Yazidi refugees in the U.S. and the opening of eight public schools in Lebanon for Syrian refugee children. In February, the couple donated $500,000 to Parkland shooting survivors.\nFor more information on how to help families separated at the border, click here.\n© 2018 Cox Media Group.}}
{{Ryan Garcia will put his undefeated record on the line Saturday, Sept. 14, against Avery Sparrow in Carson, Calif.\nIf you can't be in SoCal to catch the action live, you can still watch the bout live and exclusively on DAZN.\nThe 21-year-old Garcia (18-0, 15 KOs) has won his first 18 fights, with 15 coming via knockout. A belt won't will be on the line when he and Sparrow (10-1, 3 KOs) enter the ring in Carson, Calif., on Saturday, but Garcia will be looking to continue the flawless start to his professional career and put himself in position for a title bout in the near future.\nJoin DAZN to watch Garcia-Sparrow and 100+ fight nights a year\nGarcia and Sparrow are the co-main event on the Jaime Munguia-Patrick Allotey fight card. Munguia and Allotey are fighting for the WBO junior middleweight title, and elsewhere on the card, Franchon Crews-Dezurn and Alejandra Jimenez will battle for the WBC super middleweight belt.\nWith over 3 million Instagram followers, Garcia attracts massive hype — and an equally large target on his back. He should face a significant test from Sparrow, whose only blemish on his professional record is a disqualification. If Garcia is to keep the naysayers at bay and keep himself on track to fight Gervonta Davis going forward, he can't afford a loss to Sparrow.\nHere's your complete guide to the Ryan Garcia vs. Avery Sparrow fight, which is available exclusively for streaming on DAZN rather than traditional pay-per-view, along with updated betting odds, what's elsewhere on the card and more.\nWhat time does Ryan Garcia's fight start?\nDate: Saturday, Sept. 14\nSaturday, Sept. 14 Start time: 9 p.m. (main card)\n9 p.m. (main card) Live streaming: Only on DAZN\nRyan Garcia vs. Avery Sparrow will take place Saturday, Sept. 14. Neither fighter has been in the ring since March. Garcia defeated Jose Lopez March 30, and Sparrow took a majority decision over Henry Lundy on March 15.\nGarcia and Sparrow are the co-main card with Munguia-Allotey, so they can be expected to enter the ring around 10:30-11 p.m. ET.\nHow to watch, live stream Garcia vs. Sparrow\nThe Ryan Garcia vs. Avery Sparrow fight is not available via traditional pay-per-view methods. Instead, fans in Canada can sign up to watch the fight on DAZN, the global live-sports streaming service that has exclusive broadcasting rights of fights involving Golden Boy boxers such as Garcia and Canelo Alvarez.\nDAZN is available on a variety of platforms, including Roku, Apple TV, Google Chromecast, iOS, Android, Xbox One, Playstation 4 and Playstation 3, as well as Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer and Safari browsers via DAZN.com.\nHow much does the Munguia vs. Allotey fight card cost?\nA new subscriber to DAZN can sign up for a monthly subscription or annual pass to watch the fight. The annual pass — which includes access to all of DAZN’s live events, as well as highlights, replays, behind-the-scenes features, original shows and live reports — is $150, which averages out to $12.50 a month. For those who want a monthly plan instead of the longer-term value, fight fans can sign up for a month-by-month option for $20.\nFor current subscribers, the fight is already included as part of your plan.\nWhere is the Garcia vs. Sparrow fight taking place?\nRyan Garcia and Avery Sparrow will fight at Dignity Health Sports Park (formerly StubHub Center and Home Depot Center) in Carson, Calif. It will be Garcia's second fight at Dignity Health Sports Park — previously having fought Jayson Velez in May 2018 — and his 10th in California. Sparrow has never fought away from the East Coast.\nRyan Garcia record and bio\nName: Ryan "Kingry" Garcia\nNationality: American\nBorn: Aug. 8, 1998\nHeight: 5-11\nReach: 70 inches\nTotal fights: 18\nRecord: 18-0 with 15 knockouts.\nAvery "A Plus" Sparrow record and bio\nName: Avery "A Plus" Sparrow\nNationality: American\nBorn: Jan. 2, 1994\nHeight: 5-7\nReach: 72 inches\nTotal fights: 11\nRecord: 10-1 with 3 knockouts.\nMunguia vs. Allotey fight card}}
{{Alex Postma (far right) and his teammates at Topsail High School in Hampstead, North Carolina. (Photo courtesy Bonnie Emmertz)\nIn November, a couple months after his last crash, Alex Postma told his father, Mike, that he wanted to start playing baseball again. For the previous three years, as his life vacillated between crashes and the fallout from them, he rarely picked up a ball. Mike asked what was different this time. Alex said he was ready.\nWhen Alex crashes, he sequesters himself in his room and doesn’t leave. He used to hide under the bed or in a closet. Now 17, Alex simply sleeps more than half the day. The anxiety strangles him. The depression envelopes him. Fatigue, stress, illness – they all precipitate the crashes. He has tried therapy and medication. Nothing works. Once a crash starts, it is a runaway train. “I just want to be normal,” he often tells his mother, Julie, and Mike. “I just want to be normal.” Mike and Julie always tell him he is.\nMike – an educator who specializes in helping twice-exceptional kids like Alex, who are gifted but also have special needs – calls the episodes “crashes” to illustrate how visceral they are. “When he’s in those funks, he becomes non-verbal, almost non-functional,” Mike said. “We struggle to get him out of his bedroom. Mental illness is so stigmatized, but it’s real, and people just don’t seem to understand it shuts you down.”\nIt’s what made Alex’s request in November so out of character. Going out for the baseball team at Topsail High School in Hampstead, North Carolina, a coastal town about 100 miles north of Myrtle Beach, would force him to spend every afternoon around kids he barely knew. Even though Alex was a senior, most of his high school education took place at home. He would attend school for a few weeks, crash and spend the rest of the year on a homebound curriculum, taking the school’s courses from his house.\nAlex started training six days a week and attending optional workouts for the baseball team. At 6-foot-2, 170 pounds, he was a phenomenal athlete. He started dunking a basketball as a ninth grader. When he did a standing backflip at the gym during the baseball workouts, the coaching staff wondered who the kid was. He was no charity case. He earned his spot on the Topsail varsity team and served as a pinch runner for the catcher, who under state rules could be replaced every time he got on base. Topsail was one of the best 3A teams in North Carolina. Things went so well with the baseball team, Alex had gone back to school without crashing.\nStory Continues\n“The baseball field is his domain, his place of solace and comfort,” Mike said. “That was his place he felt normal.”\nThe investigation\nThis should be an uplifting story about the gift of baseball, the power of acceptance, the way a team and community rallied around a boy – and it is. This is also a story of small-town infighting, of a dubious investigation and opaque second investigation, of a governing body struggling to reconcile the letter of the law with its spirit – and of that same boy who today languishes in his room and sleeps away most of the day, the entirety of it all sending him crashing again.\nMay 1 was Senior Day at Topsail. The Pirates were cruising to another playoff berth, and Alex, wearing his No. 9 jersey, walked arm in arm with his mother as the rest of the team clapped and celebrated the seniors. Julie beamed. All the years, all the struggles, all the moments where she simply wished Alex could be happy. Finally, he was.\nAlex did not realize he was the topic of another conversation that day, too. Berry Simmons, the principal of Topsail, later told parents that he had been informed of a possible eligibility issue with Alex that Tuesday. (He still has yet to indicate to parents or publicly where he received the information.) The next day, Simmons called Aaron Rimer, Topsail’s baseball coach, and warned him of the potential problem. On Thursday, the Pirates played their final regular-season game – without Alex in uniform. Simmons pulled the baseball team out of class Friday and gathered it in the auditorium to deliver the news: Topsail would be self-reporting an eligibility violation and forfeiting every game except the final one. The Pirates would officially be 1-22 instead of 16-7. They would not play in the postseason.\nWhen Alex crashed in September, he tried to transition to an online offering of the homebound program. Even with his struggles, his transcript mostly showed A’s and B’s, though his fall semester’s course load was heavy even for him: AP Calculus, another AP science course, advanced history and Spanish. He fell behind in his transition online and wound up pushing Spanish to the spring semester and trying to take an incomplete in calc. That left him with two courses passed.\nTo stay eligible for high school athletics in North Carolina, a student must pass at least three classes the previous semester. The responsibility for determining eligibility in North Carolina falls on the principal, Simmons, and athletic director Barry West. Why they didn’t red-flag Alex and petition the North Carolina High School Athletic Association for a hardship waiver is unclear. The waiver could have granted Alex eligibility and salvaged Topsail’s season.\nSimmons told parents of Topsail baseball players that the school conducted a thorough investigation into Alex’s eligibility – a claim the parents find specious and dubious. They gathered en masse at the most recent school board meeting to bemoan the lack of transparency from the district and administration.\n“There was zero communication from school and district officials, which leaves everyone to wonder if a cover-up is happening,” said Shayne Frey, the father of one player. “Who did that investigation? Did the administrators who failed to do their job investigate themselves?”\nThe anger over the initial investigation and the decision to self-report the violation prompted the county school district to open its own investigation. West, the Topsail athletic director, did not return messages seeking comment. He resigned Wednesday night, telling the crowd at a banquet for the lacrosse team that the job no longer was fun, according to the Wilmington Star-News.\nSimmons, the principal, wrote in an email to Yahoo Sports: “I appreciate the opportunity, but I cannot speak with anyone or release any information until our superintendent, Dr. Steven Hill, completes his investigation.” Miranda Ferguson, a spokesman for the district, said in an email: “Pender County Schools is investigating this matter. In order to preserve the integrity of the ongoing investigation, the district will not discuss it. By law, the school system cannot discuss student or personnel matters but we are actively working on what we hope will be a beneficial resolution.” When asked whether the closure of the original investigation allowed those involved to address it, Ferguson did not respond.\n“They feel like the parents are going to stop and this is all going to go away,” said Julie Cota, whose son, Miles, was a junior on the baseball team this year. “We’re not, and it’s not.”\nCota and others at Topsail are tired of the turnover that plagues the school in spite of success that includes a state championship and three final fours in recent years. Rimer, in his second season, is the sixth baseball coach over the last eight years – and parents told Yahoo Sports that Simmons encouraged Rimer to quit multiple times this year. Rimer declined to address the allegation, preferring, he said, to focus on Alex because he was the real story of the season.\nAlex Postma and his mother, Julie. (Photo courtesy Bonnie Emmertz)\nAnd Rimer is right. Once Alex backflipped into everyone’s consciousness, the team tried, slowly, to draw him out. They called him Lightning – short for White Lightning, a name he first got, his father said, when he dunked as a freshman. While Rimer’s rules called for no headphones during practice, he made an exception for Lightning. Same thing went when Alex crashed during tryouts. Rimer had seen him come back from three years off; Alex made the team without a single tryout, another of the more than 100,000 kids from 413 schools to compete in high school athletics annually in North Carolina.\nOnly 10 to 15 a year lose their eligibility.\n“We want everyone to be eligible,” said Que Tucker, the NCHSAA commissioner. “We’re just selfish enough and egotistical enough to believe that everyone can glean so much by being part of athletic programs. We don’t look for ineligibles.”\nWhen ineligibles find them, Tucker endeavors to balance fairness, compassion and fidelity to the rules. She knows Alex’s story. She sees him as the embodiment of the association’s selfishness and egotism: High school sports really can change lives. At the same time, she understands that this would not be some ruling in a vacuum – that ruling Alex eligible would have constituted opening a Pandora’s box.\n“If you miss it in January and then you find out in May and you want to make it retroactive, we can’t do that,” Tucker said. “Because then we would start to govern in a discriminatory fashion. There has to be some measure of consistency by which we apply the rules. We believe our schools are very, very intent on making sure all students have every opportunity to participate. But every now and then, a school will miss a student.”\nTopsail missed Alex, the most obvious student of all, and it meant seven seniors – two going to play Division I baseball, two going to Division II, one going into the military, one going to college to become an engineer and Alex – would miss their final shot at a state title.\nHe would have been the easiest scapegoat imaginable, too, the kid who shouldn’t have been there in the first place. Nobody blamed Alex. Not his teammates. Not their parents. Not the coaches. No one. He reminded them why they love baseball: because if it could coax a kid who spent so much of his life in a dark place out into the light, imagine the regenerative properties it could offer for anyone.\n“The whole team has reached out to him, texted him, saying we all still love him,” Topsail catcher Colby Emmertz said. “We were glad to have him on the team. We’d do it again in a heartbeat.”\nThe aftermath\nThey try to pass along messages or words of encouragement or whatever might persuade Alex that none of this is his fault. They’re just kids, too, and that’s the worst part of it – that with the accusations, the speculation, the confusion, they feel like pawns in some sort of stupid adult game. They just want to go back to playing baseball and Fortnite and doing fun stuff like a charity Halloween game in costumes against the Topsail girls’ softball team that raised more than $3,000 for a local homeless shelter.\nOne Topsail baseball tradition is for the boys to wear their tuxedos for prom to the field and do a black-tie photo shoot. Alex’s teammates invited him. He still wasn’t ready.\n“Deep down,” Mike said, “he still feels responsible.”\nAnd that is such a crushing feeling, one that triggers the anxiety and depression and sends Alex crashing – one that if it really were the product of someone trying to further a petty feud would be beyond heinous.\n“I don’t think people understand what non-verbal means,” Mike said. “When he’s down like this, he doesn’t just internalize it. He won’t express himself in any form or fashion. It’s scary. It’s really scary.”\nThey’re trying to focus Alex on his immediate task at hand: graduating on time. He’s got a few weeks to climb out of the abyss, finish his schoolwork and ready himself for whatever is next. And what that is he’s not quite sure. He loves baseball, enough that he was evaluated by Fletcher Bates, a former minor league player who runs Rock Solid Baseball, a local travel team. Alex has the physical tools to join the travel circuit, Bates said, and maybe even play some college ball. He just needs polish – the sort he could have gotten over the last month.\nInstead, Topsail is at home, watching New Hanover High School advance to the 3A state semifinals. What really gets the players is New Hanover’s record: 25-0, as if the two times Topsail actually beat New Hanover this season never existed. It’s injury to insult.\nMuch as Alex took solace in baseball, in an odd way, his teammates and his community take it in him – in knowing that they could lift him up once, in trying to do it again, in hoping the glint they saw in his eyes when he was playing the game is not some fleeting feeling but a new normal.\n“If someone came to watch our game, nobody could tell he was different than any of us,” Emmertz said. “He was a baseball player. Just one of us.”\nMore from Yahoo Sports:\n• Trump: Maybe NFL protesters ‘shouldn’t be in the country’\n• Charles Robinson: What did the NFL hope to gain from Kaepernick poll?\n• Footage of Bucks player’s arrest released\n• Terez Paylor: NFL players react to league’s new anthem policy}}
{{Thousands of people in the German town of Augsburg have left Christmas presents and decorations behind after being forced to evacuate while authorities disarm a World War II bomb.\nThe bomb was uncovered last week during construction work in the city’s historic central district. Police say Christmas Day is the best time to defuse it because there is less traffic an it’s more likely people can stay with relatives.\nPolice vans with loudspeakers urged procrastinators to leave ahead of a 10 a.m. deadline.\nSome 32,000 homes with 54,000 residents are in the evacuation zone. Christmas morning services at the medieval cathedral with its famed boys’ choir were moved to another church.\nPolice aren’t making any promises about how long it will take. Schools and sports facilities have been opened as shelters.}}
{{DOHUK, Iraq – As violence consumed her home in Aleppo, Ghalia’s parents and brother were killed. Ghalia, now 33, fled to Al-Hasakeh, in north-eastern Syria, to live with her uncle’s family. Amid the chaos of war and displacement, she found an unexpected source of hope: She fell in love.\nMonths into her new life in Al-Hasakeh, she met an Iraqi man who swept her off her feet. They proceeded with a customary marriage, and she soon became pregnant.\nShe was able to save a little money from working at a bakery, funds she wanted to put towards her new family. But seven months into their marriage, her husband abandoned her and stole everything – including cherished keepsakes from her late mother.\n“I lost everything,” Ghalia said. “My husband not only took my physical belongings, but he also took away the little feeling of stability, safety and happiness I had.”\nBut that was not all. “I was pregnant when he left me,” Ghalia told UNFPA. “His actions took a toll on my health and I lost the baby. Everything went downhill.”\nWorld Refugee Day\nToday is World Refugee Day, a day to stand with refugees, recognize their hardships and commemorate their strength.\nToday, a record 68.5 million people have been forcibly displaced from their homes. That is 31 people newly displaced every minute, according to a new report from the UN Refugee Agency. Some 25.4 million of the displaced are refugees – people forced to cross international borders in search of safety.\nAs Ghalia’s story shows, displaced populations are incredibly vulnerable.\nUprooted from their lives and communities, they endure not only the threats of conflict or persecution, but also risk poverty, exploitation and abuse. As they seek safe haven, they may be turned away, detained or worse.\nBreakdown\nWhen Ghalia’s husband took everything, there was nothing she could do. “I couldn’t go to court to get my rights, given that I had no legal document supporting my story,” she said.\nTo make matters worse, she was uprooted yet again. Hostilities broke out in Al-Hasakeh, forcing her to flee with her uncle’s family to Domiz 2 camp in the Duhok Governorate of Iraq.\nAfter losing her husband, her pregnancy and her new home, Ghalia suffered a nervous breakdown. She attempted suicide more than once.\nThen Ghalia’s uncle’s wife learned about a women’s centre in the camp, a UNFPA-supported safe space for women and girls that offers counselling, psychosocial support, life-skills workshops, recreational activities, and informational sessions on issues including health and human rights.\nSocial workers at the women’s centre sought out Ghalia and listened to her story.\n“It took a while for me to trust the social workers,” Ghalia explained. “I only attended the first meeting because my uncle’s wife pushed me to.”\nBut over time, the counselling began to help.\n“A few sessions later, I saw empathy and support from the social workers. They started giving me advice on how to act and how to think when I feel like I am heading to a dark place in my mind. They told me that I wasn’t the only one who was feeling this way; I didn’t believe them at first.”\nBuilding new lives together\nGhalia started to explore the opportunities available at the women’s centre, including the information sessions and classes. There, she met other women who had survived their own ordeals.\n“I started developing a sense of belonging. I stopped feeling alone and started enjoying the company of the girls, especially when we opened up and I discovered that they, too, have stories similar to mine.”\nShe now works as a volunteer in centre, helping other women overcome their own traumas and hardships.\n“I get to tell my story, talk about my depression to those who are going through a rough patch, and share my lessons learned from this experience, with the hope that it can give them a sense of relief,” she said.\nThere are over 10,000 people living in the Domiz 2 camp, including nearly 8,700 Syrian refugees. To meet their needs, UNFPA is supporting the women’s centre, as well as a maternity unit, a reproductive health clinic and a youth centre.}}
{{Get ready people, one of the most highly anticipated albums of 2017 is without a doubt the new Gorillaz album, with the latest update surrounding the release coming from Pos of De La Soul. Pos recently sat down with The Guardian about collaborating on the still-untitled project. “We actually sat down with Damon two weeks ago and he played us some of the new Gorillaz album, and it sounds amazing,” said Pos. “He played us a track that he wants us to get off on his album so we got to get in the studio and put that down.”\nPos has gone on record with ShowbizSpy stating that Snoop Dogg will also make a guest appearance on what will be the fifth studio album from Gorillaz. Vic Mensa, composer Jean Michel-Jarre, songwriter Liam Bailey will also be contributing.\nPos also told ShowbizSpy “This album is some of the best work we have ever done, with a sound that will be both familiar and mind blowing with the added artists. I guarantee fans will be very happy.” That is one strong statement!\nThe new album will hit sometime in 2017, until then here is a couple music videos that help put Gorillaz on the map!}}
{{BETHLEHEM, Palestinian Territories: Preparations were under way in Bethlehem on Sunday for Christmas, with tensions still simmering in the city and the region following Washington's decision to recognise Jerusalem as Israel's capital.\nThe controversial Dec 6 announcement by President Donald Trump unleashed demonstrations and clashes, including in the Israeli-occupied West Bank city Bethlehem, where Christians will mark the birth of Jesus in a midnight mass.\nBethlehem is normally flooded by tourists at this time of year, but has at times appeared almost empty of visitors as nearby clashes between Palestinian protesters and the Israeli army keep people away.\nArchbishop Pierbattista Pizzaballa, apostolic administrator of the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem, said "dozens" of groups had pulled out of planned visits after being scared off by the announcement and subsequent violence.\n"Of course this created a tension around Jerusalem and this diverted attention from Christmas," the Catholic church's top official in Jerusalem said of Trump's announcement, but stressing that Christmas celebrations would go ahead as planned.\nPerhaps as few as 50,000 Palestinian Christians make up just around 2 per cent of the predominantly Muslim population of the West Bank and east Jerusalem.\nAdvertisement\nAdvertisement\nIsrael's tourism ministry has said that Christmas preparations have not been affected and that it expects a 20 per cent increase in the number of Christian pilgrims this year compared with 2016.\nThe ministry plans to operate a free shuttle service for the short distance between Jerusalem and Bethlehem for mass.\nEXTRA POLICE\nAn Israeli police spokesman said that extra units will be deployed in Jerusalem and at the crossings to Bethlehem to ease the travel and access for the "thousands of tourists and visitors".\nThe annual scouts parade in Bethlehem will march through Manger Square near the Church of the Nativity, built over the spot where tradition says Mary gave birth to Jesus and where celebrations will culminate with midnight mass.\nIsrael seized east Jerusalem in the 1967 Middle East war and later annexed it, in moves never recognised by the international community.\nPalestinians view east Jerusalem as the capital of their future state, and interpreted Trump's statement as rejecting their right to a capital in east Jerusalem, although the Americans deny this.\nIn a statement ahead of Christmas, Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas said Trump's announcement "encouraged the illegal disconnection between the holy cities of Bethlehem and Jerusalem, both separated for the first time in over 2,000 years of Christianity".\nAbbas called on "world Christians to listen to the true voices of the indigenous Christians from the Holy Land... that strongly rejected the US recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital".\n"They are the descendants of the first followers of Jesus Christ and an integral part of the Palestinian people," Abbas said, calling the local Christian community "an inherent part of our societies".\nIn neighbouring Egypt, Coptic Christians who celebrate Christmas on January 6 saw a church in Giza attacked by a mob following Muslim prayers on Friday, the latest in some 20 such incidents in 2017.\nHundreds entered the church, chanting slogans calling for its demolition, destroying furniture and attacking worshippers before security forces restored order.\nBut in Iraq, this year marks a positive turning point for the Christian community in the northern city of Mosul.\nChristmas mass will be celebrated there for the first time in years following the city's recapture from the Islamic State group in July.\nIS seized Iraq's second most populous city as part of a lightning offensive in 2014, driving out many Christians, and only small numbers have since returned.\nChristian dignitaries as well as Iraqi political and military leaders are expected to attend the annual service at St Paul's Church in the eastern sector of Mosul.}}
{{New The Young and the Restless casting information shows that Robert Adamson is bringing Noah back to Genoa City just in time for Christmas, but his reason for returning is also a sad one, considering Nikki lays fighting for her life, in need of a Christmas miracle.\nAccording to a She Knows Soaps report, Adamson’s first reappearance as Noah on Y&R will be on Christmas Eve, December 24. Adamson returned recently for a brief stint during Sharon (Sharon Case), and Nick’s (Joshua Morrow) failed wedding. Jack (Peter Bergman) flew Noah in to serve as a surprise best man for Nick. Unfortunately, Sharon revealed Nick and Phyllis’s (Gina Tognoni) one-night stand and dumped Nick at the altar. Noah jetted away shortly after the fiasco.\nNow, Inquisitr spoilers for The Young and the Restless reveal that Reed (Tristan Lake Leabu) runs Nikki (Melody Thomas Scott) down, and she spends the holiday in the hospital fighting for her life. With Victor (Eric Braeden) missing in action, the remaining members of the Newman family rally around their matriarch, and Noah returns to help support his grandma during what is supposed to be a joyous time of year. Perhaps Nikki will end up getting the Christmas miracle her family and friends hope and pray for.\nMeanwhile, Noah’s return might also end up helping reunite his sister Mariah (Camryn Grimes) with his mom Sharon. Inquisitr spoilers reveal that Mariah is none too willing to forgive and forget when it comes to Sharon and her roll in kidnapping Tessa (Cait Fairbanks). Sure, their fight over Tessa is bound to be awkward for him, considering that Mariah and Tessa kissed while Noah and Tessa dated, which left Noah brokenhearted. However, when he returned for the failed wedding, Noah and Mariah seemed okay, even though Mariah was still dating Tessa.\nOf course, some of what Tessa recently revealed — including the fact that she was conning Noah for his money — might give Mariah pause when her brother returns to town. Perhaps, along with Nikki’s Christmas miracle, Sharon and her children will also a miracle of their own, and manage to enjoy a close-knit, happy holiday together with Noah in Genoa City.\nOn Christmas Eve, fans will be treated to scenes with Adamson as Noah, and they’re sure to be bittersweet considering Nikki’s condition. The other good news for fans is that Y&R plans to air a brand new episode on Christmas Day too, so they’ll see even more of Sharon and Nick’s son during the holiday.}}
{{Helen Cahill\nTheresa May has called on people to celebrate Christian values this Christmas, and remember people around the world who have been denied religious freedom.\nThe Prime Minister has also praised the members of the armed forces, emergency services, and volunteers doing charity work over Christmas.\nRead more: Bad news, drivers: Pump prices have hit a four-year high this Christmas\nIn her Christmas message, May said: "As we celebrate the birth of Christ, let us celebrate all those selfless acts - and countless others - that epitomise the values we share: Christian values of love, service and compassion that are lived out every day in our country by people all faiths and none.\n"Let us take pride in our Christian heritage and the confidence it gives us to ensure that in Britain you can practice your faith free from question or fear."\nRead more: The six best sport documentaries you should watch this Christmas\nLabour leader Jeremy Corbyn called on families to "think about others" over the Christmas period, especially those who will be alone over the festive season, and people living in war-torn countries.\n“And abroad we think of those living in nations like Yemen, Syria and Libya in fear of bombs and bullets, of injury and death," he said.\n“None of this is inevitable. We pride ourselves on being a compassionate nation.\n“My Christmas wish is that we all do more to help bring about the kind of society and world we want to live in."}}
{{Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nStandards have dropped at a school where pupils' test results were among the lowest 20 per cent of the country.\nOfsted inspectors said Alexandra Park Junior School ‘requires improvement’ because children don’t make good progress due to ‘inconsistent teaching’.\nAt the last inspection in 2013 the school was deemed good - but inspectors have now stated leaders and governors haven’t kept up the quality of teaching since the last visit.\nFollowing the inspection last month the report found teachers’ expectations were not high enough and pupils weren’t fully equipped for life at secondary school.\nInspectors stated: “Leadership and management over time have not been strong enough to prevent a decline in the quality of education at Alexandra Park Junior School.\n“Inconsistent teaching and assessment have impacted on pupils’ outcomes. Consequently, many pupils have not made the progress they should, and too few have been fully prepared for secondary school.”\nIt added: “Pupils do not make consistently good progress in school and standards have dropped, so that in 2017, national test results showed that progress was in the bottom 20 per cent of schools nationally.”\nA lot of staff changes have been recently been made at the junior school. A new leadership team started in September.\nInspectors did praise the school stating ‘leaders and governors now have a clear focus’.\nParents were also criticised for taking children out of school for extended periods.\n(Image: Manchester Evening News)\nIt stated: “Too many pupils take extended time away from school. This fragments their education and makes it very hard for them to keep up with their reading, writing and mathematics.”\nMr Peter Widall, Chair of Governors, said: “Although we’re disappointed with the outcomes of the inspection, it does identify the many things the school is doing well. We are already working very hard to get the school to a ‘good’ judgement.”\n“The Ofsted report acknowledges that our new leadership team is starting to make improvements in the quality of teaching - for example, in maths, where they say we have “accelerated the rates of progress of most pupils currently in the school.’\n“We want to reassure parents and the local community that improvement is our top priority and we value their support.”\nTheir test results in 2007 were among the lowest 20 per cent nationally.}}
{{Bus 1, start 6:50 a.m.: Guernseytown at Hinman, at Skilton, at Farview, at 2nd Farview, Killorin at Wheeler Farm, Wheeler Farm at Farm Circle, Guernseytown at 773, at Crestview, at 559, at Eastwood Hall, at Whispering Hill, at 145, to WHS.\nBus 3, start 6:45 a.m.: Middlebury at Cornwall, at 896, at Lovely, Lake Winnemaug at Caruso, at Northgate, at Hedgerow, at Sperry, at West Meadow, at Farmdale, Barnes at 164, Bunker Hill at 1480, at 1137, at 1059, at 973, at 895, to WHS.\nBus 4, start 7:10 a.m.: Bunker Hill Rd. at Sprucewood, at Frances Ann, at 1st Georgetown, at 2nd Georgetown, Bamford at Delhurst, at Spring Hill, at 71, at Pullen, Davis at Park, at Maple, at Yale, to WHS.\nBus 6, start 7:15 a.m.: Main St. at Edgewood, at Tony’s Seafood, Buckingham St. at St. Mary’s Church parking lot, at Hungerford, at Falls Terrace, at Ball Farm, at Camp, at Parkman, to WHS.\nBus 7, start 6:45 a.m.: Rte. 6 (Woodbury Rd.) at 345, at Penny Lane, Circuit at Grandview, Rte. 6 at Neill, at 550, at Wolf Hill, Platt at Stoneleigh, at 2nd Winding Brook, at Westgate, Guernseytown at Crestview, to WHS.\nBus 8, start 7:05 a.m.: Colonial at Lancaster, at Clermont, at 295, at Park Ln., at Morro, at stop sign, Candee Hill at 89, at 35, to WHS.\nBus 10, start 7:10 a.m.: Falls Ave. at Skipper, at Falls Ter., at Viola, Sunnyside at Edgewood, at Shelter Hill, to WHS.\nBus 11, start 7:15 a.m.: Rte. 6 (Cutler St.) at Cutler Knoll, at Steele Brook, at 489, at 395 (condos), at 319, Buckingham St. at White, at 1374, at Pheasant Ridge, at 1260, at Vista, at 1020, at Carter, at Augusta, at Eddy, to WHS.\nBus 12, start 7:05 a.m.: Main St. at Atwood Court, Woodruff at Hillcrest, Scott at Prospect, at Cherry, Cherry at 148, at Belden, at 245, at 303, at 530, at 550, to WHS.\nBus 13, start 7 a.m.: Main St. at 517, at 617, at Heminway Park, Woolson at Merriam, Northfield at Ellen Kay, at 593, at Black Rock, at Bryant, Bassett at 1st Deer Run, at 2nd Deer Run, at Apple Hill, at 961, at 899, at 514, at 465, Honey Hill at 143, at 217, at Honey Hill, Smith Pond Rd. at 203, at 127, at Butternut, Fern Hill at Old Farms, at 40, at 15, to WHS.\nBus 15, start 6:55 a.m.: Pond View at Pond View, Kimberly at Pond View, at Loop, at Lovely, Straits Turnpike at 231, Oak at 301, at 111, Straits Turnpike at 279, at 305, at 339, at 360, at 405, Davis, at 2nd Evelyn, at Mango, at Saugus, to WHS.\nBus 16, start 7:10 a.m.: Sylvan Lake Rd. at Eaton, at Eustis, at Parkman, Frost Bridge at The Pond, Falls Ave. at Howland, at Sunny, to WHS.\nBus 21, start 6:55 a.m.: Nova Scotia Hill Rd. at Beach, Upper Nova Scotia Hill at Jericho, Porter at 32, at Northwest, Echo Lake Rd. at Greenwood, at Burton at Adams, Ice House Rd. at Saco, to WHS.\nBus 24, start 7:05 a.m.: Litchfield Rd. (Rte. 63) at Baldwin, at Roberts, at Chestnut Grove, at Clearview, Judson at Claxton, Wilder at Wilder Court, Litchfield Rd. at 198, at Linkfield, at 810, at Trolane, at Ledgewood, at Killorin, at 1174, Breezy Knoll at Bayview, Bella Vista at Serenity, Litchfield Rd. at 1638, at 1692, at Hidden Pond, at 1941, at 2245, at 2213, Linkfield at Joshua Town, at 308, at 279, Litchfield Rd. at 429, at West, North at Pine, to WHS.\nBus 25, start 7 a.m.: Sunnyside at Shaw Farm, at 2nd Hilltop, at Pineridge, at Borrowy, at Franklin, at Lilac, at Edgewood, at Shelter Hill, Hillside at Ball Farm, to WHS.\nBus 26, start 7 a.m.: Bunker Hill Rd. at Old Colony, at Mystic, at 1119, at Belle Meadow, Hamilton Ave. at Carola, at Farmdale, at Artillery, at 525, at Buckwheat, to WHS.\nVan 34, start 7 a.m.: Curtiss Lane at 181, Judd Farm Rd. at 138, at 320, Guernseytown Rd. at 1745, at 1414, Skilton at Hinman, to WHS.}}
{{If you're on the hunt for a midweek pick-me-up look no further than the festival of music and light at Moscow's VDNKh. The city's famous exhibition center is hosting an innovative project over the coming two days which will allow audiences to experience music in a way they never have before.\nThe open air performance at the architecturally domineering Zeleny Teatr (Green Theater) will combine classical music with 3D mapping technology to create a visual representation of aural masterpieces from the 20th century to the present day.\nMusic will be performed by the Russian National Orchestra, arguably Russia's best ensemble — look out for Vladislav Lavrik and Timur Zangiev behind the podium. This is an event that music aficionados will not want to miss.\nTickets cost from 1000 rubles and can be booked at vdnh.ru +7 (495) 544-34-00 Zelyony Teatr, VDNKh. Metro VDNKh. August 24-25.}}
{{An upcoming Hartlepool festival will be serving up more than just music.\nWhile a host of North East bands take to the stage at We Are Family, festival goers will be able to sample food and beers from across the region.\nA food festival is set to run alongside the event at Jacksons Landing, on the Marina, on Saturday, September 10.\nWylam Brewery has teamed up with the festival’s own sponsor, Camerons Brewery, to offer bars selling a wide selection of ales.\nMusic fans will also be able to sample street food from the likes of Longhorns Barbecue Smoke House, The Fat Hippo, Fornartesas’ wood fired pizza, Gladys’ vintage tea room and Kitch N Crepes.\nMax Bianco, a member of Hartlepool band The Jar Family, who are staging the festival, said: “We’re very excited to be bringing back We Are Family to Hartlepool again this year.\n“The response to last year’s event was incredible – the whole area got behind us and turned out in their thousands to celebrate bands from the North East. We can’t thank the locals enough for the support they have shown us and we’ve got another amazing line up for them this year.”\nThe event is set to include performances from The Jar Family, who will be launching their new self-produced EP Daydreamin’, as well as North East bands Little Comets, Hyde & Beast, Kingsley Chapman & The Murder, Cattle & Cane and more.\nThe Jar Family’s Lee Dali said: “It’s great to be running for a second year. I think with the first year being such a success and that many people enjoying it, and we just had to do it again.\n“It’s all local North East bands, the same as last year. We’ve got no big names apart from the big local bands from Newcastle to Sunderland, like Cattle & Cane and Little Comets and the Mouses.”\nWith Jacksons Landing set to be demolished, the band is planning to make the festival bigger and better next year.\nLee added: “It’ll be a relocation. I think what we’ll look for, if it is another success this year and there’s people wanting it next year, I think we’ll look for somewhere where you can camp, where we can have it like a proper festival.”\nWe’ve got five pairs of tickets to give away for the festival, which includes a voucher for a meal and drink from a vendor of your choice.\nTo be in with a chance of winning, just tell us which Hartlepool band organises the We Are Family festival.\nSend your answer, along with your name and contact number, to vicki.newman@jpress.co.uk\nTickets for the festival cost £10. To book, go to www.wearefamilyfestival.com}}
{{Andrew FitzGerald made a plea to Ottawa on World Refugee Day: please clear the backlog of the private sponsorship program by June 30, 2018.It’s a demand echoed across Canada by church and community groups, some having been waiting for as many as five years to resettle their matched refugees to Canada for a safe, stable life.“There is a backlog of 45,000 people sitting with the immigration department. Some are partially processed,” said FitzGerald of Canada4Refugees, a grassroots advocacy group for the private sponsorship community.“The government has said it’s taking in 16,000 privately sponsored refugees a year and the goal was to clear the backlog by the end of 2019. But new applications keep coming. At the rate things are going, we are concerned it won’t happen.”A petition launched by Canada4Refugees on Tuesday has already got the endorsement of the Office for Refugees, Archdiocese of Toronto, the Canadian Association of Jews and Muslims, as well as other refugee advocacy groups. The United Nations has designated June 20 as World Refugee Day.Article Continued BelowBernie Derible, spokesperson for Immigration Minister Ahmed Hussen, said the government inherited two-thirds of the backlog from its Conservative predecessor, which imposed a much lower annual quota for privately sponsored refugees from around the world. Officials had to prioritize resources to handle the massive public interest in resettling Syrian refugees to Canada over the last two years, said Derible, but the government is committed to bringing the private sponsorship program operation back on track.“We need a disciplined approach to get the backlog done,” Derible told the Star on Tuesday, adding that ongoing applications inflow had already been factored in with the government’s 2019 timeline.}}
{{Battle of the bulbs: Minnetrista couple featured on ‘Great Christmas Light Fight’\nRyan and Trent Kasper-Cook competed on ABC’s “The Great Christmas Light Fight” on Dec. 12. The couple did not win, but hopes to continue their light display for years to come. (Submitted photos)\nIt only took one year for Ryan Kasper-Cook and his husband Trent’s holiday light display, Trista Lights, to garner national attention. The Minnetrista couple moved to a new home last year and after watching ABC’s ‘The Great Christmas Light Fight’, Ryan Kasper-Cook said he wanted to try and create a light display like the ones featured on the show. He didn’t realize his display would be on it a year later.\n“It was amazing,” he said. “It was a huge honor to be recognized nationally like that.”\nWhile he didn’t win, Kasper-Cook said he and his husband had fun working with the show and hope to continue their light display for the forseeable future.\n“We’ve met a lot of great friends in the area that are doing the same thing,” he said. “We’d love to keep doing it for our neighborhood.”\nContinue reading this Sun Patriot story.}}
{{Congressman Marsha Blackburn\n7th District of Tennessee\nWashington, D.C. Fellow Americans-\nI want to extend a very Merry Christmas to you and your families this holiday season. May we all take time to remember true meaning of Christmas, the gift of our Savior Jesus Christ. I hope that you are able to enjoy time with your loved ones and to make many special memories together. Let’s look forward to all that 2017 will offer us.\nMany of you told me how much you enjoyed the facts from our Thanksgiving report, so I hope that you will enjoy sharing these Christmas facts from the History Channel with your friends and family.\nChristmas Facts\nChristians celebrate Christmas Day as the anniversary of the birth of Jesus of Nazareth, a spiritual leader whose teachings form the basis of their religion.\nDecember 25th–Christmas Day–was declared a federal holiday in the United States on June 26th, 1870.\nEach year, 30-35 million real Christmas trees are sold in the United States alone. There are 21,000 Christmas tree growers in the United States, and trees usually grow for about 15 years before they are sold.\nThe first eggnog made in the United States was consumed in Captain John Smith’s 1607 Jamestown settlement.\nThe Salvation Army has been sending Santa Claus-clad donation collectors into the streets since the 1890s.\nRudolph, “the most famous reindeer of all,” was the product of Robert L. May’s imagination in 1939. The copywriter wrote a poem about the reindeer to help lure customers into the Montgomery Ward department store.\nConstruction workers started the Rockefeller Center Christmas tree tradition in 1931.\nWe have enjoyed this week in the district. On Monday, I jumped back into DC and pre-taped a New Years Day segment for CNN’s State of the Union show, focusing on the legislative agenda and work of Congress in 2017. I hope you will tune in. On Tuesday, I started the day with a roundtable with members of the NFIB Business Council. Tuesday and Wednesday also brought time to meet with many in in the healthcare industry and work with them on how we address the repeal of Obamacare and in its place implement patient centered healthcare.\nMy hope is that you and your family will enjoy this Christmas week. At our house, we find time to make peppermint brownies, make our favorite Christmas eve meal and bake a few cookies to leave for ole Saint Nick.\nEnjoy this Christmas week.\n-Marsha\nSections\nTopics}}
{{Cal Poly turned away more than 10,000 first-time freshman applicants who had high school grade-point averages of 4.0 or higher as the university sifted through a record number of applicants, newly released data shows.\nOverall, less than a third of high school applicants were accepted for fall 2018 admission this year, according to data provided by the university.\nOf the nearly 55,000 first-time freshmen who applied, 16,466 were accepted as the university looks to fill 4,486 available spaces, according to Jim Maraviglia, Cal Poly's associate vice provost for marketing and enrollment development.\nSchool officials say the largest undergraduate applicant pool in Cal Poly history — consisting of more than 65,500 first-time freshman and transfer students — played a role in the high number of students who were turned away.\nSIGN UP\nHelp us deliver journalism that makes a difference in our community. Our journalism takes a lot of time, effort, and hard work to produce. If you read and enjoy our journalism, please consider subscribing today. SUBSCRIBE TODAY\nThat doesn't mean the students were unqualified.\nMaraviglia said the university was forced to turn away 10,646 first-time freshmen with high school grade-point averages of 4.0 or higher.\nThe average GPA of those selected was an all-time high of 4.13, he said. The average SAT score was 1407, and the average ACT score was 30.\n"It was the highest quality pool ever," Maraviglia said. "The most difficult thing about it is having to turn away so many outstanding students."\nLast fall, about 1,000 more students than expected accepted Cal Poly's offer of admission, leaving the school in a pinch to provide enough housing and offer more classes.\nThe university saw some regression in that area this spring.\n"At this time, we can confirm that the university saw a reduced number of admitted first-time freshman students accepting our offer for fall 2018, compared to our projections," university spokesman Matt Lazier said. "However, the number of transfer students who accepted admission matched our projections."\nMaravigilia said official enrollment data will not be available until the fall census is released in October.\nCal Poly received 10,914 upper-division transfer applications for 893 available spaces. The average GPA among transfer students selected was 3.40, according to Maraviglia.\nWhere they're coming from\nOf the 54,672 first-time freshman applications, nearly 18 percent (9,697) came from Los Angeles County, the data shows.\nSanta Clara County (9.8 percent), Orange County (8.5) and San Diego County (8.3) also were among the top feeder counties in California, each producing more than 4,500 first-time freshman applicants.\nLocally, 595 San Luis Obispo County high school students applied this year, and 284 were selected — an acceptance rate of 48 percent. That selection rate was the highest among all counties in California with 15 or more applicants, the data shows.\nYet, it was the lowest percentage of SLO County high school students selected since at least 2007, according to historical data provided by the university. In 2009, more than 64 percent of SLO County high school students were selected, and that number had been higher than 50 percent every year until the class of 2018.\nFor accepted SLO County high school students, the average high school GPA was 4.08, the average SAT score was 1300, and the average ACT score was 28, according to the data.\nMaraviglia said the California State University system does not require schools to serve their region as a priority, but it is one of the variables Cal Poly incorporates into its admissions process.\n"That's just something that CSU campuses do, and we do the same thing," Maraviglia said. "We give additional consideration to domiciled local students, whether they're coming in as freshmen or transfer."\nThe most out-of-state applications came from Washington, where 1,364 applied and 814 were selected — an acceptance rate of 59.7 percent. Colorado (319 students selected), Oregon (211) and Texas (166) also had acceptance rates higher than 50 percent.\nGender and race\nCal Poly received more first-time freshman applications from male students (28,423) than female students (26,249), preliminary numbers show.\nThe university selected 25.6 percent of male applicants and 35 percent of female applicants, marking at least the 11th straight year more female students were accepted than male students. Cal Poly's overall student body in fall 2017 was 52.1 percent male and 47.9 percent female, according to the school's institutional research page.\nAdditionally, more than 58 percent of the incoming freshman class identified as white, according to the preliminary data. An earlier analysis of the school's ethnic breakdowns by The Tribune showed Cal Poly is 54.8 percent white and the least racially diverse public university in California.\nCal Poly students walk through the university union on campus in San Luis Obispo, California. Joe Johnston jjohnston@thetribunenews.com\nStudents identifying as Hispanic/Latino made up 14.9 percent of the applicants, while 13.9 percent identified as Asian American and 7.8 percent identified as multi-racial.\nAfrican American (0.4 percent), Native American (0.3) and Hawaiian/Pacific Islander (0.3) students made up 1 percent of the group, the data shows.\nIf the preliminary data holds up, Cal Poly will enroll 19 first-time freshman African American students, its fewest since 2010. Last fall, 41 first-time freshman African American students enrolled at Cal Poly.\nThis year's admissions process came during a turbulent time on campus, where a string of racially-charged incidents caused public outrage and waves of protests during the university's annual Open House weekend.\nIn a meeting with The Tribune in April, Cal Poly President Jeffrey Armstrong said there was "no question" that some potential students had seen the racist acts and decided not to accept Cal Poly's offer of admission.\nWhat they're studying\nEngineering continues to be Cal Poly's biggest draw among prospective students.\nMore than 19,000 first-time freshmen sought enrollment in the College of Engineering — by far the most of any college — and 1,139 indicated their intent to enroll in the fall.\nThe College of Science and Mathematics received 11,929 applications, and the College of Liberal Arts garnered 9,266 applications, the data shows.\nThe Orfalea College of Business (7,104), the College of Agriculture, Food and Environmental Sciences (4,846) and College of Architecture and Environmental Design (2,453) also received thousands of applications from prospective students.}}
{{By Sydney Barson| At least 10 families from five provinces received a consortium of Christmas goodies expected to last for the next four or five months, courtesy of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC-T) Youth Assembly’s Christmas Goodies Initiative.\nSpeaking at the goodies distribution ceremony in Harare on Christmas eve Vimbai Veeshall Mavherudze, Coordinator of the Christmas Goodies Initiative said in identifying beneficiaries of this initiative they maintained constant consultations with the provincial leadership in identifying beneficiary families.\n“We have five categories of families that are eligible firstly a family left (especially children) behind by a bread winner directly because of political violence. In this instance our Roll of honour is used to cross check, if absent in roll of honour respective leadership will be consulted. Preference is given to those in real need”\n“Secondly a child headed family that is struggling and local leadership feels they should be helped. Thirdly, a disabled bread winner’s family who became disabled directly by political violence.”\n“The family of a late former member or partner of Christmas Goodies Initiative qualifies by virtue of effort rendered and as a gesture of honour bestowing and lastly\nfamilies of jailed political activists qualify to benefit as their families would have become disadvantaged by the political incarceration of their bread winners.” Mavherudze said.\nThe Christmas Goodies Initiative is an annual expression of love to the families of MDC-T members who have fallen victim of repression in its various forms of manifestation under the ZANU-PF government.\nThe Initiative is made up of sixteen (16) partners who are members of the MDC-T. It is these partners who fund the initiative through monthly contributions of groceries and cash ranging between $20 – $100 monthly from August to November.\nMidlands Senator and MDC T vice chairman Morgan Komichi said the initiative is an expression of love by the youths which is exemplified by MDC- T leader Morgan Tsvangirai.\nKomichi also donated a trolley full of groceries to the goodies pool.\nSaid Komichi, “Our leader Morgan Tsvangirai is a man of love and this is what you have shown today learning from the father, it only tells us the kind of future we have in Zimbabwe when MDC-T gets the reins of this country.”\nFather of incarcerated activist Yvonne Musarurwa was among those who received this year’s Christmas cheer.\nFounded in 2012 after realising the need to help and put a smile on the faces of families of fellow political victims the initiative is growing despite Zimbabwe’s depressed economy.\nThe treats consisted of cash and other stuffs inclusive of Flour, Rice, Sugar Cooking Oil, Relish, Stationery, Tinned food, Mazoe, Salt, Teabags, Washing and Bath Soap, Coffee Creamer, Teabags, fresh veggies, Uniforms, Balloons, Sweets, Washing Powder, Sanitary Wear and Toiletries among other rations.}}
{{AUSTIN -- Mayor Steve Adler and Austin City Council members have been invited to travel to the Texas-Mexico border Thursday in light of the "zero tolerance" separation policy.\nAccording to a message posted on the council's message board, the United States Conference of Mayors has invited Adler and the City Council to join their trip to the migrant shelter in Tornillo, Texas.\nUSCM said the invitation comes after recognizing the leadership the City Council has shown when it comes to immigration issues.\nRELATED:\nImmigrant families separated at Texas border: What we know\nGov. Abbott on separating immigrant families: 'This disgraceful condition must end'\nTrump says he'll sign executive order to end family separation at border\nVERIFY: Families separated at the border in Obama vs. Trump administrations\nFact check: Viral photo of caged child was actually staged as Texas border issues heat up\nIn the message, Adler referred to the "zero tolerance" policy as a "stark contrast to the ideals of our nation" and called it "immoral" and "un-American."\n"It is hurting families without justification, and it needs to change. This a defining moment for our country," said Adler.\nCouncil members Delia Garza, Sabino “Pio” Renteria, Greg Casar and Leslie Pool have confirmed that they will make the trip, according to our partners at the Austin American-Statesman. Kathie Tovo also confirmed she would be joining. However, Adler did not say if he is going to travel with them.\nKVUE's Pattrik Perez will be reporting from El Paso County where the council members are headed.\nOn our way to El Paso County, where Austin Mayor Steve Adler and several council members will be visiting a temporary shelter for unaccompanied minors in Tornillo. They’re expected to visit the shelter tomorrow morning. @KVUE pic.twitter.com/UZBNJY4Hgz — Pattrik Perez KVUE (@PattrikPerez) June 20, 2018\nCasar started his drive to Tornillo Wednesday.\nI'm driving to El Paso, join me on Facebook Live at 12pm CST. I'll give you an update on the road about why I'm driving to Tornillo and what I'll be asking federal officials at the tent city. #KeepFamiliesTogether #atxcouncil pic.twitter.com/XhrneZ1DIg — Gregorio Casar (@GregCasar) June 20, 2018\nCouncil member Ora Houston said in a statement Wednesday that, although she does not condone the "zero tolerance" policy, she will not visit Tornillo due to prior commitments.\n"As a parent and a child protective service worker in my past life, I do not condone or support any policies or conditions that have the potential of causing physical and/or emotional harm to humans regardless of age. Nor do I condone the practice of separating children from their family group to penalize adults seeking asylum," Houston said in the statement. "That being said, I will not be traveling with the Council to the Federal detention facility in Tornillo, Texas because of commitments with community members that were months in the making. In my experience in the child welfare system, the young people are experiencing fear, trauma and micro aggressions because of the travel, the separations and the unknowns. I am sure that my colleagues will provide a fair and accurate reporting of the conditions on the ground."\n© 2018 KVUE}}
{{Share this article with Google Plus\nThe Spanish coach went to hospital before being given the all clear (Pictures: Getty)\nValencia manager Marcelino had a Christmas weekend to forget when he collided with a wild boar while driving home on Saturday evening.\nThe 52-year-old’s day had already gotten off to a terrible start when his high-flying side lost 1-0 at home to Villarreal, though things got even worse on his journey home.\nThe collision required Marcelino to take a visit to the A&E, though fortunately he was quickly given the all clear.\nA statement on the club’s official website read: ‘Marcelino Garcia Toral was involved in a car accident early this morning, while travelling home to Asturias to spend the holidays with his family.\nMarcelino watched from the dugout as his side lost 1-0 before the accident took place (Getty)\n‘It took place on a stretch of motorway between Logrono and Bilbao, when a wild boar crossed the road and collided with his car.\n‘He was taken to hospital, but has already been given the all clear.’\nValencia’s defeat saw them sacrifice second spot to Atletico Madrid, while they are now 11 points adrift of leaders Barcelona after the Catalan club’s thumping win over Real Madrid in the Clasico.}}
{{Coit Tower and Transamerica Pyramid, seen in October from Pier 39 at San Francisco’s Fisherman’s Wharf. (Daniel Slim/AFP/Getty Images)\nThe FBI says it thwarted a possible terrorist attack at San Francisco’s Pier 39 after arresting a man who told undercover agents he wanted to carry out an Islamic State-inspired suicide bombing at the popular tourist destination on Christmas Day.\nEveritt Aaron Jameson, 26, was charged Friday with attempting to provide material support to a designated foreign terrorist organization. Over nearly two months, Jameson had been corresponding with FBI agents posing as Islamic State affiliates, during which he repeatedly “espoused radical jihadi beliefs” and expressed a desire to conduct a violent attack on San Francisco’s Pier 39, according to an FBI complaint filed Friday in U.S. District Court.\nJameson, a tow-truck driver from Modesto, about 100 miles east of San Francisco, said he wanted to target Pier 39 because he was familiar with the location and knew it was heavily crowded, the FBI affidavit stated. The pier, known for its sunning sea lions, is among the city’s most popular tourist draws, packed with museums, shops and restaurants.\nJameson told an undercover agent that Christmas was the “perfect day to commit the attack” and that he “did not need an escape plan because he was ready to die,” the affidavit stated.\nAccording to court documents, the FBI had been investigating Jameson starting in September, when a source tipped the agency off to one of Jameson’s Facebook accounts that “was ‘liking’ and ‘loving’ posts that were pro-ISIS and pro terrorism.” One such post Jameson “loved” was an ISIS propaganda poster that showed Santa Claus standing in New York with a box of dynamite, with the caption: “We meet at Christmas in New York . . . soon.”\n[ Both San Bernardino attackers pledged allegiance to the Islamic State, officials say ]\nJameson said he had converted to Islam two years ago at the Islamic Center of Merced — a claim later corroborated by his father — and expressed an eagerness to “join the cause against darul kuffar,” using a derogatory Islamic term for unbelievers in Western nations, according to the affidavit. He also told undercover agents he supported ISIS-inspired terrorist attacks, such as the 2015 mass shooting in San Bernardino and the October attack in New York, in which a truck driver plowed into a bike path, killing eight people.\n“Jameson stated that we need something along the lines of New York or San Bernardino,” the affidavit stated. When asked to clarify what he meant, “Jameson replied that he wanted to use a combination of the two (which I believe is a reference to inflicting casualties through the use of a vehicle and firearms).”\nIn his correspondence with undercover agents, Jameson also referenced his prior military experience. Jameson completed Marine Corps basic training in 2009, earning a sharpshooter rifle qualification, but was discharged for failing to disclose his history of asthma, the affidavit stated. Jameson would later tell an undercover agent he was “trained in combat and things of war” and knew how to use both the M-16 and AK-47 rifles, the affidavit stated. He also asked for help obtaining assault weapons and materials to make a rudimentary bomb.\nThe FBI’s undercover investigation came close to being blown when an FBI employee mistakenly called Jameson’s cellphone on Monday from a D.C. area code, the affidavit stated.\n“After Jameson answered in apparent Arabic language, the FBI employee immediately terminated the call,” the affidavit stated. “Shortly afterwards, Jameson called the 202 telephone number, which resolves to a voice mail identifying the name (but not employing agency) of user of the 202 telephone.”\nIt’s unclear if Jameson realized anything after the telephone call. Later Monday, Jameson once again communicated with an undercover agent and confirmed he could rent a storage unit for their planned attack, according to court documents. On Monday night, however, Jameson told the undercover agent he had reconsidered and “don’t think I can do this after all,” the affidavit stated.\n“In Sha Allah one day I can,” Jameson told the undercover agent, according to the affidavit. “But I can’t.”\n[ Five Argentines among 8 dead in New York City terror attack ]\nOn Wednesday, investigators searched Jameson’s home in Modesto and found a handwritten letter in which he pledged his devotion to the “Lions of Islam” and condemned President Trump’s recent recognition of Jerusalem as Israel’s capital, the affidavit stated. Agents also discovered an envelope containing “the Last Will and Testament of Everitt Aaron,” along with two rifles, a handgun, ammunition and fireworks.\n“At periodic times during [the Wednesday raid on his home] Jameson stated his support of ISIS and terrorism and discussed aspects of the plan to carry out an attack, noting that he would be happy if an attack was carried out,” the affidavit stated.\nAt a federal court hearing on Friday, Jameson denied the allegations. He is being held for a Dec. 28 detention hearing and faces up to 20 years in prison if convicted, the Associated Press reported.\nCalls made by The Washington Post to the Islamic Center of Merced and to a public defender listed for Jameson were not immediately returned Saturday morning.\nAfter Jameson’s arrest, his father, Gordon Jameson, told the Merced Sun-Star he was shocked and didn’t believe the FBI’s allegations. He added his son had been depressed after losing custody of his two young children and had immersed himself in his new religion, to the point where family members sometimes jokingly nicknamed Everitt Jameson “ISIS.”\n“He just ain’t no terrorist, no way,” Gordon Jameson told the newspaper, of his son. “He would never hurt people. Not ever. It’s just unbelievable. That’s not who he is.”\nSan Francisco’s acting mayor, London Breed, said there were no other known threats and that there would be increased police presence throughout the city.\n“San Francisco is a city that proudly champions democracy, freedom and liberty. Sadly, that makes our home a target,” Breed said in a statement. “We will not allow the thwarted attempts of one dangerous individual to disrupt our way of life. We will remain vigilant and continue to protect our city from any threat.”\nRead more:\n‘Aggressive’ sea-lion attacks force officials to ban swimming at popular San Francisco cove\nHow terrorism in the West compares to terrorism everywhere else\nWealthy San Francisco residents to get private street back, despite skipping taxes for decades}}
{{I suppose I've always been one to hang on to the coattails of magic as long as it lets me, as long as it doesn't grow too wild and reckless, sending me spinning and whipping off its haunches.\nI think that's what keeps me telling and retelling the best parts then, the ones from a childhood spent believing that maybe my horse could understand the words I spoke, my "secret spot" 12 feet off the road was actually secret and Santa Clause would exist as long as I found a way to never grow up.\nI never wanted to grow up.\nOf all of the memories I've collected as a kid in these hills, I remember that most clearly.\nI was sensitive enough to the trials of adulthood to know that children had it best. I knew because I was listening from the other side of my closed bedroom door — hushed conversations in the kitchen while we were supposed to be sleeping, the stories of lost love coming from dad's record player, the hugs from strangers at my grandparents' funerals.\nI knew what time did to people, and I wondered how I might make it miss me.\nMy grandpa died when I was six years old. His death brought our family back to the ranch for good, and it gave me another five years or so living down the road from my grandmother.\nActually, it gave us all that time with her, but I don't own my family's memories. I only have mine.\nAnd I remember one summer evening lying in the patch of sun that lit up the carpet through the open window in my grandmother's living room.\nThe TV was on, but it wasn't as interesting to me as watching the way the dust caught the stream of light, turning it from invisible to visible.\nMy grandma had fallen asleep in her easy chair with a newspaper on her lap, her head tilted back, sort of snoring. She had a habit of holding a toothpick in the corner of her mouth, and I noticed as she took those deep, noisy breaths that her toothpick was still there, in danger, I was certain, of being sucked down her throat as she slept, unaware.\nThat's the kind of kid I was, so comfortable and in love with the familiarity of my good and safe life, and a little too aware of its volatility, a little worried I was too lucky.\nI sat up, eyes fixated on that toothpick, watching my grandmother's lips purse and pop with each breath in and out, suddenly becoming distinctly aware of time.\nI didn't want to live in a world without her.\nAnd I didn't want to live in a world where time made me think it too cold for sledding or allowed me to walk by a swimming pool or a lake or the perfect puddle and not want to, (have to) jump in.\nAnd so Christmas has come again, and the new year is right behind, bringing with it the recognition of time passed, new promises and reminders to miss the people who've left us here to admire the twinkling lights without them.\nNow that I've succumbed to adulthood, I wish I could remember what it was like to truly believe in such an impossible thing like Santa Clause. My six-year-old self would be so disappointed in me.\nBut if I could, I would tell her a secret I've learned in the growing up we were so afraid of: I would say she was doing the right thing in holding on tight to her gratitude. Then I would tell her not to worry so much about time, because time gives us memories, memories we get to go back to whenever we want, but also, memories just waiting to be made.\nAnd that, child, is the most magic you'll find in this life.\nHold on tight to its tails.\nJessie Veeder is a musician and writer living with her husband and daughter on a ranch near Watford City, N.D. She blogs at https://veederranch.com. Readers can reach her at jessieveeder@gmail.com.}}
{{This year, Rosemary Clarke Middle School is in the National Youth Sports League in the 14 and under division (14U).\nThe team had a bad day on Saturday against visiting Faith Lutheran as they lost 35-0, according to coach Jimmy Atencio, the head football coach.\n“We had problems passing and rushing on offense against Faith Lutheran,” Atencio said.\nAtencio said his team just needs to start playing hard in the first quarter.\n“We decided to play defense late in the game and this happened to us in the Moapa game too,” he said. “We had 200 yards passing in that game, but we started to play offense late in the game.”\nThe coach said his team has four games left and he wants them to come out and play hard the entire four quarters.\nHe said the following players in the last game deserve recognition: Nicholas Diaz for four sacks he had during the game, Jacob Rhodes for catching at least five passes, Robert Simms for two sacks and eight to nine tackles.\nAtencio believes he has a good team.\n“We do well on the practice field and we should have beaten Faith in the last game,” the coach said. “If you don’t come out to play then you can’t win.”\nOther NYS teams from Pahrump\nFlag\nThe youth football roundup is provided by Johnny O’Neal, president of the Pahrump NYS.\nThe flag teams were away in Henderson. The league doesn’t officially keep score in 6U flag, but everyone there is taking notice of the three Jr. Trojan squads, which is exciting for the future of the program.\nThe Trojan Sword team, coached by Scott Brown, got it going early and often against the Rumble Bees. Trojan Shield played against Trojan Spear and both squads had a great time.\nTackle\nThe three tackle teams hosted their first home games of the season at Pahrump Valley High School on Saturday. The 9U team got a victory over the Southern Highland Jr. Rebels 32-6.\nThe 11U Jr. Trojans faced off against the TMT Red Lions. This was a hard-fought battle with hard hitting from both teams. After a 0-0 deadlock at the half, the Trojans came out on top with a bruising 18-7 victory.\nAfter riding high last weekend, the young 13U Jr. Trojans took on the Faith Lutheran Jr. Crusaders in a lopsided 42-6 loss. The lone score coming by Scott Oscarson late in the game. Again, big hits delivered by both teams.\nPahrump Warriors\nThe Warriors won their first home game of the season. 26-0 over the Spring Valley Jr. Grizzlies. This team is undefeated, 3-0. The Warriors have scored 72 points, allowing seven in their first three games. The next game is on the road at Faith Lutheran High School vs. the Boulder City Eagles.\nContact sports editor Vern Hee at vhee@pvtimes.com Note: The sports editor tries to get as much youth sports in as possible, which depends on space available.}}
{{The holiday season is all about giving, but one local woman is known for doing that all year round.\nBut after some health complications, she finds herself in a different situation this year.\nSo she is asking the TV5 Rescue Squad to come and give her a hand, but she isn’t looking for gifts.\n“We stopped being able to give and now we’re kind of asking for help,” said Tyann Krapohl, a mother of nine children.\nKarpohl and her family are in a financial bind this holiday season.\n“This past year been different than most years,” Krapohl said.\nKrapohl has had a tough year as she and her husband have had a series of health issues which held them back from working. Now they are asking for winter coats for her daughters.\nWhen she was able to give back, Krapohl gave away food, beds, and car rides to people in need.\nKrapohl has not only helped people, but she’s also helped rescue animals.\n“I know that we’ll be back up there to be able to help the community again because that’s what we do and what we like to do,” Krapohl said.\nKrapohl said the family’s financial struggles have put a damper on their holiday cheer.\n“It’s really put them a little bit that they can’t give as much as they use to,” said Sara Krapohl, one of Tyrann’s daughters.\nSara said her giving back is what makes her parents happy.\n“That’s part of their personality and who they are, they always give,” Sara said.\nIn an effort to raise her mother’s spirits, Sara asked friends and family on Facebook to send get well cards to their house and they got a great response.\n“We got at least 25-30 people to respond and each one has made her smile,” Sara said.\nMeanwhile, Tyann Krapohl is asking the community to give whatever they can to help her family during the winter months.\n“If anybody does see it in their hearts to help, it’s so embarrassing to ask, but boots or coats for my kids,” Tyrann Krapohl said.\nCopyright 2017 WNEM (Meredith Corporation). All rights reserved.}}
{{A huge fire swept through the Rohingya refugee camps in southern Bangladesh in the early hours of Thursday (14), the United Nations said, destroying homes belonging to thousands of people.\nThe UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) said more than 550 shelters home to around 3,500 people were either totally or partially destroyed in the blaze, as well as 150 shops and a facility belonging to a non-profit organization.\nPhotographs and video provided to Reuters by a Rohingya refugee in Nayapara Camp showed families including children, sifting through charred corrugated iron sheets to see if they could salvage anything from their still smouldering homes. But little remained of the camp, which had stood for decades, aside from concrete poles and the husks of a few trees.\n“E block is completely burned down,” said the refugee, Mohammed Arakani. “There is nothing left. There was nothing saved. Everything is burned down.”\n“Everyone is crying,” he said. “They lost all their belongings. They lost everything, completely burned down, they lost all their goods.”\nUNHCR said it was providing shelter, materials, winter clothes, hot meals, and medical care for the refugees displaced from the camp in the Cox’s Bazar district, a sliver of land bordering Myanmar in southeastern Bangladesh.\n“Security experts are liaising with the authorities to investigate on the cause of fire,” the agency said, adding that no casualties were reported.\nOnno van Manen, Save the Children’s Country Director in Bangladesh, called the fire “another devastating blow for the Rohingya people who have endured unspeakable hardship for years”.\nMohammed Shamsud Douza, the deputy Bangladesh government official in charge of refugees, said the fire service spent two hours putting out the blaze, but was hampered by the explosion of gas cylinders inside homes.\nThe Bangladesh government has moved several thousand Rohingya to a remote island in recent weeks, despite protests from human rights groups who say some of the relocations were forced, allegations denied by authorities.\nMore than a million Rohingya live in the mainland camps in southern Bangladesh, the vast majority having fled Myanmar in 2017 from a military-led crackdown that U.N investigators said was executed with “genocidal intent”, charges Myanmar denies.\nThe fire destroyed part of a camp inhabited by Rohingya who fled Myanmar after an earlier military campaign, according to refugees.}}
{{A woman testifying in Germany Monday identified three Eritrean men who allegedly held her down and repeatedly raped her near a train station last year.\nThe 28-year-old woman said in her three-hour long statement that the men took turns sexually assaulting her in a secluded area near the Muhlhausen train station in August 2016, German newspaper Thuringer Allgemeine reported. The men lured her there during a carnival near the German station, she alleged.\n“Each of them raped me three times,” she said in her statement.\nThe men would then beat and kick the woman, she claimed, adding that she tried running away and calling for help but the men had taken her phone. They later used the device to record part of the assault.\nThe three men have been charged with group rape and bodily harm, according to the newspaper. Prosecutors are using DNA evidence found on the woman and her testimony as evidence in the case.\nOne of the men previously said in court that he and the woman had consensual sex on the day of the incident.\n“I was very drunk at the carnival and I slept with her once,” the man said.\nThe two other men accused of the crime have denied taking part, claiming they were at home and asleep that night.}}
{{WATCH: Veteran-Owned Coffee Company Offers Christmas Carols By Shooting Steel Bells With Silenced Firearms\nThe veteran-owned Black Rifle Coffee Company has offered a celebration for Christmas in a video in which two sharpshooters play Christmas carols by firing away with silenced rifles at a string of musical steel bells hung on a line.\nThe two sharpshooters, dressed in Christmas sweaters start their caroling by playing “Jingle Bells,” then “Deck the Halls” before Santa shows up with an M249 SAW, firing away as he chuckles, “Ho, ho, ho.”\nThen it’s back to the sharpshooters firing away to play “O Holy Night” for a moment before they are joined by a man dressed in a pink bunny suit akin to Ralphie in “A Christmas Story.” He is admonished by one of the sharpshooters, “Ralphie, you’re going to shoot your eye out with that thing.” The other sharpshooter turns to “Ralphie,” telling him, “You owe me a suppressor.” – READ MORE\nLike Our News? Then Help Support Our Independent Journalism! $ Donation Amount: We can only deliver independent news & Intel with your support. Keep our unique voice alive. Donate Now Select Payment Method PayPal\nCredit Card\nBank Account Personal Info First Name * Last Name Email Address *}}
{{Robin’s Nest: A Christmas evolution\nThis December, as I wrestle with my holiday nemesis — the faux green garland monstrosity that I try to whack into submission and hang on my banister each year — I’m reminded of a simpler time when gifts were modest and decorations were tame and filled but one plastic storage container.\nThat time was when we were first married. He gave me wool socks and an inflatable camping mattress pad. (Are you picking up on a theme?) I gave him a tweed hat. My best friend gave us a pair of mugs painted with a couple that kissed each other when the mugs were arranged just so. We each had a stocking. Mine was quilted and lace-trimmed, a gift from my former roommate; his was a red felt version purchased from a mall kiosk with his name written on it in tacky red glitter. There was a crystal ornament from my parents that said, “Our first Christmas together.”\nThat was about it.\nOur family grew and things changed. There came the pregnant lady ornament, the Baby’s First Christmas ornament, the set of Pokémon ornaments. With each child came more stockings, stockings of all kinds from relatives of all sorts. And with each child came more ornaments, ornaments of all kinds from relatives of all sorts. I added angels and nutcrackers to the stockings and ornaments. I augmented with wreaths and stars. I began to feature a nativity scene in every room.\nSome people have all of their decorations in “the box.” I have accumulated enough boxes of Christmas stuff to decorate the country of Lichtenstein.\nAs our family grew, the gifts changed, too. One minute, I was waving a multi-purpose rattle in front of my infant’s face, and before I knew it, I was standing at the Toys-R-Us in a line so long and studded with security guards that you’d think Bono was at the other end of it.\nI see the remnants and recall the years.\nThere is the Goofy doll in a Santa suit. It was a gift from the nurses at our local hospital, where my daughter spent her first Christmas Eve with a raging upper respiratory infection. There is, believe it or not, a set of encyclopedias lined up neatly on the basement bookshelves, given years ago to my first son — who still prefers hard copy, God bless him.\nThere is an old remote wired to the TV, from the year that I was awakened at 6:30 a.m. in mid-December by a phone call from a friend; she had insider information that Costco was getting a shipment of Wii video game consoles. She picked me up and drove us there, where we waited with a small crowd outside the building while clinging to our venti lattes. I remember looking around at the other bleary-eyed mothers and thinking to myself, they weren’t there for the poinsettias.\nOur kids are getting older, and the day after Thanksgiving no longer marks the beginning of gift-hunting season for me. Still, I’ll find them a few things.\nOne son needs clothes, and he likes what I buy for him. One son wants a Tesla coil, and I do admire that particular, scientific wish. His twin never asks for anything, but he really likes bacon … and I did hear about a “bacon of the month” club. And my daughter has refused to buy herself new shoes for two years, so it’s time for me to intervene.\nThey all still like chocolate oranges, and Santa will still put toothbrushes in their stockings.\nI look around the house. The faux green garland is clinging to the banister. My angels are on the mantle, my nutcrackers are on the sideboard, there are stockings hanging all over the place. The kissing mugs are in the kitchen.\nAnd after 28 years together, he still wears the hat and I still wear the socks.\nRobin Conte is a writer and mother of four who lives in Dunwoody. She can be contacted at robinjm@earthlink.net.\nAbout Robin Conte Robin Conte is a writer and mother of four who lives in Dunwoody. She can be contacted at robinjm@earthlink.net\nFacebook Comments:\ncomments}}
{{Do not give this man a Christmas hat from a cracker (Picture: GC Images; Metro.co.uk)\nNoel Gallagher was never a fan of the Christmas period – until John Lewis used one of his tracks in their lucrative annual Christmas advert.\nThe former Oasis guitarist, 50, told of how he once hated the festive season until the British retailer decided to include the track Half The World Away in its Christmas ad in 2015, performed by singer Aurora.\nSpeaking to FACT magazine, Noel said: ‘The entire f***ing period is a stain on society. I f***ing hate it with a passion; the jingles.\n‘Although when John Lewis put my song in an ad at Christmas, I loved that. At that particular point I thought, “You know what, Christmas is alright, I’m going to give Christmas a second chance here.” I gave it a second chance, it was f***ing s**t.\n‘Too much food, too much we are the world, the jumpers, the TV presenters, the s**t adverts, the f***ing weather, the disappointed children’s faces in my house.\n‘They’ll go, “I asked for a spider?” “Yeah, but it’s f***ing illegal to bring spiders into this country”. Then they’ll be like, “What about the African tree frog I asked for?” “Yeah, that’s a big tree in Africa, we’re in a f***ing Maida Vale, how about a Maida Vale garden frog that you can get down the end of the garden?” And you get, “But that hasn’t got big red eyes”. “Well Life is a b***h, go and ask Father Christmas.'”\nHowever, it’s not all bah humbug for Noel – he is a big fan of New Year’s Eve celebrations.\nBut don’t think of bringing out chipolatas on New Year’s Eve, as he reckons the name of the sausages sound like a circus troupe.\nLiam Gallagher will receive ‘the benefits of wisdom’ from big brother Noel (Picture: PA)\nAs for what he plans to get his younger brother Liam for Christmas, the former Oasis star – who he recently made up with after a decade long feud – said he was giving his sibling ‘the benefit of my genius’.\nGood tidings to all.\nGot a story? If you've got a story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk Entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page - we'd love to hear from you.\nMORE: Liam and Noel Gallagher have finally kissed and made up after over a decade of feuding\nMORE: No Oasis are not reuniting, ever says Liam Gallagher}}
{{AP The most powerful people in the technology industry, including the CEOs of Apple, Microsoft, and Amazon, attended a series of meetings at the White House on Monday.\nOne of the meetings was a roundtable with President Trump. It was the second group meeting with the President since the election that several of the CEOs had attended.\nA dour-looking Tim Cook, CEO of Apple, was able to chat about immigration with Trump during the meeting, The New York Times' Maggie Haberman reported on Tuesday.\nCook told Trump that tech employees may be worried that they have been targeted by Trump's proposed immigration ban. He's previously said that there was an Apple employee temporarily stuck overseas when the ban was first enacted.\nLast year, Cook hosted a fundraiser for Hillary Clinton, Trump's rival during the 2016 presidential election.\nSince Trump was elected, Cook has sent company-wide emails to Apple employees objecting to Trump's immigration executive order as well as the administration's decision to withdraw from the Paris accords.\n"I've heard from many of you who are deeply concerned about the executive order issued yesterday restricting immigration from seven Muslim-majority countries. I share your concerns. It is not a policy we support," Cook wrote in the January email.}}
{{Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.}}
{{× Half of recent immigrant detainee deaths due to inadequate medical care, report finds\n(CNN) – Among 16 immigrants deaths in US government detention centers between December 2015 and April 2017, half resulted from inadequate medical care for detainees in times of need, a new report finds.\nThe report, published Wednesday, examined 15 of the deaths, which had “detainee deaths reviews” released by US Immigration and Customs Enforcement during this time period. In eight of those deaths, the reviews found a lack of satisfactory medical care which, in turn, contributed to the deaths.\nOne detainee, Jose Azurida, 54, died of a heart attack. According to the report, a guard immediately alerted a nurse when Azurida began experiencing symptoms, including vomiting and numbness in his arm. But he was not taken to a hospital for two hours. Once there, his heart was too damaged to respond to treatment and he died four days later.\nEvidence of substandard medical practices was also identified in six of the remaining death reviews, according to the report by Human Rights Watch, the American Civil Liberties Union, Detention Watch Network and National Immigrant Justice Center.\n“ICE has proven unable or unwilling to provide adequately for the health and safety of the people it detains,” said Clara Long, a senior US researcher at Human Rights Watch in a statement. “The Trump administration’s efforts to drastically expand the already-bloated immigration detention system will only put more people at risk.”\nA statement sent to CNN from ICE said the agency “takes very seriously the health, safety and welfare of those in our care, including those who come into ICE custody with prior medical conditions or who have never before received appropriate medical care. Any death that happens in ICE custody is a cause for concern.”\nThe statement said agency protocols call for deaths to be reviewed to “determine whether the detainee received appropriate health services in relation to nationally recognized standards of detention health care and practices” and an “objective examination” determines whether detention standards were complied with. Results “are provided to ICE senior management and the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties.”\n“ICE is committed to ensuring that everyone in our custody receives timely access to medical services and treatment. Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment detainees arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay. All ICE detainees receive medical, dental and mental health intake screening within 12 hours of arriving at each detention facility, a full health assessment within 14 days of entering ICE custody or arrival at a facility, and access to daily sick call and 24-hour emergency care,” according to the statement.\nReport: ‘Systemic deficits’ in health care\nThe new report said that since March 2010, 74 people have died in detention, but death reviews have only been released for 52 of them.\nIt also notes that death reviews do not represent detainee health care outcomes as a whole, but that the identification of these oversights points to “larger, systemic deficits in immigration detention facility health care.”\n“The death toll amassed by ICE is unacceptable and has proven that they cannot be trusted to care for immigrants in their custody,” said Silky Shah, executive director of Detention Watch Network, a national coalition that exposes the injustices of the US’ immigration detention and deportation system.\nThe report also identified the case of Rafael Barcenas-Padilla, 51, who was prescribed medication for an upper respiratory tract infection by an external doctor who was consulted over the phone. His ICE detention center did not have a nebulizer, a device used to deliver the medication, therefore he was not receiving it and his oxygen levels plummeted. Three days after the sharp decline in oxygen, he was sent to a hospital, where he died of bronchopneumonia.\n“ICE puts thousands of people’s health and lives at risk by failing to provide adequate medical care to the people it detains for weeks, months, and even years,” said Victoria Lopez, senior staff attorney at the American Civil Liberties Union.\nIn the fiscal year 2017 — running from October 2016 to September 2017 — 12 people died in immigration detention, which is more than any year since 2009, according to the report.\nThat same year, ICE held, on average, 40,500 people per day, the report states. In 1994, this figure was 6,800.\nEarlier this year, the Trump administration requested a budget of $2.8 billion to detain 52,000 immigrants each day, a 30% expansion.\n“To the extent that Congress continues to fund this system, they are complicit in its abuses,” said Heidi Altman, policy director at nongovernmental NGO the National Immigrant Justice Center. “Congress should immediately act to decrease rather than expand detention and demand robust health, safety, and human rights standards in immigration detention.”}}
{{× Expand Ryan Madill\nBook lovers love to buy books, but Penguin Canada is hoping that Toronto’s literary set will also love buying things related to books. The publisher has opened a small storefront in the lobby of its downtown headquarters (320 Front West). It’s a modest 14-square-metre retail space that’s packed with a selection of Penguin titles, collectors' items and book-related gifts.\n“We are continually in search of innovative ways to bring the books we are so proud to publish to readers,” says Brad Martin, president and CEO of Penguin Random House Canada. “As such, we see Penguin Shop as a research and development lab – a place where we can interact directly with consumers."\n× Expand Ryan Madill\nMerchandise includes tote bags, T-shirts, coffee mugs, water bottles, pins and notebooks, all stamped with the Penguin logo. There are also books – both classics and newer titles – by Penguin authors in addition to adult colouring books, since they’re currently in vogue.\nThe Penguin shop is open weekdays from 11 am to 7 pm.\nmichelled@nowtoronto.com | @michdas}}
{{Illegal immigrants from Central America, Nepal and Bangladesh are seen in a trailer truck after being detected by police X-ray equipment at a checkpoint in La Pochota outside Tuxtla Gutierrez, capital of Mexico's Chiapas State, in this July 23, 2013 handout X-ray image provided by the Attorney General's Office (PGR) of Chiapas State. REUTERS/Attorney General's Office/Handout\nMEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Mexico detained 94 illegal immigrants, including 19 from the Indian subcontinent, packed into a truck bound for the U.S. border, authorities said on Tuesday.\nAmong the people found near the southern city of Tuxtla Gutierrez, capital of Chiapas state, were 10 Nepalese and nine Bangladeshis trying to reach the United States, officials said.\nApprehensions of Asians immigrating illegally to the United States have increased sharply in recent years, according to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.\nAuthorities said the migrants were traveling in inhumane conditions. The driver of the vehicle, who was from central Mexico, was arrested on human trafficking charges.\nThe truck set out from Huehuetenango, Guatemala, and police detected the migrants with an x-ray at a checkpoint outside Tuxtla Gutierrez after midnight on Monday. The migrants were on their way to the United States, state prosecutors said.\nSeveral of the migrants were treated for hand and leg injuries, and some struggled to breathe due to the “overcrowded conditions” on the truck, Mexico’s National Migration Institute said.\n“It’s a long journey and they intended to travel to the United States like that, literally hidden,” said Hector Flores, a spokesman for the Chiapas state prosecutor’s office. “Obviously, those are not optimal conditions for human beings.”\nThe non-Asian migrants were from the Central American nations of Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras.\nThe entire group, which included seven minors, is likely to face deportation proceedings.\nBetween 2007 and 2011, the most recent year for which statistics were available, the number of Indian nationals apprehended by U.S. authorities jumped from less than 1,000 annually to nearly 4,000. The numbers of Bangladeshi, Nepalese and Sri Lankan migrants detained have also increased.\nThe Central Americans were charged between $4,000 and $5,000 for the journey, while the Asian migrants had to pay between $6,000 and $8,000, according to the National Migration Institute.\nAn Indian national was among a group of 165 migrants rescued by Mexican troops in June, after being kidnapped near the U.S. border and held in the state of Tamaulipas.}}
{{Auditors had no recommendations for Martin Public Schools because there was nothing to fix with the district’s finances.\nThe small district continues to keep its general fund balance above 15 percent of its revenue, something few districts can claim, according to superintendent David Harnish.\nThe annual audit was accepted at the school board’s Monday, Aug. 15 meeting.\nHe said auditing firm Maner Costerisan told the district’s financial team they were doing a great job.\n“They work with 75 school districts,” Harnish said. “The question was asked of (the auditors), what was the soundest fund balance, they said Martin was second to none.”\nBond passed\nHarnish thanked all in the wake of the district's $18.6 million bond proposal passing Aug. 2. It will help renovate the school and add a new gymnasium and performance auditorium.\nSept. 7 will be the first set of meetings to plan the project, each with its own focus: the new competitive gymnasium design and athletics; the new auditorium and music; and general construction.\nThe goal is to finalize plans and then put the various projects out for bid by Jan. 1, 2017.}}
{{Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE The Boys & Girls Clubs in New Jersey 2017 New Jersey Youth of the Year Gala took place on June 6. Ricardo Kaulessar/NorthJersey.com\nOn Monday, the Boys & Girls Clubs of America named Clifton High School senior Carlos Polanco the 2017 Northeast Youth of the Year. Polanco edged out 11 other nominees from across the Northeast. (Photo: Andrew Kelly courtesy of Boys & Girls Clubs of America)\nCLIFTON – The nation’s largest after-school organization named a city student and future Ivy Leaguer the Northeast region’s top youth – an honor which includes a $40,000 college scholarship.\nLess than two weeks after edging out 16 peers for the New Jersey Boys & Girls Club’s Youth of the Year honor, Clifton High School senior Carlos Polanco was named the winner in a regional gala held in New York City on Monday.\nThe evening ended with Polanco again rising to the top of an impressive crop of 11 fellow nominees hailing from Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont and Puerto Rico.\n"At first, when I heard my name I wasn't sure if I heard it correctly," Polanco said. "It was a magical moment and the entire thing was like a dream."\nOverwhelmed with emotion, Polanco said he failed to hold back "happy tears" and a smile that stretched from ear to ear.\nHe began his acceptance speech by first recognizing his parents, Carlos and Leydi Trinidad, who he said paved the way for his success.\n"I asked them to stand and the crowd to applaud them because I wouldn't be who I am without them believing in me and teaching me to work hard," he said. "They were incredibly happy but we didn't say much because we were at a loss for words. We just hugged each other."\nPolanco's parents, Carlos and Leydi Trinidad, are shown celebrating after their son is named the region's youth of the year winner at an awards ceremony held in New York City on Monday night. (Photo: Andrew Kelly for Boys & Girls Clubs of America)\nPolanco, a member of the Clifton Boys & Girls Club since he was 12 years old, is president of the Clifton High School student union which he founded and captain of the varsity track and field team.\nHe will attend Dartmouth College next fall and broke ground in 2016 when he was elected the first Latino governor in the 70-year history of the American Legion Jersey Boys State conference.\nEarlier this year, he led hundreds of classmates in a march on Clifton City Hall during a boisterous, but peaceful, protest of the state’s school funding formula, which officials say has left the district under-aided by a total of $450 million since 2008.\n“My philosophy is that leadership means service,” Polanco said. “My desire to lead by serving others will continue to be the hallmark of my character."\nPolanco credited his fellow members and advisers at the Clifton Boys & Girls Club for helping him become who he is today.\nHe singled out the chapter’s husband-wife duo of director Bob Foster and early childhood supervisor Mary Jo Anzaldi-Foster - who he affectionately referred to as “Mrs. A” and “Mr. Bob.” – as major factors in his success.\n“I always know they will be there for me,” Polanco said. “They and many others at the club are remarkable people.”\nThe admiration was mutual.\n“We’re so proud of him because Carlos has taken the ball and run with it,” Foster said. “The club helped him assimilate when he first came seven years ago and it brought out the true leader in him. Now he turns everything to gold. He has a very bright future and is such a good spokesperson for us.”\nFoster praised the city resident for his “thoughtful, articulate” way while unafraid to speak his mind. “The dollars will help him with the cost of college and, to give this young man an opportunity like that is what the club is all about,” he added.\nBorn in the Dominican Republic, Polanco recalls waking up some days uncertain if the family home would have electricity or hot water. After getting dressed, his mother, Leydi Trinidad, would drill him on his multiplication tables. She and her husband, Carlos Trinidad, were determined that Polanco would be the first in his family to attend college.\n“Young men from my background are not meant to be leaders who are a positive influence on their communities,” Polanco said. “Young men like me are not meant to be activists and scholars, yet this young man is. I not only break barriers, I shatter them.”\nPolanco received a $40,000 scholarship as a result of the honor and will compete in September for the national award and its accompanying $100,000 scholarship. (Photo: Courtesy of Trinidad family)\nThe 18-year-old, who became a KinderKare mentor years ago, is optimistic that his achievements will help inspire younger club members who face similar challenges growing up.\n“If they see that someone like themselves, who overcame similar obstacles, who broke barriers, can be Youth of the Year, they too will envision themselves where I stand,” Polanco said.\nThe Clifton High School student, who graduates on Friday, is hopeful he can hurdle one last obstacle in pursuit of an additional $100,000 scholarship awarded to the youth of the year winner at the national ceremony held in Washington D.C. this September. The winner will also serve as a spokesperson for the Boys & Girls Club of America and its four million members across the country.\nEarlier this month Polanco received $5,000 from the national club and $10,000 from the state chapter in scholarship funding after he was named New Jersey’s top youth. Additionally, he will serve as ambassador for New Jersey’s teenagers, said the state’s director, Susan Haspel.\nPolanco plans to study history and political science in college before pursuing a career in law. Polanco said his dream is to become a Supreme Court justice.\n“Today’s youth are often left out of conversations directly regarding them: specifically, conversations about their education,” Polanco said. “A youth movement which is organized, mobilized and determined to bring about positive change through civic engagement will be the youth movement I help bring to fruition.”\nEmail: Gicas@Northjersey.com\nRead or Share this story: https://njersy.co/2sQ2hVp}}
{{Get Daily updates directly to your inbox Subscribe Thank you for subscribing See our privacy notice Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nIf you have ever experienced heavy traffic on the Dartford Crossing, you might be able to relate to this new song.\nSomeone has released a song about the delays, Dart Charge and general distaste for the crossing that connects Essex to Kent.\nThe single, which is called the Dartford Tolls Christmas Song, has also gone viral with more than 1.5 million views and counting. It also comes with its very own official music video.\nThe number is sung by Annie Humphrey, from the Essex band Frog on a Rocket, and the lyrics were written by Simon Harris, known for this satirical 'fake news' websites, including, Southend News Network , and U OK hun .\n(Image: Absolute Photography/CU Phosco Lighting)\nHarris is also known for once convincing Katie Hopkins, a former Daily Mail journalist, that the M25 was going to be shut for a week so people could jog and cycle around the motorway, which she then announced it live on LBC Radio (1).\nThe original song, about the Dartford Crossing, has been watched more than 1.5 million times on Facebook, and a clean version (without the swearing) was released as a single in 2016.\nThe official music video was put up online on Wednesday, (December 12) and has been watched nearly 100,000 times and had more than 2000 shares.\nThe video includes people stuck in traffic whilst 'on the Dartford Crossing' and opening letters to the Dart Charge.\nThere is another part of the video which has more people singing dressed in Santa hats and a festive jumper.\nSimon Harris said in a statement: "Every week, thousands of people pay £2.50 or more to sit in miles of tailbacks between Essex and Kent, with even the smallest of accidents causing misery around the tunnel and the bridge, and with the consultation over a third Thames crossing due to end mid-December, this is a hot topic.\n"The song refers to the endless queues, the removal of the toll booths and how this hasn’t made things any better, the endless fines, and most importantly the broken promise that the crossing would be free of charge once it was all paid for.\nThere are some social media users calling for the song to reach number one.\nAll proceeds from the release of Dartford Tolls will go to Southend Little Free Pantry, an organisation that provides a ‘help yourself’ facility for local families who are in need of grocery supplies.\nThey also reach out and help people who are in need of essential non-food items.\nWatch the video below - Warning: Video contains offensive language:\nVideo Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now\nYou can also download a copy of the single here - with the proceeds going to charity.}}
{{Buckingham Palace confirms Queen will miss Sandringham Christmas Day church service due to heavy cold\nMembers of the public wait to see the royal family arrive to attend the morning Christmas Day service at St Mary Magdalene Church on the Sandringham estate in Norfolk. PRESS ASSOCIATION Photo. Picture date: Sunday December 25, 2016. Photo credit: Chris Radburn/PA Wire Archant\nThe Queen is not attending the Sandringham Christmas morning church service today as she continues to recover from a heavy cold this week, according to Buckingham Palace.\nEmail this article to a friend To send a link to this page you must be logged in.\nFile photo dated 25/12/12 of Queen Elizabeth II arriving to attend the morning Christmas Day service at St Mary Magdalene Church on the Sandringham estate in Norfolk as she will not be attending church at Sandringham this morning as she is continuing to recover from a heavy cold, Buckingham Palace has said. PRESS ASSOCIATION Photo. Photo credit: Chris Radburn/PA Wire File photo dated 25/12/12 of Queen Elizabeth II arriving to attend the morning Christmas Day service at St Mary Magdalene Church on the Sandringham estate in Norfolk as she will not be attending church at Sandringham this morning as she is continuing to recover from a heavy cold, Buckingham Palace has said. PRESS ASSOCIATION Photo. Photo credit: Chris Radburn/PA Wire\nThe Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh Prince Philip were due to leave London for the Norfolk estate by train earlier in the week, but delayed their journey until Thursday after coming down with colds.\nThe palace confirmed on Thursday that the couple had flown by helicopter from Buckingham Palace to Sandringham instead.\nBut the spokesman for the palace has this morning confirmed the Queen would not be at the usual morning service while she continued to recover.\n“Her Majesty the Queen will not attend church at Sandringham this morning.\n“The Queen continues to recover from a heavy cold and will stay indoors to assist with her recovery,” the spokesman added.\n“Her Majesty will participate in the royal family Christmas celebrations during the day.”\nDuring her annual Christmas Day broadcast, the Queen will pay tribute to inspirational people across the country.\nIn her televised message the Queen said “on our own” we could not solve global problems but the collective effect of many could have a positive impact.\nShe said: “But even with the inspiration of others, it’s understandable that we sometimes think the world’s problems are so big that we can do little to help.\n“On our own, we cannot end wars or wipe out injustice, but the cumulative impact of thousands of small acts of goodness can be bigger than we imagine.”\nIn her message to the nation the Queen singled out for special praise ordinary people like volunteers and carers doing “extraordinary things”.\nShe described how Mother Teresa, declared a saint this year by Pope Francis, summed up the contributions of these unsung heroes with the words: “Not all of us can do great things. But we can do small things with great love.”\nThere was no mention in the Christmas message of Brexit, which saw David Cameron resign as prime minister in the wake of the UK voting to leave the European Union.\nThe Queen also highlighted the work of organisations associated with members of her family, like the medical staff and crew members from East Anglian Air Ambulance with whom her grandson William flies helicopters.\nIn her message she said: “A few months ago, I saw inspiration of a different kind when I opened the new Cambridge base of the East Anglian Air Ambulance, where Prince William works as a helicopter pilot.\n“It was not hard to be moved by the dedication of the highly-skilled doctors, paramedics and crew, who are called out on average five times a day.”\nAs she spoke, footage was shown of her visit, with the Duke of Edinburgh, to the new base, with William showing his grandparents the rear of a helicopter where equipment was stored.}}
{{By Bunmi Sofola\nAs Maureen’s six-year-old son Ben, waved a letter from his school at his mum, she eagerly opened it to find out why her son was so excited. Her son came first in arts and his parents were invited to the end-of-year presentation of prizes. “Your child’s first recognition of their academic prowess is supposed to be a happy moment, an unforgettable milestone in their life. But I’ll certainly never forget my son, Ben’s first,” recalled Maureen. “Because it was the day I found out the truth about Segun my husband.\n“It started with such excitement. Ben was so happy getting on his smart uniform. He looked really grown-up and I was really proud of him. The school had organised a few photographers parents could patronise and we had a few shots of our happy moment. Ben was all over the place pointing out a few of his classmates and friends when another little girl, the same age as Ben, came running over from the other side of the assembly hall, grabbed hold of Segun’s leg in a hug and said; ‘Daddy, daddy!’ I laughed and started peeling this little girl off my husband.\n“Bending slightly, I said to her: ‘I’m sorry darling, but I think you’ve got the wrong daddy!’ She looked back at me with confusion in her eyes and said, “No, he’s my daddy. But he no longer comes to see me and my mummy.’ I looked from her to Segun and back. Why wasn’t he putting the little girl straight? And why did he look so guilty? I glanced around to see if I could see the girl’s parents anywhere. Instead, I spotted a woman across the hall looking at us with a mixture of concern and anger. I looked back at my husband. ‘What’s going on?’ I asked him angrily.”\nSuddenly, the penny dropped. This poor girl was Segun’s daughter. But how? There was no time for an explanation, the presentations were about to start. At the end of it, the parents were allowed to stay a while with the children in their classrooms. I was in a state of bewilderment. I could see the girl and her mother through the window in the classroom next to us. I could barely take my eyes off them. I didn’t hear a word of the teacher’s address to Ben’s class. I could barely speak when it was time to leave.\n“As soon as we were outside, it all came surging out of me. I turned to Segun and exploded: “What the hell is going on? Who is that little girl? Is she your daughter? How can you have a daughter the same age as Ben?’ I was so angry and confused I couldn’t get the words out properly. I broke down in tears. ‘Please tell me I’m wrong,’ I cried. He didn’t have time to answer before the little girl’s mum came walking over. ‘Hello, Segun,’ she said. ‘Bet you weren’t expecting to see us, were you?’\nShe looked as if she was going to beat him up. Segun looked petrified, looking back and forth from her to me, wide-eyed. I really started to lose my rag at this point. ‘Someone had better tell me what the hell is going on here?’ I shouted at the pair of them. ‘You heard her Segun, why don’t you tell her exactly what’s going on?’ He looked trapped with two angry women staring at him questioningly. ‘Not here,’ he said and started to walk towards the gates. I couldn’t believe what was happening. I looked at this woman, then followed Segun.\n“We were almost at the car park when Segun said to me: ‘Maureen this is Labake. That little girl is Banke. She’s my daughter.’ It was like a weird dream, an out-of-body experience, as he started to explain. He’d met this woman, Labake, while we were on break after a misunderstanding. It was during that break that I had found out I was pregnant. Labake must have gotten pregnant pretty much straight away because her daughter was born only a few months after Ben. Segun and I had gotten back together as soon as I found out I was pregnant, but he must have carried on with his double life, going back and forth from our home to hers.\n“”Where the hell have you been this past two years Segun:’ Labake yelled at him.’ ‘I’ve never asked you for much but I at least thought you wanted to be part of your daughter’s life. How do you think it’s made her feel? That all of a sudden, you just stopped coming around?’ It turned out that almost two years ago, Segun had coldly cut all contact with this woman and their daughter. He’d completely stopped seeing his own child! I felt like I didn’t really know him any more. How could the man I thought I loved and married do this to me? And how could he do that to his own flesh and blood? Not only has he cheated, he was also mean and sneaky.\n“When we first got married, he’d been doing a lot of over-time at his office and he wasn’t as mentally alert as he used to be. At the time I’d put it down to him having trouble adjusting to life as a married father, like a lot of men do. I’d tried to give a bit of freedom so he wouldn’t feel too pressurised. Now I know where he must have been going – and what he must have been doing. Weirdly, I felt I could deal with the fact he’d been seeing someone else. I might even have been able to forgive him for carrying on in secret after Ben was born. But what really made my blood boil was that he had turned his back on a young child and left her wondering why her father didn’t want to see her any more.\n“I found that so cold and heartless it made me want never to speak to him again. How can I get my head around the fact that the man I thought I loved was a liar and a cheat? We all make mistakes all of the time – facing up to our mistakes make us the decent person we should be. We’ve been only married six years and now all the magic is gone. Segun has apologised over and over again, saying he behaved the way he did because he didn’t want to hurt me. But after what he did, it’s a bit difficult to believe him. “Whether or not this marriage could be saved depends on how soon I could forgive what Segun did …. “ ,.,\nBlame It On The Slow Coaches! (Humour)\nOne evening, a husband and wife are sitting at home, waiting for dinner guests to arrive. After putting the casserole in the oven, the wife turns and screams, “I’ve forgotten the small chops! We can’t have a party without small chops! Go down into the garden and fetch some snails. I’ll boil them up and serve them with a little garlic butter, pepper and lemon.” The husband sets off to the end of the garden with a bucket and starts hunting for snails. No sooner has he started when a beautiful woman leans over the fence and casually asked him if he wants to pop over to her place for a quick drink. The husband thinks that a quick drink sniffer before dinner can’t hurt, so he climbs over the fence and goes in.\nAfter downing a martini, the woman grabs the man and begins kissing him. One thing leads to another and soon the pair are hard at it in bed. So hard, in fact, that the husband falls asleep for a couple of hours. Waking up in a panic, he grabs all his clothes and his bucket of snails, jumps back over the fence and hurtles into his own kitchen where his wife has nodded off. He trips up as he enters through the door and spills his bucket of snails over the lino and wakes her. “Where the hell have you been?”, she screams. The husband looks up at his livid wife, looks down at the scattered snails on the floor and shouts, “come on lads, we’re nearly there!”}}
{{Every time music fans flock to see their favourite star on stage there is not one performance going on, but two.\nThere is the one they see ... the rock god strutting his stuff, the musician displaying breathtaking brilliance.\nPromoter John Hessenthaler with Shane Richie (left)\nAnd there is the one behind the scenes – just as carefully choreographed and just as crucial to the show’s success.\nSo says promoter John Hessenthaler, who has spent his 40-year career pulling together all the strings that make the magic happen.\nHe has worked with some of the biggest stars, and also put on shows in village halls.\nBut whether we are talking a megastar and a crowd of thousands, or, as he put it, “two men and a dog” the principle is the same.\nPromoter John Hessenthaler with Bill Wyman\nThere is a background team doing everything from fixing the lighting, to organising portable loos, or indulging demands for white roses in the dressing room.\nJohn began his career in the 1970s running discos in village halls, while still persisting with a very different job more approved of by his mum.\nAfter leaving school he went to work for the former West Suffolk County Council at Shire Hall in Bury where he trained as a land surveyor.\n“I couldn’t stand it because it was so stuffy,” he says. “Then I went to the Gas Board, measuring up gas pipes.\n“But there comes a point where you make a decision what you want to do and I knew surveying really wasn’t for me.”\nSince then he has been very much master of his own destiny.\n“I always wonder if I had stuck at surveying what my life would be now. Quite dull, maybe,” says John who lives in Lavenham with his partner Shirley.\nDull is one thing his career has never been. A promoter’s world is a high-octane, rollercoaster ride, but it almost seems as if he never had a choice.\n“It’s kind of in my blood, You have good times and bad times. It’s about taking financial risks and pressures,” he says.\n“In what I do you learn about loads of different aspects of life ... how nice people can be and how horrible they can be.\n“But if you never take a risk you never get anywhere, and believe me, I have taken some risks.\n“I’ve hired stately homes where I’ve put on big acts like Elton John and Status Quo and financed it all myself.\n“And you’re booking people so far ahead you have think, how popular will they be in two years’ time?”\nJohn grew up in Great Waldingfield near Sudbury, with parents Fred and Vi, and sister Carol who still lives in the village.\n“When I began doing the discos in village halls in Suffolk I didn’t realise I was running a business – but even then I was.”\nGradually local bands began asking him if they could perform at the discos.\nHe moved on to promoting gigs at Bury Corn Exchange where his first big act was punk band The Clash.\nFrom then on it was onwards and upwards booking bands on tour in the UK, Europe and Ireland.\nRock icon Rod Stewart, legendary singer/songwriter Carole King, and chart-toppers like Busted and boy band Blue have all been all on his playlist.\n“I’ve done a lot of concerts with Jason Donovan ... he’s a nice guy. You usually find it’s the more sensible ones who last,”he says.\n“Some of the bands I was putting on in the 1970s I’m still promoting today.”\nThey include ever-popular Showaddywaddy, and Hot Chocolate who are still selling out huge arenas 47 years after their first top ten hit.\nThe line-ups may change, but John likens this to staff changes in a company. “Things don’t necessarily stay the same, and people want to hear the songs.”\n“My earliest recollection of putting on a really big band was Showaddywaddy at Ipswich Gaumont.\n“It was packed with screaming girls, they were like the Take That of their day. And I put them on again at the Apex in Bury last year.\n“I’m sure a lot of these stars never expected to keep going for so long.\n“Bands used to say they thought it would last a couple of years then they’d go back to whatever they were doing before.”\nPop icons Rick Astley and Lulu, and rock and blues king Bill Wyman were on the programme the first time John staged Abbeyfest in Bury’s Abbey Gardens in 2011.\nHe had only crossed paths with Bill Wyman once before, when the then-Rolling Stones bassist was already a massive star.\n“When I worked at Shire Hall my boss sent me down to the licensing office to tax his car. Bill, who had just bought Gedding Hall near Bury, was in the queue.”\nSometimes a major celebrity arrives at a gig in a surprisingly low-key way.\n“Rick Astley drove himself, so did Shane Richie when he came to Bury last year. He was just there with his band getting things out of the car.”\nThere are times John sees behind the public face of a music legend and is surprised by what he finds.\n“I was asked by an agent to meet Robin Gibb from the Bee Gees, so I went to his home.\n“On a side table was a photo of him and (his brother) Barry with Michael Jackson, who had just knocked on their door in LA one night.\n“He really wanted to go out and do shows. But he was already quite unwell, and I was struck by how lonely he seemed.”\nThese days John’s company, OEP Live, puts on up to 500 shows a year – often several on the same night.\nSince he started, the internet has completely changed the way promoters and artists work.\n“At one time if you wanted to book a band you might write to their agent. Sometimes you would just knock on people’s doors.”\nOr randomly bump into them in the street as he did with locally-based Steve Harley outside Sudbury Woolworths.\nThere have also been a few notable missed opportunities.\nColdplay’s tape lay forgotten on the back seat of his car after the then-unknown band asked him to have a listen.\nThen there was the lad from Framlingham whose manager’s email went unanswered. Yes, it was THAT lad from Framlingham.\nEd Sheeran. “Uh-oh!” John says ruefully.\nHe goes to concerts when he gets the chance. “Bruce Springsteen is one of my musical heroes. He’s still hungry for what he does. That’s like me, I’m passionate about what I do.”\nIn October John is staging a gig close to home bringing folk rock band Lindisfarne to Lavenhan Church.\nTickets for the concert on October 20 are available online at www.oeplive.com or by calling 01256 416384.}}
{{Minister of Education and Skills Development, Dr Unity Dow, says government intends to include sign language in the senior secondary schools curriculum in 2017.\nDow told parliament that the adoption of the revised senior secondary school curriculum and the sign language at that level would then be followed by reviews of the other curricular including basic education and tertiary education level to accommodate and facilitate the introduction of sign language.\n“My ministry has adopted an Inclusive Education Policy (2011) which means that all learners will access education equitably in all schools and as such Special Education Needs (SEN) learners would join their nearest school where all teachers would be able to assist them,” she said.\nDow added that the ideal could only be realized following the appropriate training of teachers and production of relevant learning materials as well as the review of the curriculum.}}
{{Whether you’re after a classic three-string cigar box guitar, a wooden snare drum, or a Blue Man Group-inspired PVC pipe organ, Cigar Box Nation has a massive repository of kits, plans, and free DIY instrument instructions to help you make whatever you’d like to play from whatever you can scrounge up.\nAdvertisement\nThe folks at Make Magazine tipped us off to the whole affair, complete with dozens of plans inspired by at-home folk musicians from the late 1800s all the way through to the end of the 20th century. There are plenty of plans for homemade string instruments, folksy washboards, drum sets, and more, along with a store where you can pick up some of the more niche parts, amps, and other tools you might need if you’re starting completely from scratch. Plus, it helps that there’s a thriving community over there too, willing to take in more of their own if more people are interested in DIY instrument-making.\nBest of all, the plans are really well put together and documented, and easy to follow. Some of them are even a joy to read even if you’re not making a cigar box guitar or a gourd banjo, or my personal favorite, the styrofoam cooler ukulele. Hit the link below to peruse all the plans, and to read more.\nAdvertisement\nCigar Box Nation | via Make Magazine}}
{{Hope all your holiday shopping is done because the weather is going to take a turn for the unpleasant today.\nYes, it's time for that most beloved term "wintry mix." The National Weather Service predicts that moisture coming from the Pacific Ocean is going to collide with our cold temperatures to bring snow, sleet and freezing rain.\nThe worst of it will likely come by Sunday afternoon.\nA winter weather advisory warns that up to an inch of freezing rain could accumulate, especially west of Interstate 205 and in the West Hills.\nNo significant snow accumulation is expected, and most of the day it'll probably just show up as "plain old cold rain," says the National Weather Service.\nBy Christmas Day -- or Monday, for those of you working -- the winter weather advisory is expected to lift and there will be a chance of rain. That will stay constant for the rest of the week and temperatures will return to the low- to mid-40s.\nIf you or someone you know needs a place to escape these cold conditions, Multnomah County has opened several warming shelters.\n-- Molly Harbarger\nmharbarger@oregonian.com\n503-294-5923\n@MollyHarbarger}}
{{— Main Menu — Home NEWS - Entertainment News TRAFFIC Weather FEATURES - Business - Health and Wellness - - Dr. Sanjay Gupta Host of the Health and Well-Being Minute – Weekdays 5am-9am - Sports - Technology AUDIO Weekdays - Jay Oliver Weekdays 5am–9am - Brian Kilmeade – Kilmeade and Friends Monday-Friday 9am-12pm - Bill Powers Local News - Your Island With Tom Schiliro - Frank Mackay Weekdays 2pm-3pm - Sean Hannity Weekdays 3pm–6pm - Out Of The Box With David Levenstein - The Open Mike Show - Mark Levin Weekdays 6pm–9pm - Jim Bohannon Weekdays 10pm-1am - John Grayson Weekdays 1am–5am - Psychic Medium LIVE! - Keeping The Spirits Alive - Christopher Hahn Sunday 6pm-8pm - Ernie Fazio – Weekends Lifestyle Saturdays - The Non-Profit Voice - Eye On Crime - Boys Under The Hood - DDI On Autism - Spotlight On Long Island Schools - Robert W. Dapelo, Esq. Divorce Course - Will You Trust Me - Cashing Out - The Miracle Mortgage Radio Show - Guaranteed Sold With Ray Manzoni - Financial Freedom - Radio Jobline - Business Profits In The Real World - Ask The Medical Expert - Cassar Courtroom - Crime Talk Lifestyle Sundays - Getting You Healthy Naturally - Sports Break - Cashing Out - The Cigar Czar - The Personal Injury Show - Let Me Call My Lawyer - The Senior Advocate - Elder Law Matters - The Christopher Hahn Show}}
{{Pittsburgh Steelers running back Le’Veon Bell played Santa Claus to his offensive line on Saturday. Bell shared this video on his Instagram of the guys who make his job easier opening the gifts he gave them including Moet champagne and custom Hublot watches.\nBell gets it that without those big boys up front, he cant’ do what he does. He currently leads the league in rushing with 1,222 yards and two games to play. Bell also has 80 catches for 627 more yards and 10 total touchdowns.}}
{{BIDI BIDI, Uganda (AP) — Scores of thousands fled the violence of South Sudan’s civil war with little but their faith. Now, in the world’s largest refugee settlement, they are improvising churches.\nThey dance and sometimes speak in tongues. Preacher Daniel Rasash falls to his knees and weeps in prayer. One old man with missing teeth shakes his hips as others ululate during a service at Yoyo Pentecostal Church.\nTens of thousands have been killed in the civil war, and close to 2 million South Sudanese now shelter in neighboring countries. As World Refugee Day is marked on Tuesday, the international community prepares to meet in Uganda to draw attention and funding to the world’s fastest-growing refugee crisis.\nThe Bidi Bidi settlement is home to more than 270,000 refugees from South Sudan. Most have arrived in the past year. The churches for the born-again Christians are oases of joy among the daily humiliations that come with rebuilding their lives.\n“We don’t have a voice. We have no authority to even say no to war,” says the preacher Rasash, 25. “The solution we have seen is maybe we kneel down praying, because the Bible says the people of Israel suffered like that for many years and when they cried to God, God listened to their prayer. In the same way we shall cry to God so that God will hear our prayer and bring back peace to South Sudan.”\nChristianity is the dominant religion in South Sudan and religious faith played a strong role in its long fight for independence from Muslim-majority Sudan in 2011. Many were horrified when the world’s youngest nation then collapsed on itself in late 2013 amid largely ethnic violence.\nHere in sprawling Bidi Bidi, the refugees meet in open-air churches rigged from timber. The seats are planks of wood or logs dug into the ground. There are no brass bands and there are not enough Bibles to go around.\nThe Sunday services are raucous events. Their drumbeats echo through villages. More than 20 churches are now spread across Bidi Bidi, according to Lilian Dawa, a refugee who serves as a community mobilizer.\nThe refugees are allocated small plots of land to erect simple homes of grass, mud and wattle. But there is no longer enough land to offer everyone a plot large enough to plant crops. The refugees depend on United Nations rations of maize meal and beans and many say that’s not enough.\nThe raw new churches offer hope.\n“We feel the pain in our hearts. There are many people who are too traumatized to come to church and they don’t know exactly what to do,” said Rasash, who fled South Sudan last year. “There are people who are sick out there and they don’t have anybody to support them. There are no drugs in the hospitals. So that’s why we are praying. God should be the one to help.”\nRasash’s church already faces apparent competition from a new church a few meters away that has neither a name nor a roof. But it has an energetic leadership team that includes 22-year-old Sylvia Sunday, who fled South Sudan last year.\n“By the power of the holy ghost,” she sings, “all the demons will run away.” Then she prepares to give her sermon, which warns of temptation.\n“The Bible teaches us to be strong, encourages us to be faithful,” she says. “All I want from the leaders of the country is to be faithful. If they can take the word of God and rule using the Bible, it would be good and peace would return.”}}
{{Please enable Javascript to watch this video\nGERMANTOWN -- The Salvation Army is wrapping up 24 hours of straight bell ringing. Donations are down, and some kettles were stolen this year.\nHeading into the Ring-A-Thon, The Salvation Army is still a ways away from its statewide fundraising goal of $3.8 million. So far, Milwaukee County has raised $2.2 million. While the Red Kettle total amount won't be counted until December 26th, Salvation Army staff say they're confident the community came through during the final hours of the fundraiser.\n"I'm a little cold but I'm excited. It's been wonderful. The people have been wonderful. It's fun," said David Politz, kettle driver.\nThe bells began ringing at 7:00 p.m. Friday, December 22nd at the Walmart in Germantown. The effort is in response to several recent setbacks this season. On December 20th, 40 red kettle stations in the county had to close early after threats were made to employees.\n"Usually kettles bring in $5,000-6,000 a day. With us closing early, that affected us greatly," said Milwaukee County Red Kettle Coordinator, T.J. Anguiano.\nThe money helps fund 80 programs for families in need throughout the county, like Coats for Kids.\n"And then recently we just launched a chaplaincy program, which helps grieving victims and family members of violent crimes in Milwaukee," said Anguiano.\nWith their money in hand and smiles on their faces, shoppers answered the call to help.\n"The generosity is amazing," said Anguiano.\n"I just think it's important at Christmas, if you can give a little, give a little bit," said Mary Merka of Germantown.\nIf you didn't get a chance to donate in person, the Salvation Army will continue to accept donations online through January 31st, 2018.}}
{{Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nIf you think you might need to visit your local pharmacy over the Christmas holidays it may be worth checking what time your chosen chemist will be open.\nHere’s a list of a number of Teesside pharmacies and their Christmas opening times:\nAsda Pharmacy, South Bank\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 9am to 6pm\nNew Year’s Day: 10am to 6pm\nBoots, The Cleveland Centre, Middlesbrough\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 9am to 5pm\nNew Year’s Day: Closed\nBoots, Cleveland Retail Park, Skippers Lane\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 9am to 6pm\nNew Year’s Day: 10.30am to 4.30pm\nBoots, High Street, Redcar\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 10am to 1pm and 2pm to 5pm\nNew Year’s Day: Closed\nBoots, Westgate, Guisborough\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 10am to 4pm\nNew Year’s Day: Closed\nBoots, Linthorpe Road, Middlesbrough\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: Closed\nNew Year’s Day: 10am to 12pm\nBoots, The Viewley Centre, Hemlington\nChristmas Day: 12pm to 2pm\nBoxing Day: Closed\nNew Year’s Day: Closed\nBoots, Parkway Shopping Centre, Coulby Newham\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 9am to 5pm\nNew Year’s Day: Closed\nBoots, One Life Medical Centre, Linthorpe Road, Middlesbrough\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 8pm to 10pm\nNew Year’s Day: Closed\nClevechem Limited, Redcar Primary Care Hospital, West Dyke Road, Redcar\nChristmas Day: 7.30pm to 9.30pm\nBoxing Day: Closed\nNew Year’s Day: Closed\nCohens Chemist, North Ormesby Health Village\nChristmas Day: 7.30pm to 9.30pm\nBoxing Day: Closed\nNew Year’s Day: Closed\nEston Pharmacy, High Street, Eston\nChristmas Day: 10am to 12pm\nBoxing Day: Closed\nNew Year’s Day: Closed\nLloyds Pharmacy, Low Grange Health Centre, Normanby Road, Middlesbrough\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 10am to 4pm\nNew Year’s Day: Closed\nLloyds Pharmacy, Linthorpe Road, Middlesbrough\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 4pm to 8pm\nNew Year’s Day: 8pm to 10pm\nLloyds Pharmacy, High Street, Loftus\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 8pm to 10pm\nNew Year’s Day: Closed\nSkelton Pharmacy, Skelton Medical Centre, Byland Road, Skelton\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: Closed\nNew Year’s Day: 8pm to 10pm\nVictoria Chemist, Victoria Road, Middlesbrough\nChristmas Day: 7.30pm to 9.30pm\nBoxing Day: Closed\nNew Year’s Day: Closed\nWell, High Street, Brotton\nChristmas Day: 4pm to 6pm\nBoxing Day: Closed\nNew Year’s Day: Closed}}
{{For the third year in a row, Topps gifted their employees with some extremely rare autographed cards.\nTwo years ago, it was Kris Bryant. Last year…Ichiro Suzuki.\nThis past week, the card company surprised their staff with one of five individually numbered Derek Jeter signed cards, each one representing one of the former New York Yankees captain’s World Series championships.\nThis year's holiday 🎁 from Topps to employees. We got one of these 5 cards … It was like they read my wish list to 🎅! #ThanksTopps pic.twitter.com/Rc2nrMJHYn — Sooz (@yanxchick) December 18, 2017\nNot too shabby, right?\nNaturally, it didn’t take long for one of the rare Jeets cards to show up on eBay…and you better believe it commanded a pretty penny.\nThe card, modeled after Topps’ 1985 set, was originally listed for $299.99. 19 bids later, the price almost doubled…ending Friday night at $460.\nWhile there’s no way (really) to figure out who sold their holiday bonus, you’ve gotta think Topps is going to somehow try to clamp down on the re-selling of their exclusive employee autographs, right?}}
{{John Cena John Felix Anthony Cena\nBirthdate: 04/23/1977 (age 39)\n04/23/1977 (age 39) Height: 6'1"\n6'1" Weight: 251 Ib Cena is known as "the face of the WWE for a lon...\nRead More »\n- A fan snapped a picture of John Cena's incredible Christmas sweater when the WWE Superstar sat next to them for breakfast.\nHad breakfast next to John Cena but certainly need to have a word with his stylist pic.twitter.com/V4QqZ4ttKL\n— CHRIS 📸 (@ohkchris) December 24, 2016\n- WWE has uploaded these 17 extreme Christmas moments to their Youtube channel. Check it out here:}}
{{Transcript for Parents recreate iconic scene from "Love Actually" just in time for Christmas\nWe'll. Rule. And we. Okay. Okay. OK. Okay. Okay. And. OK. Yeah. Okay. OK. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay okay. Okay. Or. And. Okay. Okay. A I.\nThis transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.}}
{{Lavallette-Seaside Park school pact approved\nSend-and-receive agreement is approved by NJ\nThere on this story. Click to comment.\nLAVALLETTE — This school year Seaside Park students who attend Lavallette Elementary School will be able to do so without their parents having to pay tuition.\nThe tuition bill for the 16 Seaside Park students who will be attending the school this year will be paid by the Seaside Park Board of Education as a result of a state-sanctioned send-and-receive agreement with Lavallette.\n“For the first time now, those children that choose to come from Seaside Park will come to Lavallette and the parents will not have to pay the tuition.” said Steve Shohfi, president of the Lavallette Board of Education.\n“The tuition is going to be paid by the Seaside Park Board of Education.\n“Lavallette has always had a paid tuition program and students come to us from all over. Parents want to provide their children with the education that we offer at Lavallette,” said Mr. Shohfi.\nAccording to Patricia Christopher, business administrator for the district, there were 12 students in the district from Seaside Park before the agreement.\nTuition was $7,000 per student, she said.\n“The Seaside Park Board of Education requested the state allow them to develop a send and receive relationship with us,” she said.\nAs of Wednesday, four more Seaside Park students had applied to attend school in the district.\n“We are still getting calls, so we don’t know how many we are going to end up with,” said Ms. Christopher.\nAccording to Ms Christopher, students who are in seventh- and eighth-grades would still have to pay tuition under the arrangement because the Seaside Park school was a K-6 school.\nPreviously, for seventh- and eighth-grades the students attended the Central Regional School District in Toms River.\nAccording to Mr. Shohfi, Seaside Park already has a similar agreement with the Toms River School District.\n“There was some opposition from Toms River, but the [state] Commissioner of Education ruled in Seaside Park’s favor and allowed them to develop a send-and-receive relationship with Lavallette along with the existing send- and-receive arrangement with Toms River,” Mr. Shohfi said.\nAccording to Mr. Shohfi, the school in Seaside Park closed several years ago due to low student enrollment.\n“A Seaside Park Elementary student from grade K-6 has got to go to school ... in Toms River or they were coming to Lavallette as a tuition student.\n“Now they could choose between Toms River and Lavallette at no cost to the parent,” Mr. Shohfi said.\nFor Mr. Shohfi, the new students coming from Seaside Park will have a positive impact on the district.\n“It’s going to make our numbers healthier and [Seaside Park] students are the kind of students that fit very well in Lavallette. They are a good match for the type of students we already have,” Mr. Shohfi said.\n“They come from a similar type of town and they are looking for a similar barrier island kind of educational experience, so it’s a good fit.”\nAccording to data from the New Jersey Department of Education, the Lavallette School District enrolled 143 students for the 2015-2016 school year.}}
{{DJ Khaled is interviewed on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. AP/Rex Shutterstock\nSocial media star and record producer DJ Khaled performed at Las Vegas electronic dance music festival EDC (Electric Daisy Carnival) over the weekend, but things didn’t go exactly according to plan.\nFor starters, Khaled’s set was scheduled to run for an hour, but was reportedly cut short after just 20 minutes. EDC attendees took to social media to complain about delays and other issues, with some users reporting that Khaled was booed off the stage as fans chanted the name of the next scheduled artist.\n@WORLDSTAR DJ KHALED GETS BOOED OFF STAGE AT EDC 😂 he says "DJ KHALED" , the people scream "Yellow Claw" 😂 I'm dead pic.twitter.com/Wo8WIKCFVi — Nick (@k8terh8ter) June 19, 2017\nBut Khaled told a different story of the events, blaming the mishap on production and sound issues caused by festival organizers.\n“They cut my time short and they had me back stage for a hour and half and the sound kept breaking. Then I heard my fans and I said, ‘I’m go out even if the sound cuts off and even if they cut my time short,'” Khaled wrote on Instagram.\nThe DJ elaborated in another post, claiming that he was sabotaged. “They tried to sabotage my sound so many times. They could not get the sound right on my set and I still stood on stage wit no sound and when they got the sound to work, they want cut my set short, but I still rep for my people. Anyone else would walk off stage,” he wrote.\nIn related news, Khaled’s recently collaborated with Jordan Brand on the Air Jordan 3 “Grateful,” named after his upcoming album.\nThey🚷 Tried to sabotage my sound so many times THEY couldnot get the sound right on my set and i still stood on stage wit no sound and when they got the sound to work they want cut my set short but I still rep for my people anyone else would walk off stage .. i knew my California and Vegas fans was in the building .. THEY🚷 DONT WANT US TO WIN SO WE WIN MORE FOR THERE HEAD TOP!!! It's all luv thoe .. love is the 🔑.. I forgive them … love is always the answer ! A post shared by DJ KHALED (@djkhaled) on Jun 19, 2017 at 2:17am PDT\nDJ Khaled x Air Jordan 3 “Grateful” Stadium Goods\nWant more?\nRihanna Showcases ‘Wild’ Style in New DJ Khaled Music Video\nStandout Shoes in DJ Khaled’s Star-Studded New Video\nDJ Khaled Debuts the Next Just Don x Air Jordan Collaboration}}
{{WATERBURY – City schools superintendent Kathleen Ouellette announced in a news conference at city hall today she plans to retire at the end of the 2017-18 school year, when her contract expires. Ouellette, joined by Mayor Neil M. O’Leary and…\nYou Need to be Logged in and have an Active Subscription to read the full article\nLOG IN Username Password Lost Password? Remember Me Register Lost Password\nRead more of this story and more!\nQualifying Print Subscribers have FREE access to everything on rep-am.com and our E-Edition.\nIf you are a print subscriber CLICK HERE to find out how to get access to the site and the E-Edition.\nNot a print subscriber?\nYou can purchase a single-day subscription for only $1.00 to read this and access all of our content and our E-Edition. CLICK HERE purchase a single day subscription.\nBecome an electronic subscriber to the Republican-American for only $8.67 a month. CLICK HERE.\nThere is no cost to Register\nRegistration is required to Post Comments, Purchase a Subscription, Post Reader Photos, Post Calendar Events and community news (comming soon).}}
{{The head of the nation's largest school district is stepping down, city government sources tell News 4 New York. John Chandler reports. (Published Thursday, Dec. 21, 2017)\nWhat to Know New York City Schools Chancellor Carmen Fariña will announce her departure from the Department of Education on Thursday, sources say\nShe led NYC schools for four years and implemented many of Mayor de Blasio's education policies, including universal pre-kindergarten\nFariña was a deputy schools chancellor, principal and teacher in the city school system before becoming its top educator\nThe head of the nation's largest school district is stepping down, city government sources tell News 4 New York.\nNew York City Schools Chancellor Carmen Fariña plans to announce her departure from the city Department of Education after four years on the job on Thursday, according to the sources.\nFariña, 74, will leave the post after four years overseeing the school system that educates more than 1 million students a year and implementing several of Mayor de Blasio's educational policies and campaign promises, including universal pre-K for city kids.\nHer departure is not a surprise to City Hall: Fariña had planned on retiring to Florida in 2013 but was coaxed into taking on the role by the then-newly elected mayor. City government sources said the mayor's office is already conducting a nationwide search for Fariña's replacement.\nVeteran NYC Educator Named Next Schools Chancellor\nMayor-elect Bill de Blasio appointed veteran New York City educator Carmen Farina, a 70-year-old former teacher and principal and a longtime advocate of early childhood education, as the next chancellor of the nation’s largest school system on Monday. Andrew Siff has the story. (Published Monday, Dec. 30, 2013)\nFariña had previously served as deputy chancellor of city schools under then-Mayor Michael Bloomberg. She was once also a teacher at P.S. 29 in Brooklyn's Cobble Hill and a principal at the high-achieving P.S. 6 on the Upper East Side.\nShe had worked with de Blasio as early as 2001, when the mayor was a member of Brooklyn's District 15 school board. She also served as an informal policy adviser during his first mayoral run in 2013.}}
{{Related News\nPrices of chicken in Kuje have remained fairly stable in spite of the Christmas celebration, some people shopping late for the festivities observed on Sunday.\nSome of the shoppers who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria said that contrary to their expectations, increase in price was insignificant.\nBukola Agu who said she had been a regular buyer of chicken observed that the hike in price was not significant and so would not be noticed by people who were not regular in the market.\n“There is a little increase because the chicken we were buying N1,300, is now being sold for N1,500.\n“For me, I think prices are alright because my expectation was that it will be higher considering the economic challenges and the expected rush because of the season,” she said.\nMs. Agu, however, decried the high cost of rice, palm oil and groundnut oil in the market and called on government to intervene.\nEze Nwafor, another consumer, said prices were reasonable considering what was expected, noting that the major challenge faced during the season was failure of government to pay salaries before Christmas break.\n“Prices are really reasonable because I have gone round the market and discovered that the prices of cow and goat meats are still stable.\n“The increase in the prices of other items like rice, palm oil and others, is not because of the season, so, for me, prices are reasonable,” he said.\nIn a related development, Victor Bala, a chicken seller said patronage was high but noted that most buyers had no money to spend.\n“They are really coming but the prices they have been asking for cannot even cover our cost prices.\n“From the attitudes of the buyers, one can easily understand that they have the intention but have no money to buy,” Mr. Bala said.\nHe said most of the customers resorted to buying smaller ones of between N1,500 and N1,700.\nMr. Bala called for prompt payment of salaries, especially during seasons like Christmas.\n(NAN)}}
{{Quebec mayors and environmentalists say proposed new rules for oil and gas exploration and for pipelines fail to protect water sources — and they're urging the government to go back to the drawing board.\nThe rules, set out in three sets of draft regulations totalling 270 pages, flesh out the new Petroleum Resources Act passed by the National Assembly last December.\nHowever, the Quebec Federation of Municipalities (FMQ), which has been lobbying for strict protection of drinking water sources, says the draft rules constitute "a step backward."\n"There's absolutely nothing in these draft regulations to reassure municipalities and their citizens," said FMQ President Richard Lehoux. "All they do is stir up more questions and concerns."\nGaspé Mayor Daniel Côté says he's exasperated by the lengthy regulations which he say will do nothing to comfort citizens worried about the safety of oil drilling near their homes. (Radio-Canada)\nIn the town of Gaspé, where Petrolia is expecting to move ahead with the development of its Haldimand oil-exploration project, Mayor Daniel Côté is exasperated.\n"If the government wanted to ensure that there would not be social acceptability, it's gone about it the right way," Côté said.\nPetrolia's Haldimand 4 exploratory well is located about 350 metres from the nearest home in Gaspé — too close for comfort for the town's residents.\nGaspé is one of 250 municipalities that's demanded the province establish a two-kilometre residential buffer zone to protect homeowners from drilling.\n'If the government wanted to ensure that there would not be social acceptability, it's gone about it the right way.' - Gaspé Mayor Daniel Côté\nHowever, the draft regulations allow for exploratory work to be done as close as 150 metres from a residence.\nThey also stipulate drilling would not be permitted unless it's further than:\n40 metres from a highway or railway.\n175 metres from a concentration of residential, commercial, industrial or service activities.\n180 metres from a high-capacity dam.\n275 metres from a school or daycare or health-care institution.\n60 metres from a national park or a protected area.\n1,000 metres from an airport.\nPetrolia's Haldimand 4 drill site in Gaspé (William Bastille-Denis/Radio-Canada)\nProtecting water: 'Which regulation will prevail?'\nThe draft regulations do not specifically set out any rules about drilling near sources of drinking water; those rules are set out separately in another set of regulations adopted in 2014 and confirmed earlier this month.\nThe 2014 regulations establish a protective zone of 500 metres from a source of drinking water — not the two-kilometre buffer that municipalities have asked for, but far greater than the 150-metre buffer from residences in the oil-and-gas exploration rules.\n"Which regulation will prevail?" asked the FMQ's Lehoux. "The water regulations or the hydrocarbon regulations?"\n"Water can be in great peril," said FMQ administrator Scott Pearce, who is also mayor of Gore Township in the Lower Laurentians.\n'We find this government has done absolutely nothing so far to protect waterways, and this is just another step in the wrong direction.' - Gore Township Mayor Scott Pearce\n"This goes against basic principles of environmental protection," aid FMQ administrator Scott Pearce, who is also mayor of Gore Township and prefect of the regional country of Argentueil.\n"Water seems to be in peril, from what we can see. We find this government has done absolutely nothing so far to protect waterways, and this is just another step in the wrong direction."\nThe senior director of Équiterre, Steven Guilbeault, said he doesn't understand the government's reasoning.\n"If you want to install a wind turbine, you can't put one closer than 750 metres from a house," he told CBC. "There are far fewer things that can go wrong if you install a turbine than if you start drilling for oil — in terms of water contamination, in terms of potential explosions."\n"So we can't put a wind turbine, which is one of the cleanest ways of producing energy on the planet, but you can put up gas drilling equipment or an oil well within 150 metres. It makes absolutely no sense."\nFracking is a go\nThe regulations would allow companies to employ hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, and set out how it can be carried out.\nAmong other stipulations, they require that information about the additives used in the fracking fluid be provided, along with their chemical and toxicological properties.\nQuebec environmental groups and people from Anticosti Island successfully fought drilling for shale gas on Anticosti Island. (Radio-Canada)\nIn releasing the draft rules earlier this month, Quebec's energy and natural resources minister, Pierre Arcand, said in a statement the regulations would give Quebec "the strictest regulatory framework in North America".\nTwo exploration companies, Questerre Energy and Squatex Resources & Energy, cautiously welcomed the draft regulations.\n"Our preliminary review suggests these regulations reflect some of the highest standards in North America," said Michael Binnion, president of Questerre and head of the Quebec Oil and Gas Association, in a statement.\n"They are designed to facilitate development while recognizing the importance of protecting the environment and securing local acceptability."\nSquatex, which has extensive permit holdings in the Lower Saint Lawrence, said in a statement that "this framework is in line with Squatex's priorities" and "will contribute to the growth of the Quebec economy, in respect of the environment."\nBe patient, says David Heurtel\nAs for environmental groups, Équiterre and the David Suzuki Foundation both say they are baffled by the government's inconsistency, setting ambitious targets to reduce greenhouse gases on the one hand, while encouraging petroleum exploration on the other.\n"It makes no sense," said Equiterre's Guilbeault. "The proposed regulations should simply be taken off the table."\nSustainable Development Minister David Heurtel says it is too soon to talk about 'an environmental apocalypse' out of concern about the regulations, which are still subject to change. (Photo: Radio-Canada)\nSustainable Development Minister David Heurtel said there is still work to be done on the regulations during the 45-day consultation period now underway.\n"Wait for the final product before talking about an environmental apocalypse," Heurtel said in the National Assembly earlier this month.\nHeurtel also reminded critics that all hydrocarbon projects and other "high-risk" projects will now be subject to environmental review hearings, under the new Environmental Quality Act adopted last March.\nBut Guilbeault said after taking the decision in July to ban oil and gas drilling on Anticosti Island , the government should take the next step and ban all such exploration in the province.\n"The world is moving away from fossil fuels, so we should just acknowledge this," Guilbeault said.\n"Instead of having this patchwork of regulations where you can't do oil and gas on Anticosti, but you could on the Gaspé Peninsula, and you can't do it in the St. Lawrence River but you can do it just on the side of the river — you know, let's just be clear and do it and simply ban it. Full stop."}}
{{Christmas is a wonderful time of the year, providing we remember why we celebrate the festival. All over the world, Christians celebrate Christmas with carols, readings and joy, celebrating the coming into the world of the saviour of mankind, Jesus Christ.\nNo-one is absolutely certain on which day He was born, or indeed even exactly which year, but that doesn’t really matter, because for those celebrating the true meaning of Christmas, the key belief is that Jesus Christ came into the world to save each one of us, and that He subsequently died for us on the cross and that He rose again in glory; and that is why Christians celebrate Christmas all around the world.\nWhat does that mean for us in Boston? Well, Christians should celebrate the birth of Jesus every day of their lives, but particularly on the 25th December when everyone can enjoy celebrating together. However, when we are enjoying the company of family and friends, sharing gifts and food, we should remember those people who have none of these. We should also remember those who live in desperate conditions, whether in Boston or elsewhere in the world. With that in mind, we should extend a loving commitment to those facing loneliness or hardship at the coming festivities. Feeling unloved or enduring hardship is depressing at any time, but in the gloomy dark days of December, that feeling of isolation is particularly compounded when others are seen to be partying and enjoying the company of loved ones.\nSo, my Christmas message is this: Enjoy the festivities and share your enjoyment with everyone around you, showing compassion to those who struggle against illness, loneliness and depression at this time. As your Mayor, I share my Christmas greetings with each one of you in Christ’s name, and look forward to a happy and prosperous New Year, with the prospect of the lighter, warmer days of springtime and summer to come.\nSo, have a happy and safe Christmas, remembering of course the real meaning of the celebration, and share your Christmas joy with everyone you meet.}}
{{COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (KXRM) — His journey began early this morning and will continue into the night.\nHundreds of volunteers spending the day tracking Santa from Peterson Air Force Base.\nWhat started 61 years ago by accident has since become a tradition for children across the world, wanting to know when to expect Santa Claus.\n“It started in 1955 when an ad in a local paper urging children to call in and talk to Santa,” said Lieutenant Commander Paul Noel with United States Navy. “Instead it sent them to the Continental Air Defense Command red phone.”\nThe misprint has evolved into more than 1,500 volunteers working in two-hour shifts, answering up to 10,000 calls per hour.\n“It’s been super busy,” said Robyn Slade, a Colonel with the United States Air Force. “It’s just been a lot of fun to hear how excited the kids are to find out where Santa is and when he might be at their house.”\n“It is non-stop,” said Doug Terranova, a Santa Tracker volunteer. “Kids are calling and calling. I’ve had from multiple continents kids calling, pretty much every age.”\nThe same radars, satellites, and jets that keep the country safe are the same ones used to track old Saint Nick.\n“It’s just an honor honestly,” said Terranova. “To be a part of a kids Christmas experience. These kids that I will never meet, never know and just to be able to be a part of that and kind of help make their Christmas a little more fun and festive is such an honor.”\n“You know kids from all over the country, all over the world call in and just to be able to share a little bit of the Christmas spirit with them and maybe help brighten their holiday a little bit,” said Slade.\nWhile Santa’s helpers answer each and every call, they also remind kids that Santa won’t come until they’re fast asleep.\n“Most kids just ask hey where is Santa at and we make sure when to tell them Santa will be there so they can be in bed on time,” said Terranova. “A lot of parents really appreciate that.”\n“It feels like Christmas day already because everyone is just so excited and everyone just has so much fun talking to the children,” said Noel.\nTracking Santa began at four o’clock this morning and will end at three o’clock Sunday morning.\nCheck out more holiday coverage here.\nThis is a developing story. Stay with 8News online and on air for the latest updates.\nNever miss another Facebook post from 8News\nFind 8News on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram; send your news tips to iReport8@wric.com.}}
{{Border officials are under renewed scrutiny after 7-year-old Guatemalan Jakelin Caal died last week in US Customs and Border Protection custody.\nCaal was the second child to die after entering US custody at the border this year.\nBorder agencies pointed to the risks inherent to migration journeys, while some lawmakers and human rights organizations pointed to documented patterns of poor conditions and neglect in border facilities.\nBorder officials and facilities are under renewed scrutiny after 7-year-old Jakelin Caal died last week in US Customs and Border Protection custody.\nThe Guatemalan child died at an El Paso, Texas hospital eight hours after CBP took her into custody.\nAccording to a timeline released by CBP, agents first became aware of the girl’s symptoms during a bus ride to a police station after the girl was apprehended along with a larger group of migrants.\nBy the time the group arrived at the station 90 minutes later, Jakelin had stopped breathing.\nBorder patrol officials on Friday said agents did everything they could to save the girl but that she had not had food or water for days. They added that an initial screening showed no evidence of health problems and that her father had signed a form indicating she was in good health.\nThe Department of Homeland Security’s inspector general said Friday that it was investigating the circumstances surrounding the child’s death and a DHS official said the agency’s transparency practices are also under review after it took the department nearly a week to publicly announce the incident.\nThe renewed scrutiny into the border agencies comes after over a year of public outcry prompted by President Donald Trump’s harsh immigration policies, reports of abuse and poor conditions, and a recent tear-gas-laden clash between migrants and authorities at the US border. But the incident isn’t actually unprecedented.\nCaal isn’t the first child to die after being taken into DHS custody.\ncaption Two young girls watch a World Cup soccer match on a television from their holding area at the Nogales, Arizona border station on June 18. source Ross D. Franklin/Getty\nIn May, Yazmin Juarez and her 19-month-old daughter, like Caal and her family, reached the US border in a journey to flee crippling poverty in Guatemala. Juarez and her daughter Mairee were stopped by CBP agents and held for three weeks at a detention center in Dilley, Texas, where the infant fell ill.\nJuarez said in a later lawsuit that she repeatedly requested medical attention for Mairee’s declining condition during their time at the facility, but was only prescribed medication that didn’t have any noticeable effect.\nOnce they were released to join family in New Jersey, Mariee was coughing, vomiting and battling a high fever. Juarez rushed her to an Edison, New Jersey hospital the day after landing in the state on March 25, where she was held for respiratory failure.\nMariee would remain there for weeks before she suffered a fatal hemorrhage on May 10.\nAfter Mairee’s death, Juarez filed a notice of claim against Eloy, Arizona, saying that ICE placed her and her daughter in a facility “with unsafe conditions, neglectful medical care, and inadequate supervision.” The notice goes on to claim that Mairee contracted a respiratory infection that “went woefully under-treated for nearly a month.”\nJuarez’s lawyers filed a claim last month for $60 million, to which the government has six months to respond before a suit can be filed.\n“Having made the decision to jail small children, the US government is responsible to provide living conditions that are safe, sanitary and appropriate,” Jones said of the negligence alleged in the case.\nChildren in custody\nA June report from a coalition of advocacy organizations said inadequate medical care probably contributed to the majority of deaths of detainees in immigration facilities between December 2015 and April 2017.\nSubstandard medical care caused or contributed to eight of 15 deaths reviewed, according to analysis from doctors included in the report, which was created as a collaboration between Human Rights Watch, the National Immigrant Justice Center, the Detention Watch Network and the American Civil Liberties Union. Though the deaths involved adults, a discernible pattern of neglect by facility employees is a concerning sign as agencies plan to expand their facilities to accommodate the migrant population, which currently includes approximately 15,000 children.\nAs officials maintain the quality of resources in their facilities, which are recorded in documents including inspection reports, the issue of overcrowding by unaccompanied minors near work and education age poses a much easier problem to solve than those associated with quality medical care and screening.\nThe Trump administration and border officials remain at odds with outcries from lawmakers and human rights groups, as Department of Homeland Security secretary Kirstjen Nielsen offered slight sympathy but sweeping blame to Caal’s family for her death.\nNielsen said on Fox News the child’s death was “just a very sad example of the dangers of this journey.” No questions about the quality of care she received were asked.}}
{{Open this photo in gallery People light candles and deposit flowers at a makeshift memorial in Strasbourg on Sunday. SEBASTIEN BOZON/AFP/Getty Images\nResidents of the eastern French city of Strasbourg filled a city square Sunday for a memorial to the four people shot dead and the dozen wounded by a gunman at their famous Christmas market.\nThe hour-long ceremony took place in Kleber Square by the city’s Christmas market, near where the gunman opened fire on Tuesday evening.\nAccording to the local newspaper DNA, more than 1,000 people attended the memorial, which ended with a minute of applause and a rendition of France’s national anthem, La Marseillaise.\nStory continues below advertisement\nStrasbourg Mayor Roland Ries praised the city’s resilience in the face of hardship.\n“The presence on Saturday of an extremely large crowd in the Christmas market was an illustration of our commitment to these values, on which our living together is based, which we will continue to defend against all those who want to attack it,” Ries said.\nAfter the attack, French authorities launched a massive manhunt that ended Thursday night when the main suspect, Strasbourg-born Cherif Chekatt, 29, was killed in a shootout with police in the city neighbourhood where he grew up.\nFrench authorities are still investigating the Strasbourg Christmas market attack. Chekatt’s parents and two of his brothers, who had been held by police for questioning for several days, were released on Saturday.}}
{{President Donald Trump continued to level blame on Democrats Wednesday morning for the immigration crisis as criticism grows over the separation policy.\nThe president has repeatedly accused the Democrats of holding back negotiations on immigration reform.\nIt’s the Democrats fault, they won’t give us the votes needed to pass good immigration legislation. They want open borders, which breeds horrible crime. Republicans want security. But I am working on something - it never ends! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 20, 2018\nMr. Trump also continued to accuse his rival party of playing political games, retweeting Pastor Darrell Scott:\nOnce the mid terms are over, liberals won’t talk about detained or separated illegal immigrant children until 2020. #itsallpolitics — Dr.Darrell Scott (@PastorDScott) June 19, 2018\nCopyright © 2018 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.}}
{{Photo: Steve Gullick\nThat’s a Bop is our monthlong effort to introduce you to artists and songs beyond the top-ten list. In Up Next we’re giving you a deeper look at this year’s up-and-comers, so when your friends finally discover them, you can honestly say that you prefer their first album.\nThat’s A Bop Name: Marika Hackman Album: I'm Not Your Man Hometown:Devon, England Twitter: @MarikaHackman Instagram: @MarikaHackman\nThough probably not for lack of trying, Marika Hackman could be the first musician to put a song inspired by cult lesbian drama The L Word on her album.\n“That was an inside joke between my girlfriend and I,” explains the British vocalist of the song, titled “My Lover Cindy” (named after a character on the Showtime show who is referred to only in those terms). “At the beginning of our relationship, we were watching The L Word and we thought [calling someone] ‘my lover Cindy’ was so funny. We decided it would be a really great band name.” The pair went off and wrote songs for a budding side project together. But when Hackman was working on her sophomore record, I’m Not Your Man, she used one on her own album. And her girlfriend wasn’t exactly pleased.\n“I felt really bad. It was the beginning of our relationship. But that early time is exactly what that song is talking about. You don’t trust yourself and you don’t know if you’re going to be able to commit. You’re having a really good time but you’re very self-aware of the fact that you can be an asshole and feelings can just change and it’s really terrifying.”\nHer girlfriend is still a bit mad about it, but — Hackman insists — she’s a very understanding human being.\nThe same could be said about Hackman, or at least her songwriting, which is full of keen insights on her life as a gay woman living in a time period that has yet to truly catch up. Unlike her first record, We Slept at Last, her follow-up reveals a funnier side of Hackman’s personality, one where she seems more at ease with talking about her sexuality. The album’s highlight, a Built to Spill–adjacent grunge song called “Boyfriend,” sees Hackman confronting men who sexualize queer relationships. “If I’m kissing a girl in a public space, the male reaction I’ve had on multiple occasions is, ‘Can I join in?’,” she says. “I find it really seedy and really inappropriate. It completely devalues the idea of the lesbian relationship.”\nI’m Not Your Man shines in its playful pronoun switching, stories of explicit sex, and the taut tightrope it straddles between what we might consider feminine sounds (Hackman’s voice is soft and airy) and masculine sounds (much of the record is inspired by her teenage years listening to Nirvana). On “Time’s Been Reckless,” Hackman shouts through a repeated counting sequence that calls back to Toni Basil’s cheerleading anthem “Hey Mickey” — “1, 2, 3, 4, tell her that you love her more / 5, 6, 7, 8, no more time, don’t be late.” Her strongest asset is her sense of humor, lampooning both society’s resistance to change as well as her own.\nOnline, Hackman has become just as outspoken as she is in her lyrics. In the lead up to the recent U.K. election, for example, her Twitter account was peppered with a stream of political commentary — and she used the publicity around her record release to encourage people to vote. “That’s the beauty of living in democracy and having freedom of speech,” she says. “You want to be allowed to talk about whatever you want.”\nHackman says she’s been lambasted in the past for not being publicly political enough, which she takes issue with. “People have said to me before that it’s my duty to stand up and address LGBT issues in my work, but I don’t think it’s really a duty. You have to feel really ready to do that.” On I’m Not Your Man, she says she was in a “much more confident place” when she decided to include more intimate details about her sexuality. “I feel very vindicated now in making those decisions in the first place,” she says, reflecting on the process of making the album. “After I wrote the record, I looked at it and thought, ‘Yeah, fuck it. This is my life. And it’s important to me.’”}}
{{Paul McCartney has announced his first full album of new music since 2013.\nEgypt Station is due to be released on Capitol Records on September 7.\nThe record, which shares a title with one of Paul’s own paintings, includes the double A-side singles I Don’t Know and Come On To Me.\nPaul to release all-new double A-side single ‘I Don't Know’/‘Come On To Me’. Full details on PaulMcCartney.com (link in bio) #PaulMcCartney A post shared by Paul McCartney (@paulmccartney) on Jun 19, 2018 at 9:00am PDT\nIt is his first full album of all-new music since the chart-topping record New and was recorded between Los Angeles, London and Sussex.\nAll but one track was produced by Greg Kurstin, who has worked extensively with Adele. The other track was produced by OneRepublic frontman Ryan Tedder.\nPaul said: “I liked the words Egypt Station. It reminded me of the ‘album’ albums we used to make.\nA post shared by Paul McCartney (@paulmccartney) on Jun 17, 2018 at 1:00am PDT\n“Egypt Station starts off at the station on the first song and then each song is like a different station.\n“So it gave us some idea to base all the songs around that. I think of it as a dream location that the music emanates from.”\nThe 14 songs, collected to convey a travelogue with each song capturing a place or moment, is described as a kaleidoscopic journey through myriad musical locales and eras, yet firmly rooted in the here and now.\nA post shared by Paul McCartney (@paulmccartney) on Jun 13, 2018 at 9:17am PDT\nTrack Happy With You is described as an “acoustic meditation on present day contentedness”, while People Want Peace is described as a “timeless anthem”.\nA post shared by Paul McCartney (@paulmccartney) on Jun 11, 2018 at 8:36am PDT\nSpeculation that Paul would release new music began earlier this month when he wiped all the posts from his Instagram account and began posting photos of himself at pianos and in the studio.\n- Press Association}}
{{Image caption Big eyes and a waggy tail - a winning combination at Almost Home\nWhile most of us try to wind down for Christmas - the staff at the Almost Home animal shelter are in the midst of their busiest month of the year.\nIn the last few days alone, the shelter outside Moira, County Down, has taken in 43 dogs, three cats, two rabbits, and a very lucky turkey who has escaped the Christmas dinner plate and is now called Mistletoe.\nKaren Matthews, who runs the shelter, says there are several reasons why December is always her busiest time of the year.\n"Some breeders don't manage to sell their pups in the Christmas market and want shot of them so they're not in the way for family preparations," she explained.\nImage caption Karen Matthews says some owners want to replace their old dogs with a pup\nCouncils want to see dog pounds emptied as they do not have the staff to look after the animals over Christmas.\n"Then you've also got the mix of people abandoning older dogs in favour of getting new pups for Christmas," she says.\nIrresponsible dog breeding results in a steady stream of puppies ending up at Almost Home, but it's not just younger dogs who come to the shelter.\nAbandoned\nNew resident Lucy is 14.\nShe was abandoned by her owner and became a stray before being taken in by the animal rescue centre.\nOnce she settles in, she'll move into Heather House - the retirement home for Almost Home's more distinguished tenants.\nImage caption Saved from the dinner plate - this turkey really has something to celebrate this Christmas\nMost animals at Almost Home are dogs but cats, a pig, sheep, rabbits and reptiles have all come to call the shelter home in the past few months.\nSome of them have been abandoned while others are kept as Karen's personal pets.\nThe rescue centre is now looking ahead to January - when they'll be busy re-homing animals.\nBut for anyone thinking about a dog in the new year, Karen has some advice.\nCar parks\n"Try your rescue centres first but be responsible," she said.\n"Don't meet in car parks, make sure you've seen [the animal's] mum and dad and ask your questions.\n"Dogs aren't just for Christmas, they're for life. We've become a throwaway society - it's no longer man's best friend.\nImage caption Almost Home in a nutshell\n"People think the dog doesn't match the decor, it chewed my furniture, it ripped my carpet so we'll just get rid of it and get a new one.\n"They need to realise we see the other end and pick up the pieces when those dogs come here and they are broken."\nKaren would like to see urgent reform of Northern Ireland's dog breeding laws.\n'Breeding continues'\n"We're sending dogs elsewhere in the UK, to Sweden, to Italy, trying to find good homes for our dogs and yet the breeding continues," she said.\n"Other countries ban breeding while there are animals in shelters.\n"We're fire fighting. We will never fix the problem while breeding continues like this."\nImage caption A porky interloper enjoys the festive fare\nSo what's Christmas like when you run an animal shelter?\n"Where normal people get to have a day off, we don't. There's still plenty of poo to lift, dogs need fed and watered and cared for. It doesn't matter what day of the year it is.\n"But you see their faces, you know they are safe, and it's all worth it."}}
{{Sheriff's deputies in York County, Neb., arrested an elderly California couple who had approximately 60 pounds of marijuana in their vehicle.\nSheriff's deputies in York County, Neb., stopped a pickup truck on Tuesday when they noticed it driving over the center line and the driver failing to signal.\nDuring the traffic stop, deputies noticed a strong smell of raw marijuana, the sheriff's department says.\nPatrick Jiron, 80, and Barbara Jiron, 83, said they were from northern California and were en route to Boston and Vermont.\nElderly couple claims marijuana was for Christmas presents https://t.co/aCNGKuhJE0 pic.twitter.com/HyrTJfHcvz — York News-Times (@yorknewstimes) December 20, 2017\nDeputies asked the driver, Patrick Jiron, about the odor, and he admitted to having contraband in the truck and consented to a search of the vehicle.\nWith the help of the county's canine unit, deputies searched the Toyota Tacoma. When they looked under the pickup topper, deputies found 60 pounds of marijuana, as well as multiple containers of concentrated THC.\n"They said the marijuana was for Christmas presents," Lt. Paul Vrbka told the York News-Times. The department estimated the street value of the pot at over $300,000.\nThe Jirons now face felony charges of possession of marijuana with the intent to deliver and no drug tax stamp. (Nebraska law requires marijuana dealers to purchase drug tax stamp from its Department of Revenue as evidence that the state's drug tax has been paid.)\nFor the friends and family in New England who expected a bag of weed in their stocking this year, it looks like it won't be a green Christmas, after all.}}
{{You must enter the characters with black color that stand out from the other characters\nMessage: * A friend wanted you to see this item from WRAL.com: http://wr.al/16eUN\nJust in case you have to make a last minute trip to the grocery or drug store on Christmas Eve or Christmas Day, here are the hours for our local stores.\nMost stores are closed Christmas Day, other than drug stores, so make sure you plan ahead.\nGrocery and Big Box Stores:\nAldi will be open from 9 am – 4 pm on Christmas Eve and closed Christmas Day.\nCarlie C’s stores are closing at 6 pm on Christmas Eve, 12/24 and will be closed on Christmas Day. The pharmacy will be open until 4 pm on Christmas Eve and closed on Christmas Day.\nDollar General stores are open until 8 p.m. on Christmas Eve (most stores, not all). They will be closed on Christmas Day.\nFood Lion is closing at 7 pm on Christmas Eve and they are closed Christmas Day.\nHarris Teeter will be open until 7:00 pm on Christmas Eve. They will be closed on Christmas Day. Stores will re-open on December 26 at 8 am.\nKmart stores are open until 10 p.m. on Christmas Eve. They will be closed on Christmas Day.\nKroger stores are closing at 6 pm on Christmas Eve, 12/24 and will be closed on Christmas Day. All stores reopen at 7 am on Monday, December 26, 2016.\nLowes Foods is closing at 6 pm on Christmas Eve, 12/24 and will be closed on Christmas Day.\nPublix will close on Christmas Eve at 7 pm and will be closed on Christmas Day.\nTarget stores will be open until 10 p.m. on Christmas Eve (most stores). Target will be closed on Christmas Day.\nThe Fresh Market is closing at 6 pm on Christmas Eve, 12/24 and will be closed on Christmas Day.\nTrader Joe’s will close at 6 pm on Christmas Eve and will be closed on Christmas Day.\nWalmart stores will be open on Christmas Eve until 6 p.m. (most stores). Check with your specific store for their closing time on 12/24. Walmart stores will be closed Christmas Day.\nWhole Foods Market is open until 6 pm on Christmas Eve and they will be closed on Christmas Day.\nDrug Stores\nCVS: Select CVS stores are open until midnight through 12/23. Many CVS stores will be open until 10 p.m. on Christmas Eve. Most stores are open on Christmas day but the hours will vary by store. Check with your specific store for their hours. Pharmacy hours may vary. Select CVS pharmacies will be open on Christmas Day.\nRite Aid: Christmas Eve: many stores are open 7 a.m. – 7 p.m.. On Christmas Day, many stores are open. Check with your specific store for their hours. Select Rite Aid pharmacies will also be open on Christmas Day.\nWalgreens: Many Walgreens stores will be open until midnight through December 24. Most stores open on Christmas Day. Contact your store for the specific hours of your location. Check your local store for pharmacy hours.}}
{{Migrant families from Honduras & Guatemala wait to be taken to a processing center by U.S. Border Patrol agents.\nCourtney Sacco, Caller-Times via USA TODAY NETWORK\nAt least three states have removed National Guard troops from the border in response to the Trump administration's "zero tolerance" policy's impact on families, and several other states say they are unwilling to send troops to aid the border security effort.\nPresident Donald Trump said Wednesday he would sign an executive order ending the practice of splitting up families of immigrants who enter the country illegally, but it was not immediately clear how that would work or what impact it would have on governors voicing concerns over the policy.\nMaryland Gov. Larry Hogan, a Republican, this week recalled a helicopter and four crewmembers from New Mexico. Virginia Governor Ralph Northam, a Democrat, removed similar assets from Arizona. North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper, also a Democrat, said he was calling back three soldiers from the border due to the "cruel policy of tearing children away from their parents."\n"Until this policy of separating children from their families has been rescinded, Maryland will not deploy any National Guard resources to the border," Hogan said.\nMore: Immigrant children being separated from parents: Your questions answered\nMore: Trump to sign executive order: What we know now\nMore: On social media, people ask #WhereAreTheGirls\nNortham acknowledged that his state "benefits from the important work of securing our border." But he said the state must also stand up against polices that "run afoul" of American ideals.\n“We are ready to return and contribute to the real work of keeping our nation safe," Northam said. "But as long as the Trump administration continues to enforce this inhumane policy, Virginia will not devote any resource to border enforcement actions that could actively or tacitly support it."\nColorado Gov. John Hickenlooper and Rhode Island Gov. Gina Raimondo are among several Democratic governors backing off previous plans to send National Guard troops to bulk up border security.\nHickenlooper this week signed an executive order "that keeps Colorado from using state resources to separate children from their parents or legal guardians." Raimondo called the policy "immoral, unjust and un-American."\nThe governors of Delaware, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and New York also held off on sending troops, citing the policy.\nIn April, Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced a “zero tolerance policy” requiring arrest of all immigrants who attempted to enter the country along the Mexican border without going through legal border crossings. Before that, adults who crossed the border illegally by themselves often faced arrest, but anyone who brought a child with them would not be prosecuted.\nSessions says the practice of bringing children became a form of "immunity" he wanted to end. "We cannot and will not encourage people to bring children by giving them blanket immunity from our laws," he said.\nCopyright 2017 USATODAY.com}}
{{A water tower in Sioux City is getting a new look, with a familiar name that may spark the memory of a familiar song and movie.\n“They are putting: ‘Sioux City, Home of Sioux City Sue’ and they will do three panels like that around the perimeter of the tank.” That’s Rick Mach, a spokesman for the City of Sioux City. “Sioux City Sue” was a 1945 song featured in a 1946 movie of the same name. Mach says the city had hoped to paint music from the song on the water tower as well, but was unable to get copyright permission. Mach says it’s an “off-beat” idea that will hopefully catch some eyes and spark some inside-the-car conversations.\n“We tried to do large enough letters that you can see if from the interstate,” Mach says, “because we have all those visitors that pass through the area.” Work on the tower started at the end of April. The job should be finished by mid-June.\nDick Thomas recorded “Sue City Sue” and it went was number one on the country charts for four weeks in 1945. Gene Autry sang the song in the movie. Bing Crosby also had a hit with the same song.\n(Photo and story by Woody Gottburg, KSCJ, Sioux City)}}
{{We’ve all had first-day-of-school jitters. For a four-year-old boy in Wisconsin, his bus driver was there to literally hold his hand.\nAbove, take a look at a picture captured by Axel’s mom, Amy Johnson.\nJohnson wanted to mark the big day with a photo, but when Axel got on the bus, he started to cry.\nThat’s when the bus driver, Isabel Lane, pointed to a seat right behind her and said “Buddy, you got this and will have so much fun.”\nThen, she stuck her hand behind her seat and he grabbed on.\nBy the time they got to the end of the road, he stopped crying.\nNow, he loves going to school.}}
{{While school-aged children across the county boarded the school buses for the first day of school, residents at Woodridge, a DePaul Senior Living Community in Monroe, North Carolina put their own fun spin on “back to school pictures.”\nResidents posed with back to school boards featuring information including when they graduated, their favorite food and colors, and sage advice to the next generation of students.\nWoodridge resident Libby Hess advised students to “stay in school.” Karen Burke told them to “pay attention and ask questions.” And Fred Gibbs encouraged them to “study hard.”\nOTHER STORIES ON WCNC}}
{{If you live near Vanier collegiate in Moose Jaw, you received door-to-door Christmas mail delivery this week.\n"We have sixteen Christian Ethics (CE) classes and every student in the school wrote a personalized Christmas card," explained CE teacher Lisa Busto, who said the project also involves the students heading to the areas around the MacDonald St. school and dropping one of the cards into each mailbox. Madison Thul was happy to deliver her letter\nBusto hopes the assignment will instill in her students the importance of making personal connections.\n"In the rush of Christmas you forget to do things for your community and your neighbourhood," she stated. "This year I thought 'we have to get back into the community and build some relationships'." Here's a look at some of the students on the delivery trail.}}
{{A former educational assistant in Winnipeg has been sentenced to 3 1/2 years behind bars for having a sexual relationship with a student.\nSheryl Dyck, who was 42 at the time, was arrested in 2015 after a seven-month relationship with the then 16-year-old.\nJustice Richard Saull says Dyck groomed the student by giving him money, food and drugs as their relationship became sexual.\nDyck cried and held her husband and children before she was taken into custody.\nDuring a sentencing hearing last week, the victim told court it has had a ripple effect on his life.\nHe stopped going to school and says every step forward seems like multiple steps back.}}
{{How We React and How We Recover, the new album from three-time Tony Award winner Jason Robert Brown, will be released by Ghostlight Records this month. His first solo recording in over a decade is a politically-charged, far-reaching rumination on love, family and music. The album will be available in digital and streaming formats on Friday, June 29, with a physical CD planned for later this year. The release will coincide with New York City Center's Encores! Off-Center production of Brown's landmark New York debut show Songs for a New World, which runs from June 27-30. For more information on the album, please visit www.ghostlightrecords.com/jason-robert-brown-how-we-react-and-how-we-recover.html\nHow We React and How We Recover - partly a response to our fraught political climate, part portrait of an evolving contemporary artist - is Brown's definitive interpretations of his own compositions, pregnant with emotion, capacious musical energy and symphonic sweep. "I grew up on Billy Joel and Joni Mitchell, but also Stephen Sondheim and Leonard Bernstein," reflects Brown. "All those influences sit within the work. This album has a specific emotional palette and musical aesthetic that rests between rock 'n' roll, jazz, folk, gospel and Broadway."\nThe opening song, "Hope," written the morning after the fateful 2016 U.S. Presidential election, was meant to set the tone for the record. "It's about having hope when you have no reason to be hopeful, trying to capture the positive energy of life in bad times. I still have a tough time performing it, it's a very direct expression of a very difficult emotional moment." Ultimately the album is about, as the song "Hope" itself says, being a force of good "in spite of everything ridiculous and sad."\n"The Sandy Hook school shooting just broke me," Brown continues. "My daughter was the same age as those kids and it mobilized me to do something, anything I could about the scourge of guns in this country. Ultimately, I wrote 'A Song About Your Gun.' I had to express my anger, not just for the killing of the innocent people, but the fetishization of this weapon. This object has been placed on a pedestal to become a symbol of who we are supposed to be as a country. I started writing this song to deal with that rage and now it's become my primary social issue."\n"All Things in Time" - the song which provides the album its title - closes many of Brown's concerts. With a quiet and clear-eyed optimism, the song says, "we can't predict what comes to pass, all we control is how we react and how we recover." "That line really encapsulates both the album and what it's like to live in this crazy time," Brown explains. "Let's just hang in there together. It doesn't matter if I really believe it, what matters is that I must believe it."\nOther album highlights include "Fifty Years Long," Jason's lyrical song originally written for a long-married couple he didn't know, but which ended up exploring not only his own marriage, but that of his parents and the very nature of relationships, and how they are affected by community, luck and hard work. "Melinda," infused with the chaos and energy of big band Latin rhythm, is about a rising salsa musician set in the melting pot of 1970s New York City.\n"Hallowed Ground" - an infectiously percussive chamber pop song - was inspired by his daughter's visit to the same performing arts camp Brown attended in his formative years, and the emotions from witnessing her budding musical talent. "Being a father is the thing I had to do to keep being a writer," he reflects. "There were things I didn't know how to feel, emotions I never knew existed, or how to express them. I've already said all there was to say about myself. It's very different when you are responsible for other people and every facet of their lives."\nThe Grammy Award-nominated vocalist Kate McGarry lends her voice to the bittersweet bossa nova-inspired "One More Thing Than I Can Handle." Brown recalled, "I was dazzled by her technical facility and unbelievable musicality, but she really connects with the lyrics too. I am honored that she's part of the album. She's a special artist."\n"Wait 'Til You See What's Next" - the album's ebullient closing track - was originally written as the finale of the Broadway musical Prince of Broadway, which honors Brown's mentor, the lauded director Hal Prince. Brown provided arrangements, orchestrations, music supervision, and co-produced the cast album for Ghostlight Records. "As an optimist, Hal genuinely believes good things are going to happen," says Brown. "His entire life and career are based on not the assumption, but the literal knowledge, that it's all going to work out exactly the way you want it to. He's always moving forward with positivity and belief in the future. This song was written to be in Hal's voice, but by singing it on the album, I started to find that quality in myself. The world is rough right now, but wait until you see what's next. Let's celebrate what's coming up."\nHow We React and How We Recover is produced by Jeffrey Lesser and Jason Robert Brown. Stacey Mindich and Kurt Deutsch serve as executive producers.\nBrown also is represented on Ghostlight Records with his debut solo album - Wearing Someone Else's Clothes - in addition to The Last Five Years (2002 Original Off-Broadway Cast Recording, 2013 Revival Off-Broadway Cast Recording, and 2015 Motion Picture Soundtrack), 13: The Musical (Original Broadway Cast Album, Original West End Cast Recording) and The Bridges of Madison County (Original Broadway Cast Recording).\nJason Robert Brown is a composer, lyricist, conductor, arranger, orchestrator, director and performer best known for his dazzling scores to several of the most renowned musicals of his generation. The New York Times refers to Jason as "a leading member of a new generation of composers who embody high hopes for the American musical." Jason's score for The Bridges of Madison County, a musical adapted with Marsha Norman from the bestselling novel, directed by Bartlett Sher and starring Kelli O'Hara and Steven Pasquale, received two Tony Awards (for Best Score and Orchestrations). A film version of his epochal Off-Broadway musical The Last Five Years was released in 2015, starring Anna Kendrick and Jeremy Jordan and directed by Richard LaGravenese. His major musicals as composer and lyricist include: "13", written with Robert Horn and Dan Elish, which began its life in Los Angeles in 2007 and opened on Broadway in 2008 (and was subsequently directed by the composer for its West End premiere in 2012); The Last Five Years, which was cited as one of Time Magazine's 10 Best of 2001 and won Drama Desk Awards for Best Music and Best Lyrics; Parade, written with Alfred Uhry and directed by Harold Prince, which premiered at Lincoln Center Theatre in 1998, and subsequently won both the Drama Desk and New York Drama Critics' Circle Awards for Best New Musical, as well as garnering Jason the Tony Award for Original Score; Honeymoon In Vegas, based on Andrew Bergman's film, which opened on Broadway in 2015 following a triumphant production at Paper Mill Playhouse; and Songs for a New World, a theatrical song cycle directed by Daisy Prince, which played Off-Broadway in 1995, and has since been seen in hundreds of productions around the world. Parade was also the subject of a major revival directed by Rob Ashford, first at London's Donmar Warehouse and then at the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles. Future projects include a new chamber musical created with Daisy Prince and Jonathan Marc Sherman called The Connector, an untitled new piece created with Kenneth Lin and Moisés Kaufman, and a new musical with Billy Crystal. Jason's songs, including the cabaret standard "Stars and the Moon," have been performed and recorded by Audra McDonald, Billy Porter, Betty Buckley, Karen Akers, Renée Fleming, Philip Quast, Jon Hendricks and many others. As a soloist or with his band The Caucasian Rhythm Kings, Jason has performed sold-out concerts around the world. www.jasonrobertbrown.com.\nTrack List:\n1. Hope\n2. Melinda\n3. Invisible\n4. Fifty Years Long\n5. Hallowed Ground\n6. One More Thing Than I Can Handle (featuring Kate McGarry)\n7. All Things in Time\n8. A Song About Your Gun\n9. Everybody Knows\n10. The Hardest Hill\n11. Caravan of Angels\n12. Wait 'Til You See What's Next\nRelated Articles\nMore Hot Stories For You}}
{{It’s been just over 50 years since a young British singer-songwriter took on the name Cat Stevens and soon found himself topping the charts. Now known as Yusuf, following his conversion to the Muslim faith, his newest album recalls his earliest days – and even features the first song he ever wrote. Anthony Mason reports. …read more\nSource:: CBS News Radio Entertainment}}
{{By Emma Crawford Kent\nDaily Journal\nTUPELO – Childcare professionals and early childhood educators will gather Saturday in New Albany to sharpen their teaching skills and explore new approaches to prekindergarten education.\nThe conference, “Unlocking Their Potential,” will take place at the Magnolia Civic Center and is sponsored by the Union and Lee County Excel by 5 coalitions and the Northeast Mississippi Early Childhood Association.\nJeannie Doler, conference co-chair, said there are already between 150-200 people registered for the event.\nDoler said the conference will be helpful to all kinds of professionals who work in early childcare including preschool teachers, Head Start teachers, home educators, elementary school teachers and infant/toddler teachers.\n“Everything we do, we do for the children,” Doler said. “We can’t reach each child individually, so we go above and reach the teachers.”\nThe conference will feature several presenters including authors, early childcare professionals and professors from the University of Mississippi. Attendees will also have opportunities to participate in breakout sessions and network with their peers.\n“It never hurts to bounce ideas off of one teacher to another teacher,” Doler said. “I hope they make those connections.”\nTeachers can also earn continuing education credits by attending the conference.\nMelinda Tidwell, certification manager of Lee County Excel by 5, said the conference will support Excel by 5’s mission of equipping parents, teachers and community members to prepare children for kindergarten.\n“The conference offers continuing education for early childhood educators including daycare workers,” Tidwell said. “They have a really great speaker that will energize them about early learning and give the childcare professionals a chance to network and share ideas about early childhood education.”\nWithout the funding and support provided by the two Excel by 5 groups, Doler said, the conference would not be possible.\nDoler said her hope is for teachers to attend, learn valuable lessons and immediately implement those new ideas in their classrooms. From her perspective, making a change in children’s lives begins with equipping teachers.\nDoler said she and others who help put together this weekend’s conference are committed to doing just that.\n“We want those babies to grow up and be strong leaders in Mississippi,” Doler said. “We have to give them what it takes now for them to be able to reach that.”\nAnyone wishing to attend the conference can pre-register by contacting Doler at djdoler2012@hot-mail.com or register at the door on Saturday.\nThere is a registration fee of $20 per person.\nemma.crawford@journalinc.com\nTwitter: @emcrawfordkent}}
{{Dilworth Family Sets Up Lemonade Stand to Help Kids Buy School Supplies\nAfter a Dilworth family became inspired by a philanthropic lemonade stand, they decided to set up their own\nDILWORTH, Minn. — After a Dilworth family became inspired by a philanthropic lemonade stand, they decided to set up their own.\nGiggles and Wiggles held their fifth annual lemonade stand this morning.\nKevin and Brooke Spaulding decided to continue the tradition at the Loco Daze Parade with their three kids.\nFamily and friends decked out in United Way shirts, set up decorations and sold lemonade to raise money for United Way’s school supply drive.\nThe kids say they couldn’t have been more excited to help out.\n“And it’s really fun. Yes it’s very fun. But I’m just so glad we get to do a lemonade stand today and that we get to help other children to learn and to be smart in school,” said Lexi, Delaney and Addyson Spaulding.\nKevin and Brooke have been volunteering for the drive for more than eight years.}}
{{0 President Trump to reverse course on immigrant family separations\nUnder pressure from lawmakers in both parties, President Donald Trump on Wednesday said he would sign a new executive order to stop the forced separation of illegal immigrant children and parents at the southern border with Mexico, a ‘zero tolerance’ policy that had been put in place by his administration in early May.\n“We want to keep families together, it’s very important, I’ll be signing something in a little while to do that,” the President said, meeting with a number of GOP lawmakers from the House and Senate.\n“We’re keeping families together, but we have to keep our borders strong,” Mr. Trump added.\nIt wasn’t immediately clear what Mr. Trump would sign, but the action would run counter to arguments that he and other White House officials had said for days – that only the Congress could make the needed changes on immigration dealing with family separation.\nPresident Trump: "We want security and insist on security for our country. And we will have that. At the same time, we have compassion. We want to keep families together. It's very important. I'll be signing something in a little while that's going to do that." pic.twitter.com/TTLGTw8rtG — CSPAN (@cspan) June 20, 2018\nIt was a big reversal from the President.\n“You can’t do it through an executive order,” Mr. Trump told reporters last Friday.\nThe President’s move came amid a growing firestorm of criticism in Congress from members of both parties in the Congress, stirred by stories of young children taken away from their parents.\n“This must stop NOW,” tweeted Rep. Justin Amash (R-MI), as he noted a story from his home state, where an 8-month old baby had been brought, after being taken from her parents.\nThis must stop NOW. Only one person has the power to do so while Congress works through legislation: @POTUS @realDonaldTrump. https://t.co/1FWCuJMB1f — Justin Amash (@justinamash) June 20, 2018\n“He can sign an executive order today,” said Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL), who was blocked on Tuesday from visiting a group of detained children at a federal facility in Homestead, Florida.\n“This shameful chapter in American history lies with the President and his pen,” Nelson said, arguing the President started these separations, and should halt them.\n“We must stop the madness, and stop it now,” said Rep. John Lewis (D-GA).\n“America is weakened in the eyes of the world,” added Rep. Hank Johnson (D-GA).\n“This is a policy straight from the pit of hell,” said Sen. Bob Casey (D-PA).\nThere's nothing in the law that requires children be taken from their parents. There's nothing in the law that requires them to rip an infant from a parent's arms. The decision to enact this shameful policy was a decision made by this administration and this administration alone. pic.twitter.com/8RKeBz9E6g — Senator Bill Nelson (@SenBillNelson) June 20, 2018\nGOP leaders also made clear they wanted the Trump Administration to change course.\n“As I said last week, we do not want children taken away from their parents,” said House Speaker Paul Ryan, as he urged GOP lawmakers to unite behind a pair of immigration bills which are expected to be voted on Thursday.\nBut while the Speaker and other Republicans said provisions in those bills would fix the family separation matter – those plans would not advance through the Senate – making it unlikely that Congress could anything done on the family separation matter.\nThat left the President with just one option – an administrative reversal on something that he had fiercely stood behind the effort.\nPresident Trump: "We're looking to keep families together. It's very important. We're going to be signing an executive order." Full video here: https://t.co/WcckQSGazb pic.twitter.com/Z9aPBmazg2 — CSPAN (@cspan) June 20, 2018\nThe change on illegal immigrant families came in early May, when Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced a “zero tolerance” policy dealing with those illegally coming over the southern border.\n“Today we are here to send a message to the world: we are not going to let this country be overwhelmed,” Sessions said in that May 7 speech.}}
{{General News of Saturday, 30 September 2017\nSource: bbc.com\n2017-09-30\nThe UN describes the findings as “staggering” and representing a “learning crisis”\nSix out of 10 children and teenagers in the world are failing to reach basic levels of proficiency in learning, warns a hard-hitting report from the United Nations.\nThe UN describes the findings as “staggering” and representing a “learning crisis”.\nMuch of the focus of international aid in education has been on the lack of access to schools, particularly in poorer countries in sub-Saharan Africa or in conflict zones.\nBut this new research from the Unesco Institute for Statistics warns of the lack of quality within schools – saying more than 600 million school-age children do not have basic skills in maths and reading.\nHuge divide\nIn sub-Saharan Africa, the research suggests 88% of children and adolescents will enter adulthood without a basic proficiency in reading\nAnd in central and southern Asia, 81% are not reaching an adequate level in literacy.\nThe report warns any ambitions for social and economic progress will be stifled without a literate and numerate population.\nIn North America and Europe, only 14% of young people leave education at such a low level. But, the UN research suggests, only 10% of the world’s school-age children live in these more affluent, developed regions.\n“Many of these children are not hidden or isolated from their governments and communities – they are sitting in classrooms,” said Silvia Montoya, director of the Unesco Institute for Statistics.\nShe said the report was a “wake-up call for far greater investment in the quality of education”.\nThis problem of “schooling without learning” was also highlighted by the World Bank in a report this week.\nIt warned that millions of young people in low- and middle-income countries were receiving an inadequate education that would leave them trapped in low-paid and insecure jobs.\nThe president of the World Bank, Jim Yong Kim, introducing the report, said the failures in education for so many represented “a moral and economic crisis”.\nResearchers warned of pupils in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and Nicaragua who after years in school were unable to do simple sums or read simple sentences.\nA basic level of proficiency in primary school was reached by 99% of pupils in Japan, but by only 7% of pupils in Mali, they said.\nThere were also wide gulfs within countries. At the end of primary school in Cameroon, only 5% of girls from the poorest families were at a level to continue with their education, compared with 76% of girls from wealthy families, the report said.\nWhat’s to blame?\nThe World Bank study examined the factors underlying such poor achievement:\n– It warned that in the poorest countries many pupils arrived at school in no condition to learn\n– Many had suffered from malnutrition and ill health, the World Bank said, and the deprivation and poverty of their home lives could mean they began school physically and mentally underdeveloped\n– There were also concerns about the quality of teaching, with too many teachers not being particularly well educated themselves\n– There was also a problem of teacher absenteeism in some countries in sub-Saharan Africa, which has been linked to teachers not being regularly paid.\nThe World Bank’s chief economist, Paul Romer, said there had to be a more honest admission that for many children being in school did not mean worthwhile lessons.\nHe said progress would depend on recognising that “the facts about education reveal a painful truth”.\nLack of testing\nThe report warned of a lack of scrutiny over standards and the absence of even basic information about pupil achievement.\nWhile the debate in Western countries has been about excessive testing, the World Bank said that in poorer countries, there was “too little measurement of learning, not too much”.\nBut the researchers also pointed to countries that had made progress, such as South Korea and Vietnam.\nAnd at the United Nations last week there were international pledges for greater investment in education.\n“I have decided to set education as a top priority of French development and foreign policy,” said French President Emmanuel Macron.\nFormer UK Prime Minister and UN education envoy Gordon Brown said he wanted the Global Partnership for Education, which channels aid to education projects, to have funds worth $2bn (£1.5bn) by 2020.\nThe European Union announced that 8% of its humanitarian budget would be spent on education.\nFor children missing school because of the conflict in Syria, the Education Above All Foundation and Unicef, along with other charities, committed an extra $60m (£45m).\n“Funding our education goal will do far more than place a child at a desk. It will unleash opportunity and hope,” said Mr Brown.}}
{{Photo: Scott Dudelson/Getty Images\nAs it turns out, Foo Fighters headlining Glastonbury this year really is just a courtesy to make up for Dave Grohl’s broken leg forcing them out of the slot two years ago. They don’t even need Glastonbury — the band just up and made their own music festival. Foo Fighters have announced that they faked that whole hiatus and are so sorry, but they actually spent the time making their new album, Concrete and Gold (out September 15), and, yes, creating a daylong festival called Cal Jam that they will obviously also headline on October 7 in San Bernardino, California. Queens of the Stone Age (who are also back!), Liam Gallagher, Cage the Elephant, the Kills, Japandroids, and more are all set to play the inaugural festival.\nIn a statement, Grohl says the idea for the festival came from the band’s excitement to debut their album live in a “backyard party for 50,000 people,” and to also re-create the “spirit of the original California jam.” There’ll be camping, carnival rides, a water park, a mobile recording studio, an outdoor movie theater, and general debauchery. Notably, Grohl says the new album marks the band’s first-ever collaboration with superstar producer Greg Kurstin (the man responsible for most of Adele’s 25), a meeting of two unlike minds (Kurstin mainly works with pop acts) that Grohl says resulted in an album that sounds like “Motorhead’s version of Sgt. Pepper … or something like that.” Which explains why its first single “Run” was so impossible to describe.}}
{{UPDATE: The damage from a fiery high-speed collision that left three people dead in Melbourne’s west is so horrific that police were unable to identify two of the deceased, authorities say.\nPalmers Rd in Point Cook, 23km west of Melbourne CBD, has been shut to traffic after the crash occurred just after 7.30pm on Christmas Eve.\nA shocking image of the scene shows one car engulfed in flames, with the wreckage of the other vehicle lying upside-down on the road.\nACCUSED FLINDERS ST RAMPAGER’S BIZARRE BEHAVIOUR\nCamera Icon A crash involving two cars has left multiple people dead in Point Cook. Picture: Supplied Picture: Supplied\nCamera Icon Three people were killed in the Christmas Eve fatality. Picture: Mark Stewart Picture: News Corp Australia\nTwo occupants in one car and one person in the second car died at the scene.\nA witness on Palmers Rd, who did not wish to be named, said she was sitting at the bus stop when a black car sped past.\n“They were going so fast, I only had a second to step back from the road, I was so taken by surprise,” she said.\n“Seconds later, I heard a crash. I thought the driver was doing a stunt manoeuvre at the time it happened. They came over on to the right side of the road.”\nCamera Icon A report is being prepared for the coroner. Picture: Mark Stewart Picture: News Corp Australia\nCamera Icon Police on the scene of the crash. Picture: Mark Stewart Picture: News Corp Australia\nAssistant Commissioner Doug Fryer said the driver and passenger of the black Audi could not be identified because of the horrific damage to the car.\n“At excessive speed, it’s lost control and it’s had a head-on (collision) with a small Jazz heading the other way that’s contained two women,” he said.\n“Two innocent people just trying to probably get home to wrap presents and they’ve never made it.\nHOW TO AVOID CHRISTMAS DAY TRAFFIC PAIN\nCamera Icon Police are on scene at the Christmas Eve triple fatality. Picture: Mark Stewart Picture: News Corp Australia Camera Icon Wreckage littered across the road will see Palmers Rd closed into the early hours of Christmas morning. Picture: Mark Stewart Picture: News Corp Australia\n“The vehicle that was speeding … The impact was extreme when this occurred and that vehicle has been incinerated.\n“We don’t know exactly what sex they are.”\nAsst Comm Fryer said the road was a 70km/h zone.\n“It is clear to everyone who has had a look at this scene that the speed was well in excess of 70km/h,” he said.\n“It’s clear even to a layman. This was just a tragedy that didn’t need to happen.\nWHAT’S OPEN IN MELBOURNE ON CHRISTMAS DAY?\n“The sort of speeds we’re talking about to cause this devastation are just crazy.”\nMr Fryer said the Audi was not known to police, with drug and alcohol tests to come.\nDetours are expected to remain on Palmers Rd until early Christmas morning.\nAnother traveller in the second car was transported to hospital with critical injuries.\nThe Major Collision Investigation Unit will investigate the tragic incident and police will prepare a report for the coroner.\nThis year’s road toll is now 251, compared to 282 this time last year.}}
{{Among the advantages of being a DIY band and making albums without producers and engineers and a studio is that you can record any place you want. Like, say, Kevin Costner’s house in Aspen.\nMost of the scrappy DIY set doesn’t end up here, of course, but Shakey Graves did. Alejandro Rose-Garcia, who performs as Shakey Graves, is in the middle of a 10-day recording session at the movie star’s local home. Rose-Garcia and his Austin-based rhythm section are working on their follow-up to his breakout 2014 album “And the War Came.”\nWhile they’re here, Shakey Graves is headlining Belly Up on Tuesday night, testing out some new songs. The band also headlines the Westword Music Showcase in Denver this weekend.\nThe band’s manager is a friend of Costner’s daughter, and the family has had an open-door policy for Shakey Graves on swings through Colorado.\n“When we played Aspen in the past, he was always like, ‘Hey, if you want, you guys can come up and stay for the night,'” said Rose-Garcia, who also works as a film and TV actor.\nRose-Garcia always has recorded simply and mostly at home. His drummer, Chris Boosahda, is an experienced “engineer wizard man,” in Rose-Garcia’s words, and can capture studio-quality recordings just about anywhere. When they booked the Denver festival, they figured they’d take up Costner’s offer, travel light and lay down some tracks here in the mountains.\n“We’ve found that we love doing it ourselves and not worrying about a studio or an outside engineer,” Rose-Garcia said. “If we find a great place to go to keep the distractions low and the inspiration high, we should do it.”\nPlaying a bluesy flavor of confessional folk rock and Americana, Shakey Graves hopped quickly from being an unknown singer-songwriter releasing music online to playing on David Letterman, touring the U.S. and Europe, having his hometown of Austin declare a “Shakey Graves Day” (Feb. 9 if you want to celebrate) and winning the Best Emerging Artist prize at the 2015 Americana Music Awards.\nHe began his career performing with a one-man band setup — playing a suitcase kick-drum and guitar — after realizing the limitations of performing as one guy with an acoustic guitar. In his early days, playing whatever rooms and bars would book him in Texas and Los Angeles, it was difficult to hold an audience’s attention.\n“You go play at some dingy bar on a Thursday night and whip out an acoustic guitar and expect people to give you their full attention and stop their conversations,” Rose-Garcia said. “You’d be hard pressed to find that.”\nAs a solo act, he found a cult audience and released his debut “Roll the Bones” in 2011. He first came through Aspen several years ago, opening for Shovels & Rope at Belly Up and has been back regularly.\nBut he eventually outgrew the one-man band setup, as well. He recalled reading a review of a show in Toronto, where a writer complained of all his songs sounding the same.\n“I hadn’t realized it, but it was (the same) — just four-on-the-floor and yelling about stuff,” he recalled with a laugh. “That bummed me out but also plugged me back in, make me realize that I needed to redesign what I was doing. … It was like, ‘I either have to grow more limbs or just start to work with other people and find the folks I need.”\nSo he learned to play with others, like Boosahda, and the singer Esme Patterson — who duets with Rose-Garcia on some of his best-known songs, including “Dearly Departed.”\nOn June 30, he is releasing “And the Horse He Rode In On,” a compilation of rarities and B-sides pulled from EPs he self-released in 2012 and 2015. He’s planning to play a handful of that material at Belly Up, if he can recall how.\n“There are songs on there that I don’t remember how to play, so it’s like decoding my own stupid mystery,” he said. “I’m like, ‘You know how to do this! You did it when you were 19.'”\nShakey Graves is part of a relatively new phenomenon in pop music, having built a national following by self-releasing music via Bandcamp and playing live shows, earning fans with his lo-fi debut and blowing up with “And the War Came.” From here, Rose-Garcia is figuring out how to navigate this unexpected popularity with artistic integrity.\n“The main challenge so far is balancing this ball and not paying lip service to what I think people like about my music,” he said. “Not saying, ‘Well, this worked once so let’s do it 14 times.’ But also not throwing people into the woods like, ‘Oh, you like that? We’re done with it!'”\nFinding an authentic place in between is part of his mission in Aspen.\n“I’m hoping this whole experience ends up very transcendent,” he said. “That’s the dream.”}}
{{Youngsters who have settled in southeast England after fleeing unaccompanied from countries such as Syria, Sudan, Eritrea and Afghanistan have been tackling the trauma of displacement at British Red Cross-backed creative projects.\nSome of those 14 to 19-years-old will now showcase their works at the free “ All I Left Behind, All I Will Discover ” exhibition at London’s OXO Tower from June 21 to 25.\n“The refugee crisis has led to a huge outpouring of solidarity with unaccompanied child refugees but they seldom get the opportunity to speak for themselves,” said Alex Fraser, the organization’s director of refugee support.\nThe children have channeled their emotions into meaningful drawings and sketches, transforming life jackets and vases into canvases for their creativity. The projects are aimed at helping them integrate into their new communities and will be featured in the show.\n“We hope it will provide a rare glimpse of what it is to be a child refugee and the pain, trauma and extraordinary resilience which characterizes so many of their stories,” Fraser added. A selection of their pieces are below:\nA Journey By Boat British Red Cross A young female refugee detailed her terrifying experience of crossing the Mediterranean Sea in a small and overcrowded boat via this drawing.\nNot Welcome British Red Cross A young refugee from Eritrea, who nows lives in southeast England, created this doormat to symbolize how asylum seekers and refugees are “ often the subject of negative press " in the United Kingdom.\nInshallah British Red Cross This piece is based on a horrific incident which occurred as a young refugee traveled through the Libyan desert on the back of an overcrowded pick-up truck. According to the British Red Cross, a young boy fell from the vehicle. Those onboard asked the driver to turn back and pick him up, but he just responded by saying “Inshallah” (If God wills). The truck never stopped.\nSudan British Red Cross A young Sudanese refugee created this final screen print of a tree and a house to symbolize family and home.\nLife Jacket British Red Cross “Life Jacket” consists of around 30 patches, each representing themes that are important to some of the refugees who endured horrifying sea crossings as they fled conflict and persecution, sewn onto a life vest. Poignant phrases such as “No More Tears," "A Future" and “Hello My Name Is Home Office Reference Number AB123456789” appear.\nPast, Present, Future British Red Cross Refugees' distressing pasts, their fears of the present and their hopes for the future are summed up in this piece.\nPeace British Red Cross A group of young refugees who are now living in London created this piece to highlight their hope of one day living in a world which is filled with peace, love and no racism.\nHome British Red Cross Four young refugees from Eritrea created this vase, which features their memories of home.\nHallo Frieden British Red Cross This print, which was inspired by the East African kanga textile, features the word “peace” written in various different languages.}}
{{click to enlarge Shutterstock\nDear Lindsey,\nThank you for showing us how to make cheese. Personally, I thought it was a 'cheesy' choice at first, but I enjoyed it. I enjoyed watching the slideshow about your background, it was 'udderly' entertaining. When you showed us how to get just the curds, I thought 'no whey!' You decided to 'goat' around and help us, rather than standing there. You gave us the ability to experiment with the 'raw' lab. You were 'curd-ious' and kind. Thank you for coming; you are now one of the 'flock.'\nSincerely, J.S.\nThis has been one of my favorite labs his school year so far... I'll definitely be making some cheese at home!\nI loved the way that you presented and were engaged with the students... all the other labs aren't as cool as this one!\nQ: What do you call cheese that isn't yours?\nA: Nacho Cheese.\nI had the distinct honor of being a guest presenter in 8th grade chemistry classes atlast month. The teachers,and, were in the midst of a two-week "" unit and had taught the kids the science of making bread and chocolate. I was invited to teachAlthough I've taught over 1,000 people to make various types of cheese, approximately seven of them have been middle school-aged — until now. The marathon day of teaching 8th grade cheese-making included somewhere in the vicinity of 250 students. Yikes. That's a lot of middle schoolers with a lot of energy — I have a new respect for teachers.I showed the kids a quick Powerpoint with pictures of our farm: the chickens, the goats, the bees, the garden, the milking process and the cheese-making process, and explained that, due to the lateness of the season, the goats were producing very little milk. In lieu of farm-fresh raw goat milk we used pasteurized grocery store cow's milk, and in typical chemistry class fashion, we used Bunsen burners, beakers, and well-used miniature pots.In groups of four, the kids heated the milk to 180 degrees, added vinegar, watched the precipitate (in this case, the chemical term for curds) form from the milk and vinegar solution, drained the whey and added seasoning.Drum roll, please... they liked it!Equally amazing was that they sent me thank-you letters hand written on college rule paper (not typed or texted or Facebooked or tweeted) and mailed through the good ol' United States Postal System. Further proof that the youth of today still know some of the "old fashioned" ways. One of the writers even showed quite a talent for using puns:And here's a compilation of a few other notes:And to wrap up the experience, I'll close with a joke, "curd-esy" of one of the students:Here are three things I took away from my school-teaching experience:1. When I was a middle school student, I heard my science teacher's presentation one time each day. It never dawned on me that he had to repeat the exact same class 4 times in a day. The fourth time in four hours that you hear yourself say the same thing is exhausting. My day of teaching brought a new meaning to the words "déjà vu".2. When you're the teacher, 60 minutes goes really fast.3. Teaching food science is a really great way to get kids interested in chemistry.}}
{{(CNN) Republicans across Capitol Hill are deeply divided over how to stop families from being separated at the border, as the House could vote as soon as Thursday on two immigration bills -- the first time in years that GOP has tried to address a broad solution on the issue that has split the party.\nLeadership in the Senate and the House appear to mulling conflicting approaches for how to handle the situation at the border -- whether to go big with a broader immigration package or go narrow on a specific bill addressing family separation.\nHouse Speaker Paul Ryan repeated Wednesday that his chamber is planning to vote in 24 hours on a pair of bills, one bill a conservative option without enough support to pass and another a broader immigration package that includes language to keep families together while they're processed at the border. GOP leaders are backing that option though it also lacks support it needs as of Wednesday morning.\n"The administration wants Congress to act and we are," Ryan told reporters Wednesday, adding, "I hope we will be able to pass this tomorrow."\nHouse leadership doesn't have the votes yet on their broader package, a fact that Rep. Tom Cole, a member of the GOP whip team, confirmed Wednesday morning to reporters. While leaders had long said that the conservative bill likely wouldn't pass, the question is whether they can convince members to get behind a compromise bill, which includes $25 billion in border security funding including money for the wall, a path to citizenship for recipients of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and a fix to address in part family separations at the border.\nRead More}}
{{Well readers, it is now another Christmas. I have been writing this column for more than eight years now. Almost the longest I have been dedicated to anything. Sometimes I wonder if it’s worth it or if we reached anyone along the way. However, that’s the topic of another article in the future.\nFor those of you that had a bad 2016, I wish 2017 is better. For those of you that had a good 2016, then I hope 2017 is even better still. In the Entertainment Industry, it was a very hard year. Between the many passing and the division caused by the election, things couldn’t have been much worse. I’m glad we were lucky yesterday and we didn’t lose Princess Leia. Had Carrie Fisher left us, then it would have been the final topping to the cake of 2016.\nBut, as I said earlier, this is Christmas and accordingly, we should only think about one thing now: that is the birth of the child in a manger about 2,000 years ago. As you all know, he was born into poverty in the little town of Bethlehem. It was God’s will to give us his son and to make that son human. He came to relieve us of sins. He came to take the pain and torture of those sins and make them his own. And, he came to bring peace and love to all mankind.\nSometimes, the state of the world is such that it is hard to believe Jesus succeeded. But, for those of us with faith, we know he did. He brought together the world in many more ways than he separated it. All you have to do is see the joy and love in a child’s face and you know what Jesus has accomplished.\nNow, it should be our goal to bring that joy and love from children to adults. Maybe, the election of Donald Trump to the Presidency will succeed in doing it. It truly cannot get any worse than the last eight years with President Obama. However, maybe, it will not. We will only find out as time progresses.\nIn the meantime, I wish all of you a wonderful Christmas time. May you spend it with your family and friends. And, for those of that cannot, I know they will be in your hearts. I know I will be thinking of all of you.\nMuch Peace and Love!}}
{{- Advertisement -\nInside look at kids being detained inside a detention center - Daily Mail President Donald Trump (right) has warned that America must avoid the immigration problems faced by Europe - as he blamed migrants on the continent for ...\n(Image by YouTube, Channel: Daily Mail) Permission Details DMCA\nIt's tempting to view the current crisis over separating migrant families at the U.S.-Mexico border as an example of a bureaucracy run amok, or even as made-for-media power politics between Congress and the President.\nUnfortunately, at its core it is neither of those, but rather something much more sinister: the first stirrings of out and out tyranny.\n- Advertisement -\nTyrannical rule often begins this way, as something that looks like a mistake--perhaps over-excited law enforcement people or confused bureaucrats or even inter party conflict.\nThat's the way it was in Argentina in the 1970s, when young people began mysteriously disappearing in night-time arrests by paramilitary and secret police. By the early 1980s, as the total of disappearances approached 30,000, it became clear that the disappearances were no mistake.\nWe've seen another example of exploding tyranny in Turkey, following a 2016 coup attempt. At first, it seemed like the usual response to a failed coup, with generals and high-level government officials being arrested. But as the months went by, and the detentions and arrests expanded from 10,000 to 20,000 and eventually to more than 100,000 this year--including university professors, journalists, and judges--it became clear that something much more than a response to a coup attempt was occurring.\n- Advertisement -\nUnfortunately, America's sudden fixation on separating migrant children from their parents bears similar hallmarks of tyranny. Key among these qualities are lots of seeming confusion and double talk by government officials, and finger pointing about the origination and rationale for the heavy-handed policies.\nA major goal of the confusion is to promote secrecy. If you listen closely to reports from NPR and CNN, you learn that reporters don't know such basics as how many centers there are to house children separated from their parents. Even prominent politicians seem unable to extract significant amounts of information. Reporters and politicians were allowed a short tour of one facility in Texas--which you figure has to be the most attractive facility since it is being used as a model--and that became the main source of reporting, since no one was allowed into other centers. Some reporters characterized the model center housing young children as a bunch of "cages."\nMore important, parents of children taken away have little information. NPR reported: "According to the Texas Civil Rights Project, which has been able to speak with detained adults, multiple parents reported that they were separated from their children and not given any information about where their children would go. The organization also says that in some cases, the children were taken away under the pretense that they would be getting a bath."\nThe secrecy also makes it difficult for Americans to fully appreciate the horror being visited on migrant families. So we have to rely on isolated snippets to get a sense of the trauma for the children and parents. In today's connected world, we can likely expect the first-hand accounts to gradually become public, such as one recording of ten Central American children sobbing just after being separated from their parents.\nThen there is this account in the New Yorker magazine, of a mother from Honduras who was separated from her five-year-old son six weeks ago. They still haven't seen each other, and she's frantic she'll be deported without him: "On the afternoon of their second day in detention, two male agents entered the cell. 'They didn't say anything,' Rivera told me. 'They just walked over and grabbed Jairo. It felt like my son was stuck to me. He clung to me, cried and screamed. They had to pull him away.' She pleaded with the agents to tell her what was going on. The other women in the cell were too stunned to speak, Rivera told me. In the next few hours, the agents started taking other children, too."\nThe contradictory and confusing explanations offered by officials overseeing the entire child-separation horror are also designed to suggest that no one is responsible for the outrage. That helps communicate that the events are somehow blips, exceptions, not part of any larger goal. The President has been the master of the double talk going on, seeming to change his tune by the day and hour.\n- Advertisement -\nAt several points he has blamed Democrats for somehow having "signed" something that has forced his hand, making the family separations mandatory. Except there is nothing except the policy of his own attorney general, which Trump presumably approved. Then on Monday the White House, in a press release, followed yet another path: "The harshest family separation policy is that too many Americans have been permanently separated from loved ones because of crime spilling across our border." The statement then referred to examples of American citizens who have been victimized by crime from migrants.\nThe larger message inherent in the immigration tyranny is that it could be more widely applied to American citizens regarded as enemies--journalists, university professors, opposition politicians"..the list is endless. That larger message becomes clearer by the day in the refusal of the administration to back down in the face of widespread domestic criticism and even international condemnation. Certainly putting law enforcement people through the repeated heartbreaking exercise of breaking up families and imprisoning children will serve to harden them for the real work that could be coming up before long.\nIs there anything the majority horrified by the forcible separation of families at the border can do to counter the tyranny? One obvious remedy would be for two-thirds of the U.S. House and Senate to pass legislation prohibiting the practice. Such a majority would override a Presidential veto. Another action has already begun by governors-- at least five have committed to not sending National Guard troops from their states to the U.S.-Mexican border. Trump in April said he planned to deploy 2,000-4,000 National Guard troops at the border.\nThen there is the upcoming mid-term election in November. The stakes will be very high. Tyrannical rule, once launched, isn't easily repulsed.}}
{{Home sales across the country dropped sharply last month, driven by a plunge in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) after the Ontario government imposed a tax on foreign buyers aimed at cooling the red-hot market.\nThe number of residential properties sold nationwide fell by 6.2 per cent in May compared to April, the largest month-to-month decline in nearly five years, the Canadian Real Estate Association said Thursday. The industry group, which represents real estate agents, brokers and salespeople in Canada, noted sales were down a whopping 25.3 per cent month-over-month in the GTA.\nThe data showed that while real estate may be local, the impact of changes in a market the size of Toronto can have a sweeping effect nationally.\n“This is the first full month of results since changes to Ontario housing policy made in late April. They provide clear evidence that the changes have resulted in more balanced housing markets throughout the Greater Golden Horseshoe region,” CREA chief economist Gregory Klump said in a statement.\n“For housing markets in the region, May sales activity was down most in the GTA and Oakville. This suggests the changes have squelched speculative home purchases.”\nThe Ontario government introduced more than a dozen measures, including a 15 per cent tax on foreign buyers, aimed at stabilizing Toronto’s blistering housing market. Prices have spiralled out of reach for many potential homebuyers both in and on the outskirts of the city.\nSal Guatieri, a senior economist with BMO Capital Markets, said while the rules have had an effect, they merely brought back “some semblance of normalcy after a manic winter” that will likely be short-lived.\n“Given the strong economic, demographic and financial backdrop, don’t expect the GTA market to stay down for the count,” Guatieri said in a note to clients.\n“Policy tinkering will do little to cool demand on a sustained basis. Time to take out the heavy artillery: higher interest rates. The ball is now firmly in the Bank of Canada’s court.”\nThe central bank has dropped hints that the era of historically low interest rates may be coming to an end. Just this week, governor Stephen Poloz said cuts to the benchmark rate have “done their job” as the economy builds momentum, a statement that some market watchers have interpreted as a sign that a hike could be six to 12 months away.\nIn the closely watched Vancouver market, sales were up by 22.8 per cent month-over-month. There are concerns that the city may be returning to bubble territory less than a year after the British Columbia government instituted a tax on foreign buyers of properties in the Vancouver area.\nNationally, the average price for all homes sold last month was $530,304, pulled up by Toronto and Vancouver, where it was $863,910 and $1,110,376, respectively.}}
{{(Photo by: Loop Images/UIG via Getty Images)\nIf your in need of some emergency brussel sprouts or need some more chocolate for your Christmas movie binge over the next few days, then you’ll need to make sure when your local store is open.\nMeet the real Mrs Christmas who transforms her home into a winter wonderland\nMost shops around the UK will be having different opening times than usual because of the festive period, meaning you will need to check ahead to avoid disappointment when you head out.\nMorrisons stores will have shorter opening hours at various points between Christmas and New Year, so make sure you don’t miss out.\n(Picture: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg via Getty Images)\nAll Morrisons stores will be closed on Christmas Day, with reduced hours during other parts of the Christmas period.\nFortunately, Morrisons has provided some useful guidelines of when you can expect their shops to be open.\nMorrisons opening hours for Christmas 2017 December Sat 23: 6am – Midnight Sun 24: 6am – Midnight Mon 25: Closed Tue 26: 9am – 5pm Wed 27: Normal opening hours Thu 28: Normal opening hours Fri 29: Normal opening hours Sat 30: Normal opening hours Sun 31: 10am – 4pm January Mon 01: 9am – 5pm Mon 02: Normal opening hours\nPetrol stations will be closed on Christmas Day and will close early on Christmas Eve (7pm), Boxing Day (6pm), New Year’s Eve (7pm) and New Year’s Day (6pm).\nMorrisons has provided a useful guide of its Christmas schedule which you find on the Morrisons Christmas opening times page.\nHowever, these are only the case for the majority of stores, so it is advised to check using the Morrisons Store Finder to find out the exact opening for your local shop.\nMORE: What are Asda’s opening hours for Christmas Eve, Christmas Day and Boxing Day 2017?\nMORE: What are Tesco’s opening hours on Christmas Eve, Christmas Day and Boxing Day 2017?}}
{{The video will start in 8 Cancel\nClick to play Tap to play\nGet What's On updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nSouthport was illuminated in a firework frenzy last night as the British Musical Fireworks Championship returned.\nOnce again, people were treated to an unforgettable display of light, music and bursts of colour.\nThe championships began in 1995 and are the only one of its kind in the UK.\nIt showcases displays from some of the country’s top pyrotechnic teams across three nights.\nLast night, Friday, September 29, Flashpoint Fireworks (2009 winners) and The Westcoast Fireworks Company (2005 winners) went head to head.\nThe fireworks take place in Victoria Park and will continue on Saturday and Sunday, September 30 and October 1.\nEach performance is around 16 to 18 minutes long and a judged by professionals.\nContestants must create a display that is synchronised to music and the winner is announced on Sunday after all contestants have performed.\nThe full timetable for the British Firework Championships can be found here.}}
{{After collaborating with Taylor Swift on her album "Folklore" last month, Bon Iver is now working with the Boss.\nThe Eau Claire act led by Justin Vernon released an arty, piano-led, gospel-inspired song Wednesday, "AUATC," an acronym for "Ate Up All Their Cake."\nThe hopeful song is co-written by Vernon and frequent collaborator and fellow Eau Claire native Phil Cook. And listed in the vocals credits is none other than Bruce Springsteen, alongside Jenny Lewis, Jenn Wasner and Elsa Jensen — although it's hard to distinguish the voices given the vocals' higher-pitched aesthetic.\nWith the song, Bon Iver is also encouraging listeners to donate to a number of organizations, including the Red Letter Grant, a Wisconsin organization supporting female entrepreneurs.\nOther organizations Bon Iver endorsed with the song's release Wednesday include the National Independent Venue Association, the Equal Justice Initiative, 350.org, and the Minneapolis Sanctuary Movement.\n"We must empower and embrace our vulnerable neighbors," Bon Iver wrote in a four-paragraph statement with the song's release. "We must fight racism and sexism and classism to build a stronger foundation for the home we all deserve. We must support the leaders and organizations working to change our world for the better."\n"AUATC" is the third song released by Bon Iver during the pandemic. "PDLIF," which stands for "Please Don't Live in Fear," came out in April to benefit the nonprofit Direct Relief, which is supplying protective gear and medications to health care workers helping people fighting COVID-19.\nThen last month, Bon Iver collaborated with Taylor Swift on the song "Exile" from her blockbuster surprise album "Folklore."\nRELATED:Bon Iver's Justin Vernon, Summerfest, Pabst Theater Group among PPP loan recipients in Wisconsin\nRELATED:Wisconsin Congressman Ron Kind introduces bill to help music venues, with advice from Justin Vernon\nContact Piet at (414) 223-5162 or plevy@journalsentinel.com. Follow him on Twitter at @pietlevy or Facebook at facebook.com/PietLevyMJS.\nPiet also talks concerts, local music and more on "TAP'd In" with Jordan Lee. Hear it at 8 a.m. Thursdays on WYMS-FM (88.9), or wherever you get your podcasts.}}
{{Alamy Live News. European Union is “at a crossroads” over how to respond to the migrant crisis\nEurope’s newest members, Eastern countries, do not have the same tradition of accepting migrants as the bloc’s founding members. The divide is historic Didier Leschi, head of OFFI\nDidier Leschi, head of OFFI, said: “Europe is at a crossroads.” He added the EU is more divided than ever over the migrant crisis and how to share the refugee burden. There is a “deep divide” between the “two Europes” on the question, Mr Leschi said, referring to the EU’s founding members and the recently joined, more immigration-averse eastern EU states. Mr Leschi said: “Europe’s newest members, Eastern countries, do not have the same tradition of accepting migrants as the bloc’s founding members. The divide is historic.”\nThe immigration chief called for more dialogue between Northern and Southern EU states. Mr Leschi added Italy’s new populist government was calling into question European unity by ignoring Europe’s long-standing tradition of welcoming refugees. Italy is one of the bloc’s six founding members. Rome’s controversial rejection of a rescue ship with some 630 migrants on board last week “poses a problem of solidarity” between member states, Mr Leschi warned. The question of how to curb illegal immigration and of how many migrants the bloc can realistically absorb came back into the spotlight last week after Italy closed its doors to the drifting rescue boat, which was eventually accepted by Spain.\nItaly says it prefers the EU’s border agency Frontex to work in Africa to prevent people from coming to Europe rather than have to patrol the Mediterranean and rescue those stranded at sea. An idea echoed by Mr Leschi, who also urged the EU to work hand in glove with the countries of departure. He said: “Some people are genuinely in need of protection, but there are also some who are not fleeing political repression. We must ensure that economic migrants are less tempted to leave their homes by holding the countries of departure more accountable.”\nEPA German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French President Emmanuel Macron and Jean-Claude Juncker}}
{{For those living hand to mouth, the holiday season brings added stress: ‘Every time you get an extra penny, something comes along that costs a nickel more’\nA pile of assorted Christmas cards, decorated with snowmen, Santa and the baby Jesus, sits gathering dust in Sepia Coleman’s dresser drawer. This year, the 46-year-old grandmother won’t have the money for stamps to send them out.\nInstead Coleman, a home healthcare worker in Memphis, who works three different jobs at wages that hover around $8.50 an hour, will care for patients on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day in hopes of earning enough money to stave off eviction.\nAt a time when labor market and consumer spending statistics point to a booming holiday season economy, Coleman is one of millions of Americans who are one missed paycheck away from homelessness. Some must even choose between holiday gifts and rent.\nColeman has already received a warning from her usually agreeable landlady that she needs to catch up on back rent by Christmas or face eviction. She makes $1,300 a month and pays $600 rent. She recently had to take out a payday loan because the power company had turned off her electricity. Now she isn’t sure where she will come up with the extra $200 she needs to stay in her apartment.\n“The holidays are very depressing for me,” said Coleman. “I’m not a material person. But I don’t have the extra to spend. I’ve been stretching to make ends meet. But I can’t even get the ends to come close to each other.”\nWhile the economic indicators are up for some, a deeper look at the realities facing those at the lower end of the economic spectrum shows many who, like Coleman, are barely able to hang on. For instance, a survey of nearly 7,000 Americans released by the Federal Reserve Board in May found just under half of respondents said they would not be able to handle a $400 emergency expense, without having to borrow.\nUS spends twice as much on tax break for rich as on rent for the poorest Read more\n“People are working; they are just not working at high enough wages or for enough hours,” said Sarah Bohn, a research fellow at the Public Policy Institute of California, who studies the economics of poverty. “Wages are not increasing at the rate housing costs are rising. We see that as the number one factor driving poverty.”\nTonia McMillian, who has been running a home-based childcare center in Bellflower, California, for the last 25 years, recently had to scale her program down to six children from 12, because when she paid her assistants minimum wage she found she was no longer earning it herself.\nFacebook Twitter Pinterest Sepia Coleman shows a stash of holiday cards for which she cannot afford postage. Photograph: Andrea Morales/Andrea Morales for The Guardian\nAfter business expenses and taxes, she said she only makes about $12,000 a year.\n“Every time you get an extra penny,” she said, “something comes along that costs a nickel more.”\nFor the holidays, she wanted to get gifts for the children she cares for, so she is financing it through an online retailer that offers credit for purchases. She’ll be paying it off for the whole year.\nSarah Delte is just managing to survive being a single mom in the expensive San Jose, California, housing market. She said she scrapes by because she has a Section 8 housing subsidy, food stamps and her mother living with her, in addition to having a part-time job at Jack in the Box.\nBut even working in a city, where the $12 minimum wage will go up to $13.50 on 1 January, Delte said she wouldn’t be able to afford her $2,500 rent without a housing subsidy.\n“I’m blessed to have help,” she said. “There are a lot of people who are working and who don’t have anything to fall back on.”\nAnn, a home healthcare worker raising a 10-year-old son in Vancouver, Washington, doesn’t know how she would do it if she didn’t have her fiance to share her $1,300 a month rent. The holidays just add a strain to her budget.\n“The whole thing’s expensive,” said Ann, who did not want to give her last name. “There’s the Christmas tree. Then you’re expected to host dinner and buy presents.”\nThis year she had to wrestle with whether to spend the money to take her son to the holiday light show at the nearby Oregon zoo. In the end, she decided it was worth scrimping on something else, so she could spend time with her son.\nCharities and homeless services groups around the US will often hold an adopt-a-family program so that donors can help families who are homeless or on the verge celebrate the holidays with gifts.\n“That tries to address the problem of what do families do for the holidays,” said Lenine Umali, of the nonprofit Compass Family Services in San Francisco. “And there are people who do want to help.”\nFor Tonia McMillian, the best holiday strategy is to throw her energy into sharing Christmas with the children she cares for and worry about the bills later.\n“I put up the tree this week,” she said. “Me and the kids are going to decorate it. Then we will probably bake cookies.”\n“Beyond that, I don’t know,” she said. “I’ll figure it out. I always do.”\nDo you have an experience of homelessness to share with the Guardian? Get in touch\nSign up to Chronicling Homelessness, our monthly Outside in America newsletter}}
{{Gov. Greg Abbott is asking Texans in Congress to take bipartisan action to address the crisis of thousands of immigrant children being separated from their parents.\n"This disgraceful condition must end; and it can only end with action by Congress to reform the broken immigration system," he wrote in a letter to all members of the Texas delegation, including Republican Sens. Ted Cruz and John Cornyn.\nMORE BORDER COVERAGE\nAbbott called family separations, which are the result of a Trump administration policy announced earlier this year, “tragic and heartrending.” But he also called the separations the “latest calamity children suffer because of a broken U.S. border” — and urged members to “seize” the opportunity to work across the aisle and finally fix the problem.\nPHOTOS: Immigrant families detained at Texas border\nPHOTOS: Border Patrol Agents detain families near US-Mexico border A two-year-old Honduran stands with her mother after being detained by U.S. Border Patrol agents near the U.S.-Mexico border on June 12, 2018 in McAllen, Texas. (Photo by John Moore/Getty Images) 01 / 14 A two-year-old Honduran stands with her mother after being detained by U.S. Border Patrol agents near the U.S.-Mexico border on June 12, 2018 in McAllen, Texas. (Photo by John Moore/Getty Images) 01 / 14\n“Texans are not fooled by the partisan divide on this issue,” Abbott wrote in the letter, which was obtained by The Texas Tribune. “They know that even if all Republicans agree, a bill fixing the problem will not pass without Democrat support in the Senate.”\nRELATED COVERAGE:\nBabies, toddlers held in 'tender age shelters'\nHomeland security drafts plan to end family separation at border\nWhy are immigrant children separated from parents? All of your questions answered here\nVERIFY: Families separated at border during Obama administration?\n"Texans, and Americans, need our delegation, both Republicans and Democrats, to lead Congress in ending the rhetoric and ensuring results," Abbott added. "Time spent talking to microphones is time lost talking to members about solutions. You sought your office to do big things. This is your moment. Seize it."\nPHOTOS: Feds release photos of McAllen detention facility\nPhotos: U.S. Customs and Border Protection release photos of McAllen facility The U.S. Border Patrol on Sunday allowed reporters to briefly visit the facility where it holds families arrested at the southern U.S. border. (Photos provided by U.S. Border Patrol) 01 / 05 The U.S. Border Patrol on Sunday allowed reporters to briefly visit the facility where it holds families arrested at the southern U.S. border. (Photos provided by U.S. Border Patrol) 01 / 05\nThe letter comes a few days after Abbott’s initial comments on the family separation crisis. In an interview that aired Sunday on Dallas TV, Abbott called the separations “horrible” and said they “rip everybody’s heart apart.” Also, Abbott echoed Trump’s criticism of Democrats for not coming to the negotiable table to deal with the separations, even though Trump has the power to end it himself.\nSince that interview, Abbott has gotten pressure from Democrats to speak out against the policy. Among them has been Lupe Valdez, Abbott’s Democratic opponent, who issued a statement Tuesday accusing the governor of having “silently condoned this inhumanity.”\n"A humanitarian crisis is developing in our state," the former Dallas County sheriff said, "and our Governor refuses to act."\nThis story is from our partners at Texas Tribune.\n© Texas Tribune}}
{{IRISH music fans will no doubt be happy to learn that Fleadh Week — a new celebration of the Emerald Isle’s greatest bands — will be taking place in London in October.\nThe week-long live music event will be held at Nell’s Jazz & Blues, a live music bar and club in West Kensington.\nFor eight consecutive days, a host of both well-known and budding Irish talents will take to the stage, some of whom will be performing in Britain for the very first time.\nActs include The Saw Doctors, Aslan, The Coronas, Mary Coughlan, Paul Brady, Cry before Dawn, The 4 of Us, Brian Deady and a host of up-and-coming groups.\nFleadh Week runs from October 17-24. Saturday 22 and Sunday 23 will be a multi line-up all day starting from 2pm till midnight.\nThe music festival is being organised by music promoter and festival owner Vince Power, who has teamed up with The Irish Post who is the event’s media partner.\n“This will be eight days of the best of Irish bands,” the Co. Waterford man said.\n“We are delighted to be sponsoring Fleadh Week at Nell’s,” added Irish Post Commercial Manager Sarah Murphy.\n“Vince Power continues his strong tradition of bringing the best Irish acts to the Irish community here in London.\n“It is sure to be an action-packed week for all involved and The Irish Post — as the voice of the Irish community here in Britain — is proud to be able to support it.”}}
{{The United Nations, short of funds to support millions of displaced people in the Middle East, has begun a scheme that would let Muslims make donations from the alms they typically pay state bodies for the benefit of the poor.\nThe UN High Commission for Refugees said it had obtained religious rulings from top Muslim clerics in Egypt, Morocco and Yemen as well as a senior Islamic scholar in Saudi Arabia, that it hoped would persuade wealthy Muslims to donate their alms directly for relief work.\n“It is an innovation in our efforts to raise funding,” said Muhammed Abu Asaker, a UNHCR Middle East spokesman.\nThe UNHCR posted the rulings on its webpage that appeals for zakat contributions to aid programmes.\nThe amount of zakat money distributed each year in Muslim countries ranges from $20 billion to $30 billion, experts say.\nThe United Nations has projected it will need a total of $8 billion this year to provide life-saving assistance to millions of Syrians inside their shattered homeland and to refugees and their host communities in neighbouring countries.\nUNHCR has also called for $2.1 billion to provide food, and medicine for Yemen, where 12 million people are at risk of famine and cholera brought on by two years of civil war.\nMillions of Syrians, Iraqis and Yemenis have been displaced by years of civil war, sometimes to neighbouring countries, straining the hosts’ resources as well as United Nations and other non-governmental humanitarian agencies.\nUNHCR said it will use some of the additional funds it expects from the alms project to help some 30,000 of the most vulnerable Syrian refugee families in Jordan, with around $180 in monthly cash support for each family.\n“The needs of these people increase daily and because the crises are ongoing, for example, the Syrian crisis is entering its 7th year,” Abu Asaker said.\n“So anything these people had is not completely gone and they need continuous support. So this requires us as an organisation to search for creative ways that go in parallel with governmental support, which has become insufficient given the rising number in refugees and IDPs (internally displaced people).”\nOriginal Article}}
{{The coolest music video we’ve ever seen is also a feat of computer programming.\nThe video crowdsources the cursor path of every viewer who watches it. As it plays, there are instructions for your mouse movements across the screen, which are recorded and then played back in later versions of the video.\nAlong the way, viewers are instructed to “Play The Bass,” “Make A Mask,” and, simply, “Smiley.”\nThe video can be found at donottouch.org. The band responsible for this awesomeness is Light Light from the Netherlands. The tech work was done by Amsterdam-based design studio Moniker.\nMoniker announced that this video celebrates “the nearing end of the computer cursor,” offering a space “where all our cursors can be seen together for one last time.”\nRemaining loyal to the cursor, the video has no interactive feature on mobile devices. Mobile users are asked to “please use a mouse.”\nWatch the video now and let your cursor be the star >\nBusiness Insider Emails & Alerts Site highlights each day to your inbox. Email Address Join\nFollow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram.}}
{{A GUN enthusiast sent terrifying messages to a woman he met on a dating site – telling her he could see her through a rifle scope from miles away and was going to turn up at a school where he thought she worked.\nKevin McLean, from Lochgelly, began chatting to Karen Traill via Match.com with the pair later exchanging numbers and conversing through WhatsApp.\nBell Baxter High School.\nBut he later left Miss Traill so terrified she went to police after telling her he was equipped with 10 guns and two bulletproof vests and could watch her from “miles away”.\nMcLean then added that he “loved shooting targets” and threatened to turn up at Bell Baxter High School, where she used to work – leaving her “scared” for the safety of her and pupils at the school.\nMcLean’s lawyer said: “He accepts this is a serious matter – especially given the numerous school shootings that seem to occur on a regular basis in the US.”\nFiscal depute Laura Bruce told Dundee Sheriff Court: “At 9.45am on February 27, Miss Traill was scared for the safety of herself and others so went to Cupar police station.\n“He had warned he would attend Bell Baxter High School in the belief she worked there – she does not in fact work there.\n“Police went to his address and he was taken to Dunfermline police station.\n“During the interview there he confirmed he had sent the messages.\n“He said he ‘didn’t mean any harm’ but agreed the tone of the messages would suggest a threat, but said he would never dream of doing anything such as shooting people.”\nMcLean (37) of Auchterderran Road, Lochgelly, pleaded guilty on summary complaint to a charge under the Communications Act committed on February 26 and 27 this year at addresses in Dunfermline, Dundee and at his home.\nDefence solicitor Paul Parker Smith said: “He did have a number of air rifles but following upon this they were seized by police and crushed and his air weapon licence has been revoked.”\nSheriff Alastair Carmichael placed McLean on a community payback order with supervision for 15 months with 180 hours of unpaid work.}}
{{Close Get email notifications on {{subject}} daily!\nYour notification has been saved.\nThere was a problem saving your notification.\n{{description}}\nEmail notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.}}
{{This is a Christmas message with a difference. I make no apologies for the colourful nature of the story and I assure you it is absolutely 100% true.\nWhen I was delivering the Liberal Democrat Christmas cards the other day I noticed on the pavement the largest pile of dog’s business I had seen in some time. “What a calamity,” I thought “That’s a big problem for whoever steps in it.” I was heartened, therefore, to see a man approaching the mess with a purposeful stride.\nI could see he was going to solve the problem for the good of other people in his road, probably by picking it up and finding a bin. That was until I noticed he was carrying a large bucket of hot water. He then proceeded to pour it over the offending deposit. Naturally, rather than solving anything, this merely compounded the problem by spreading it around. I was carrying out my final campaigning act of 2017 and my political brain was therefore weary, but when reflecting on the scene I had witnessed later on that day I concluded it was the most appropriate metaphor for the political year: a fundamental problem was correctly identified by a public-spirited individual, but the chosen solution was ill-judged and left everyone else with a steaming mess to clear up. It’s not all bad news, though. In the spirit of good will to all, I’ve passed the person’s address to Theresa May with a suggestion he is promoted to Brexit Secretary. With problem-solving skills like those, he’ll fit right in.\nBut, on a more serious note, Christmas is a time to look forward and as liberals we are generally positive people who take the view that tomorrow will be better than yesterday. We mustn’t allow ourselves to accept that the future has been written: it is ours to write for ourselves. We know we are on the right side of the big debates facing our country in 2018, from schools and the NHS to policing and housing. That’s not to mention the challenges of protecting our environment, continuing to make the case for a humane refugee policy and dealing with the crisis of homelessness which is apparently all too obvious to everybody but the government. Aside from all this, Brexit will of course continue to consume our politics. As liberals, we must work hard to make the positive case for why our country needs Liberal Democrats more than ever.\nSo let’s take time to enjoy Christmas with our friends and families (hopefully free of politics for a few days) and return with renewed vigour in our fight for liberalism in the New Year. There is a big steaming mess to clear up.\nWith best Christmas wishes,}}
{{Jennifer Lawrence showed her love for Kris Jenner this Christmas with a Porsche! Check out what the new ride looks like here!\nJennifer Lawrence, 27, made Kris Jenner, 62, a very happy lady when she sent her the exact Christmas gift she asked for: a new Porsche! This wasn’t just any Porsche though, it was an incredible looking toy one! Kris showed off the adorable model with a big red bow on top in a post on her Instagram. “My BFF #Jenniferlawrence asked me what I wanted for Christmas and of course I said a Porsche, DUH. My girl didn’t disappoint. Thank you Jen I love you!!!! #bffsforever #christmassurprise #jlaw #soexcited,” Kris captioned the post. The funny gift definitely proves Jen and Kris have a fun and playful friendship that is taking the spotlight this holiday season! Check out pics from the 2017 Kardashian/Jenner Christmas card here!\nIn addition to Jen’s sweet gesture, Kris has had a lot to celebrate this year. She’s been releasing amazing photos of her family from their annual Christmas card photo shoot, which is a huge reminder that family is most important at this time of year. Kris is also set to welcome three new grandchildren in the upcoming months with Kim Kardashian, 37, expecting her third child via surrogate and Khloe Kardashian, 33, and Kylie Jenner, 20, expecting their first child. Khloe took to Instagram this week to officially confirm the happy news but we’re still waiting on Kylie!\nIf none of that excitement was enough, Kris also recently bought a $9.9 million mansion in a suburb of Los Angeles! The home is super impressive with tons of crazy cool features like a 10-person spa! It’s good to know she’ll have a great place to spend the holidays and enough room to let all her grandchildren run around!\nHollywoodLifers, what do you think about the Porsche that Jennifer got Kris for Christmas? Tell us here!}}
{{Written by Dinah Maria Mulock\nGod rest ye, merry gentlemen; let nothing you dismay,\nFor Jesus Christ, our Saviour, was born on Christmas-day.\nThe dawn rose red o’er Bethlehem, the stars shone through the gray,\nWhen Jesus Christ, our Saviour, was born on Christmas-day.\nGod rest ye, little children; let nothing you affright,\nFor Jesus Christ, your Saviour, was born this happy night:\nAlong the hills of Galilee the white flocks sleeping lay,\nWhen Christ, the Child of Nazareth, was born on Christmas-day.\nGod rest ye, all good Christians; upon this blessed morn\nThe Lord of all good Christians was of a woman born:\nNow all your sorrows He doth heal, your sins He takes away;\nFor Jesus Christ, our Saviour, was born on Christmas-day.\nSections\nTopics}}
{{Ryde School is the leading independent day and boarding school on the Isle of Wight for children aged two and a half to 18 years old.\nIt’s an Island school with a global vision and the ambition that their pupils will learn the resilience, values and skills that will sustain them wherever they find themselves in the future.\nAll welcome at Open Morning\nIf you’re considering education options for your child or children, you’ll be very welcome at the Ryde School Open Morning on Saturday 5th October from 10am until 12.30pm.\nIt’s a great opportunity to meet teachers, pupils, tour the school and hear about their excellent GCSE results (with 19 per cent of all grades at 9 or 8 – the equivalent to the old A* – and 86 per cent at the new pass rate of 9 to 4), A level and IB results (25% of A Levels being graded A* or A).\nA complimentary family lunch is even provided (just register beforehand – see below for contact details).\nAn Island school with a global outlook\nThe school welcomes not only a diverse community from across the Island – from West Wight to Ventnor – but also many pupils who travel the short distance across the Solent from Portsmouth and surrounding areas (there is a daily ‘Hover Nanny’ service from Southsea).\nThere is also a growing number of international students and UK boarders from Scotland through to France, Russia and beyond.\nA vibrant and supportive community\nRyde School pupils learn the resilience, values and skills that will sustain them wherever they find themselves in the future.\nWith a full range of abilities, needs and talents pupils join together in the ambitious, vibrant and supportive community.\nThe school offers full, flexi and weekly boarding options and there is an exciting extra-curricular programme, including competitive sailing.\nScholarships and Bursaries are available for entry into Years 7, 9 and Sixth Form.\nWhere and when\nThe Ryde School Open Morning takes place on Saturday 5th October from 10am until 12.30pm.\nAll are welcome.\nPlease contact the Admissions Registrar on (01983) 617 970 or email admissions@rydeschool.net if you would like further details or to arrange an Open Day visit.\nAlternatively see the Ryde School Website for further details.\nRyde School can be found at Queen’s Road, Ryde, Isle of Wight P033 3BE\nOur thanks to Ryde School for sponsoring for this feature. They and other businesses and organisations taking paid promotion enables you to continue reading OnTheWight for free.}}
{{Please enable Javascript to watch this video\nST. LOUIS COUNTY, MO – “It’s the rush,” shopper Jessica Chambers said. “It’s the excitement of getting the last-minute deals.”\nHow many days are there until Christmas? It doesn’t matter to sisters Jessica Chambers and Marquitta Hopkins as they brave the crowds for some last-minute shopping\n“Crowds don’t bother me,” shopper Marquitta Hopkins said. “I’ll stand in line two hours for a deal.”\nSurprisingly, they’re not the only ones.\nJC Penny in West County Mall is full of shoppers grabbing that last trinket for the special someone on their list.\n“I just been so busy this year with so many other things, projects and what not that my last couple days here I decided to get out,” shopper Chris Sabatino said.\nAccording to the International Council of Shopping Centers, 76% of adult shoppers say they plan to continue shopping up until Christmas.\nHowever, it may not be wise to count out young shoppers as well.\n“I don’t know,” a young shopper said. “I just didn’t think about it and I just needed some presents for my friends so I came to the mall.”\nAs the countdown draws to the end, some shoppers are on the fence if they’ll have to go into stores one more time.\n“I don’t plan on being out here tomorrow, but if it’s to be with her then I’ll be out here tomorrow,” Chambers said. “Spending the last of my paycheck, you know!”\nJC Penny in West County Mall will be open until midnight tonight for those shoppers who still need that one last item.}}
{{A group of CrossFit athletes from Anchorage, Alaska pose for Evan. Gyms across the nation prayed in solidarity with Evan and his family. CrossFit Alaska}}
{{3 Kansas brothers carry on high school basketball legacy\nHAYSVILLE, Kan. (AP) — Three brothers are carrying on their family's legacy in a basketball program at a Wichita high school.\nCade, Zach and Andrew Howard are all members of the Campus High School basketball program, the Wichita Eagle reported. Cade Howard is a three-year starter who helped bring the team to a 3-0 start for the first time in more than a decade.\nZach Howard is a sophomore who's on the high-functioning end of the autism spectrum. He's not in the program as a feel-good story or to serve as a manager. Zach helped add four points to the team's win in a recent game.\nAndrew Howard is a freshman on the team, climbing his way through the ranks.\nThe brothers follow in the footsteps of their grandfather and their older brother Chase, who both went on to play in college.\nCade Howard said it bothers him when people speak negatively about autism.\n"People have their stigmas, and it's not right," he said. "He's just like anybody else on the team. He competes. He goes out there and plays at his hardest."\nZach Howard said he doesn't see his condition as setback.\n"I've always wanted to play under the lights," he said. "I've watched my brothers play for years now, so it's really awesome to be able to practice and play every day in this gym."\nCampus High School basketball coach Chris Davis said the Howard family name has been associated with success at the school for years, thanks to Cade and their older brother Chase.\nCade called their family's basketball legacy at Campus High School meaningful.\n"All three of us have never played before on the same team until now, so it's really special," Zach said.\n___\nInformation from: The Wichita (Kan.) Eagle, http://www.kansas.com}}
{{Send this to a friend\nHi! A visitor to our site felt the following article might be of interest to you: Graham High School Class of 2018. Here is a link to that story: http://www.urbanacitizen.com/special-sections/62753/graham-high-school-class-2018}}
{{Rome, June 20 - Premier Giuseppe Conte told European Council President Donald Tusk on Wednesday that it was "unthinkable" for Italy to also have to take migrants that have made secondary movements, given that it is widely recognised as being the country most exposed to migrant flows. Conte and Tusk had talks for around two hours at the premier's office in Rome. Secondary movement regards moves from the country in which a migrant first arrived. According to the Dublin Regulation, if an asylum seeker whose request has not been completed leaves the first country they arrived in and go to another EU member State, the latter can relocate them back in the country where they landed. During the talks, Conte said Italy was unwilling to accept the "second reception" of asylum seekers in this way, sources said. This will be the position Italy expounds at Sunday's informal meeting of the leaders of eight EU countries, including Germany and France, ahead of next week's European Council summit, the sources said. "Today I had very useful meeting with President Tusk," Conte said via Twitter. "I told him in advance that I am not willing to discuss secondary movements at the Brussels pre-summit without first having addressed the emergency of the primary movements that Italy is tackling alone".}}
{{Johannesburg - Instead of just a red and green Christmas, for 134 lucky Gauteng and Western Cape families, there was also some pink and blue.\nA total of 138 babies, including a set of twins, were born under the Christmas star at hospitals in various part of the country on Christmas Day.\nIn Gauteng, there were 114 babies - 49 girls and 65 boys, including a set of twins.\nDouble sets of booties and blankets will also be needed in Bishop Lavis and Macassar in Cape Town after a set of baby boys and then girls were born in each are respectively.\nIn the Western Cape, overall, 24 babies had a festive introduction to the world - an even dozen of girls and boys. Nineteen city babies were born in Cape Town, while five were born in rural areas.\n“There can be nothing as fulfilling as bringing a new life on this earth; we wish them a long and healthy life,” said Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu about her province’s portion of the country’s youngest ‘born frees’.\nThe Western Cape Health department congratulated all the new arrivals as well.\nChris Hani Baragwanath hospital, where 25 babies were delivered, was the most popular Johannesburg venue for these Christmas celebrities to make their appearance.\nIn the mother city, Mowbray Maternity Hospital made eight new mums beam with joy when their darlings were dropped off by the South African stork.\nMowbray was also the location where a different kind of midnight mass arrived, when the first Christmas baby, a little girl, was born three minutes after midnight.\nIn Gauteng, 11 babies were born in Tembisa Tertiary hospital, while Kalafong Tertiary Hospital welcoming three girls and eight boys.\nA variety of other hospitals played a special kind of Santa Claus to expectant families.\nOn Christmas day, Mahlangu also took the opportunity to thank all healthcare staff who were working over the festive season.\n“I really appreciate [their] efforts…While others are home resting, they are hard at work.”}}
{{Black Middle School student punched and called a racial slur\nDiannah Watson, BlackAmericaWeb.com\nA sixth grader at Ridley Middle School in Pennsylvania was punched by a student and then called a malicious racial slur.\nAccording to the mother, Liante Robinson, the school has given her little details into how the situation is being handled.\nOn Friday Sept. 22, 2017, Robinson’s son Nivre, a brand new student at his school, was walking down a hallway to class when he got into an argument with a White student.\nRobinson says that the White student punched her son, scratching his eye. “As they were going inside the classroom, the student then said to my son. ‘That’s why you are a n—–.’ Said that to my son,” she told Fox WTXF news.\nIn a school report, Nirve described the incident to school officials. The next day Nirve got into another incident with a different student. He wrote a-bout that student asking where he was born and he told him to go away.\nRobinson says, “the young man then goes and sits at another table and speaks to another student and says, ‘You know I could kill him, right?’”\nAfter that Robinson spent the next couple of days contacting school officials through calls and emails to find out what was going to be done about the incident.\nThe school’s Dean of Students got back to her saying that the boy had been punished. “He just kept saying to that it’s a 3-day suspension for physical contact. That’s it. If he would not have physically assaulted my child, he would not have been suspended,” explained Robinson.\nRobinson says that there was no indication that the student would be punished for the racial slur.\nNirve didn’t go to school as he was shaken by the events. He’s expressed wanting to go back to the school, but his mother feels differently.\n“You are not insuring me that you can keep my son safe. You’re not giving me answers. You’re not doing anything,” she says of the school’s duty.\nAlthough not threatening a lawsuit, Robinson’s attorney is keeping a close eye on the situation.\nThe Ridley School District released a statement saying that they don’t comment on students specifically but with an incident like this one the student attacker would be suspended with a mandatory parent re-entry conference and counseling for the attacker and the victim.}}
{{The types of cookies we, our ad network and technology partners use are listed below:\nRevenue Science ► A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past. To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.\nGoogle Ads ► Our sites contain advertising from Google; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you. You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the 'Your Online Choices' website by clicking here.\nDigital Analytics ► This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites. This data is anonymous and we cannot use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites.\nDart for Publishers ► This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites, so that you don't just see one advert but an even spread. This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring.\nComScore ► ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry. Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and cannot be traced back to an individual.\nLocal Targeting ► Our Classified websites (Photos, Motors, Jobs and Property Today) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them. These cookies store no personally identifiable information.\nGrapeshot ► We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology, allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation. Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to. Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here.\nSubscriptions Online ► Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience.\nAdd This ► Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages. This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites, blog, share, tweet and email our content to a friend.}}
{{Twelve years ago, Mel Verhaeghe placed a sign near a fence line along North 400 Road just north of Baldwin City at the urging of his daughter.\nThe sign states it is in memory of the “many Chinese workers” who died of diseases and extreme winter conditions in late 1867 while working to construct a railroad line from Lawrence south to Ottawa. Verhaeghe said his former neighbors, the late Naomi and Arley Lederer, told him the Chinese laborers were buried in the long parallel mounds just north of the sign. He put up the sign after sharing the story with his daughter, Libby.\n“She was in high school,” he said. “She said, ‘Those people died there. They should be remembered.’”\nThe sad fate of the Chinese workers has become part of Baldwin City lore. Roger Boyd, president of the Douglas County chapter of the Santa Fe Historical Society, said a previous owner of the property, the late former State Sen. Richard Allen, told him and his father, Ivan Boyd, the same story of Chinese workers buried in the pasture. The pasture used to abut the Leavenworth, Lawrence & Fort Gibson Railroad (later the Leavenworth, Lawrence & Galveston Railroad, and abbreviated as LL&G;) as the tracks looped west around the steep Baldwin Hill on its way to Baldwin City. The tracks were removed after the Santa Fe Railroad closed what was the old LL&G; line in the mid-1970s.\nBoyd no longer believes the story and shares the opinion of a number of researchers who have concluded the grim tale is a local myth. The re-examination of the story started with Craig Voorhees, whose interest in the story was sparked when he saw Verhaeghe’s sign while searching for “swales,” or visible ruts heavy wagons left on the nearby Santa Fe Trail.\nAs he researched the sign’s story, Voorhees would enlist the help of Deborah Barker, executive director of the Old Depot Museum in Ottawa, and the team of Dennis Domer, a former associate dean of the KU school of architecture and later an associate professor of American studies, and Lawrence researcher David Evans. Among other places, Domer and Evans looked for sources at the Watkins Museum of History, where they worked with Monica Davis, Watkins resource assistant.\nAll the researchers failed to find a single contemporary reference to Chinese workers on the LL&G; 150 years ago, much less evidence of their mass deaths.\nIn an exhibit earlier this year at the Old Depot Museum, the Chinese laborer story was cited as an example of a mythical story that became an accepted part of local history, Barker said. There is simply no mention in newspapers or other written sources from 1867 of Chinese workmen helping to build the line between Lawrence and Ottawa, she said.\n“I would be delighted to believe it,” Barker said. “It’s a great story, but there’s just nothing to support it. There’s no primary source I’ve ever seen to back up that story, and I did some pretty deep digging for the exhibit.”\nThat’s also true of the bushel-basket full of press clippings Domer has collected on the building of the LL&G; in 1867.\n“It’s fake news,” he said. “We had fake news for years before the 2016 presidential election.”\nRace to Ottawa\nThere were so many press accounts because Lawrence and regional newspapers of the day extensively covered the LL&G;’s construction, Barker and Domer said. The fictional Chinese laborer story detracts from the compelling story reporters documented of the race to complete the LL&G; in 1867, they said.\nLate in 1867, the railroad’s construction became a race to complete tracks to Ottawa so a locomotive pulling two cars could arrive in that town by Dec. 31. If the LL&G; failed to meet that deadline, it would not qualify for $100,000 in bonds Douglas County voters approved for the railroad, Voorhees said. The locomotive did make it on the last day of the year, overcoming the delayed arrival of iron rails for the tracks and the need to build a temporary low-water bridge over the Kansas River in Lawrence to transport construction materials.\nThe reporters making regular excursions to work sites certainly would have mentioned Chinese workers and any outbreak of infectious diseases that would have been a threat to the wider population, Voorhees said. There was a good reason no record of Chinese laborers can be found in the stories reporters filed about the 1867 work on the LL&G;, Voorhees said. Most Chinese laborers in the U.S. at that time were busy constructing the Central Pacific Railroad in the mountains west of Sacramento, Calif., he said.\n“The timeline is off,” he said. “In 1867, they were blasting tunnels through the Sierra Nevada Mountains for the transcontinental railroad.They would not have sent a lot of Chinese laborers to a relatively minor project like this.”\nDomer and Voorhees believe J.P. Mickey, of Ottawa, invented the Chinese laborer story. A freelance photographer and writer, J.P. Mickey wrote a 1963 article for the Kansas City Star on the race to complete the LL&G; to Ottawa in late 1867. Without providing any source, the story claimed “an unknown number of Chinese” and white workers were buried along the LL&G; right of way after dying from frigid winter conditions and “malaria, typhoid, smallpox and accidents,” Voorhees said.\nThirteen years after the story ran in the Star, an article on the LL&G;’s construction appeared in Baldwin City Ledger with the tragic account of Chinese laborers, Voorhees said. That story was written by Loren Litteer, who repeated it in a number of pamphlets he authored on Baldwin City history, he said.\nLitteer, in an interview with the Journal-World last week, said although he believes Chinese laborers were buried along the LL&G;, he can't say for sure whether any were buried along North 400 Road specifically. The Chinese laborers he wrote about in his pamphlets were buried further south, he said, near the Douglas/Franklin county line. He said he didn’t remember his sources for the story of the workers.\n“I wrote those (pamphlets) 25 years ago,” he said.\nExplaining the mounds\nVoorhees has an alternate theory about the mounds, too, which explains their presence near the former railroad. It was a theory he developed after visiting the site with Rex Buchanan, director emeritus of the Kansas Geological Survey. The mounds are “disturbed ground,” which is a catch-all phrase for human activity, Buchanan said.\n“They are not consistent with what you would expect from a burial site,” he said.\nThe mounds are the ridges that remained after a horse-powered excavator was used to remove topsoil for use on the LL&G;, Voorhees said.\nVerhaeghe — the man with the sign — has talked to Voorhees, but remains more impressed with the story the Lederers recounted. He believes Naomi Lederer was passing on a story she first heard from her parents and grandparents, who lived on property adjacent to the mounds.\nWith the LL&G; desperate for workers, it could have recruited some Chinese laborers in late 1867 when work stopped in the Sierra Nevada Mountains for the winter, Verhaeghe said.\nHe could resolve the question with a shovel, but that’s not something he wants to do, Verhaeghe said.\n“I like the story,” he said. “I don’t want to be disappointed. Everybody loves a mystery.”\nCopyright 2017 The Lawrence Journal-World. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. We strive to uphold our values for every story published.}}
{{It was a “false alarm” gaining much press today after the bomb squad was called to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin’s neighborhood for a suspicious looking box left addressed to him in his neighbor’s driveway. While the box was not found on Mnuchin’s property, it was addressed to the treasury secretary. The package was thought to have possibly been a bomb.\nIt was Mnuchin’s neighbors who called to report this suspicious looking gift-wrapped box addressed to the treasury secretary near his California home. As ABC News reports, “Fears of a bomb outside Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin’s Los Angeles home turned out to be a waste — literally.”\nThe area around Mnuchin’s Bel Air home was teaming with law enforcement, including members of the bomb squad all decked out in protective garb. That call came in at 7:30 p.m. and the area was cleared and deemed all safe by 9:30 p.m., just two hours later. No one was evacuated from their homes due to this package.\nThe package, although all decked out for season’s tidings contained nothing but horse manure, or as some reports are describing it “horse poop.” While the box looked festive, it certainly didn’t carry the joyous smells of the season like a Christmas tree, a Christmas cookie or a yuletide log slowly burning on the fire. The package, which was addressed to Mnuchin, also indicated it was from “The American People.”\nPolice were called to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin's Bel Air neighborhood Saturday night after one of his neighbors discovered a package addressed to him. It was gift-wrapped manure: https://t.co/tHZRwWbhXW pic.twitter.com/liWqOKvDcl — WSBT (@WSBT) December 24, 2017\nAccording to Fox News, law enforcement revealed that the package not only contained horse manure but inside a Christmas card was discovered. That card “made negative references to Mnuchin, President Donald Trump, and the $1.5 trillion tax bill that Trump signed into law Friday.”\nAerial footage from @NBCLA's NewsChopper 4 shows officers investigating a large box wrapped in wrapping paper; it's not clear what is inside the box addressed to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. https://t.co/w0QsUKuIHI pic.twitter.com/2j0VmdtHFG — Whitney Ashton (@whit_ashton) December 24, 2017\nIt is not known if Mnuchin and his wife were at home at the time. The former Wall Street hedge fund manager is married to actress Louise Linton. The couple has a few homes around the country. Along with the Bel Air home that was the scene of a bomb scare, earlier this year Mnuchin purchased a $12.6 million Washington, D.C., home. He also owns a home in the Hamptons and a Manhattan apartment.\nIn February Mnuchin was sworn in as the 77th secretary of the U.S. Treasury after he was appointed by Donald Trump and confirmed by the U.S. Senate.}}
{{Rivers State Government has commissioned and handed over reconstructed basic schools in Ahoada West , Port Harcourt and Asari-Toru Local Government Areas to their respective benefiting communities.\nPerforming the commissioning and handing over ceremonies on behalf of the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike on Friday, Executive Chairman of the Rivers State Universal Basic Education Board, Venerable Fyneface Akah said that the contracts were delivered on schedule and in line with specifications.\nThe three basic schools commissioned and handed over are: Government Girls Secondary School, Ahoada West Local Government Area , Community Secondary School Abuloma, Port Harcourt City Local Government Area and State School ILeLema in Asari-Toru Local Government Area.\nThe representative of the Rivers State Governor said that the reconstruction and renovation of 175 basic schools flagged off by Governor Wike have reached 90 percent completion stage across the state.\nHe noted that the remaining 10 percent of schools are those where work started behind schedule, pointing out that most of them will be delivered in two weeks.\nHe said: “We are glad to report that they have been up and about their job. They have kept to specifications and adhered to the time-table . As children return to school, they will not be locked out.\n“I am very happy that the children are very pleased. They have found a better environment and properly furnished classrooms”.\nThe Representative of Governor Wike stated that across the state, parents are happy that the governor remembered schools in rural areas.\n“We are harnessing resources that we have in Rivers State, applying them as a strategy for empowerment. RSG is committed to encouraging indigenous companies that we have in the state, rather than go to Dubai or China to import furniture. They are employing indigenes of Rivers State and they are empowering the people,” he said.\nThe commissioning and handing over ceremonies were greeted with celebration as community leaders and teachers hailed Governor Wike for his commitment to education.\nCommunity Secretary of IleLema in Asari-Toru , Mr Marshal Horsfall said the reconstruction of State School in IleLema shows that the area has been recognised by the Rivers State Government.\nMrs Ayuogbokor Aina David, Principal of the Government Girls Secondary School, Ahoada said that the staff and students will forever cherish the reconstructed and furnished school .\nMrs Samuel Awoba of Community Secondary School, Abuluoma and Chief Chinemere Like, Chairman, Ahoada Council of Chiefs commended the governor for including their respective communities in the reconstruction of schools.\nIt will be recalled that Governor Wike flagged off the reconstruction of 175 basic schools in Port Harcourt on July 20, 2017.\nDuring the flag off, he said: ”\n“The funds for the reconstruction and furnishing of these schools have been set aside. Therefore, funding will not be an issue. I direct that payment should be done by milestone. The contractors should be paid based on the work they do. There should be nothing like variation”\nSimeon Nwakaudu,\nSpecial Assistant to the Rivers State Governor, Electronic Media.\n29th September, 2017.}}
{{GETTY Sandringham House in Norfolk will host Meghan Markle's first royal festivities\nAll eyes will be on 36-year-old Meghan Markle tomorrow as she swaps the world of showbusiness for Sandringham for the first of many Royal Family ­Christmases. Prince Harry’s fiancee is expected to accompany the Queen and her future in-laws to church on the royal estate in Norfolk before sitting down to a traditional lunch of turkey and all the trimmings, including Brussels sprouts served on silver salvers. But the LA-born actress will face her first real test as a future royal bride tonight when the Windsors gather for their annual ­Christmas Eve festivities, which follow the German tradition of opening their presents then. The royals usually exchange jokey gifts worth as little as a few pounds.\nOne Christmas Harry, 33, presented the Queen with a shower cap emblazoned with the words Ain’t Life A Bitch, while Prince Charles was so delighted with a white leather toilet seat from Princess Anne that he now takes it on overseas tours. With Prince Philip running the show, the gifts have to be laid out on a red trestle table in the drawing room, before everyone opens their gifts in front of each other at about teatime. Hopefully someone will have told Meghan not to splash out. Princess Diana was embarrassed at her first Royal Family Christmas after buying everyone expensive cashmere jumpers and mohair scarves. Royals arrive at Sandringham in order of seniority, with Prince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall turning up last, shortly behind the Duke and ­Duchess of Cambridge.\nGETTY It is thought Harry and Meghan are staying with the Cambridges at their country bolthole Anmer Hall\nIt is thought Harry and Meghan are staying with the Cambridges at their country bolthole Anmer Hall, which is just a few miles from the “big house” on the 20,000-acre royal estate. After dressing in their finery for a sit-down banquet with men in black tie and the ladies in long evening gowns and tiaras, they dine on Norfolk shrimps, lamb or game shot on the estate and a pudding of souffle or tarte tartin. White wine is served with the starter, claret with the main course, and champagne with the pudding. The royals play Charades until midnight.\nGETTY One Christmas, Prince Harry has presented the Queen with a shower cap\nThe Greatest Royal Moments from 2017 Fri, December 22, 2017 A special recap of the year's best royal moments in photographs Play slideshow AFP/Getty Images 1 of 26 Kate Middleton dances with Paddington Bear at Paddington train station in London}}
{{Governor of Ebonyi State, Chief Dave Umahi, yesterday suspended the headmaster of Community Primary School, Amauzu in Ishielu Local Government Area of the state, Mr. Augustine Eze, and seven other teachers of the school for absenteeism. Umahi paid unscheduled visit to the school without meeting the school head and the seven teachers affected by the suspension.\nThe governor, who was visibly angry, had ordered their immediate suspension while also directing the suspended teachers to report to the Chairman of council, Henry Eze, who will then take them to the Chairman of the Universal Basic Education (UBEB) for more disciplinary actions.\nHe expressed dismay over the nonchalant and negligent attitudes of some civil servants in the state and warned that the state government would no longer tolerate workers who do not show devotion to their duties.\n“It is very unfortunate the way and manner some of our civil servants do their jobs without passion. We have defined the contours and perimeters of our call for change in our attitude and perception to what we refer to government property, it is absurd that pupils will be in the school and the school headmaster and teachers will brazenly absent themselves from their duties.\n“We shall not take this anymore, and the headmaster and the absentee teachers are hereby suspended and are directed to report to the Chairman of the local government area who then will take them to the UBEB and they must be transferred after serving their suspension,” Umahi said.\nLike this: Like Loading...}}
{{President Donald Trump said Wednesday that he would sign a “preemptive” effort to keep illegal immigrant families together, previewing executive action on the issue.\n“We have compassion, we want to keep families together. It’s very important,” Trump said. “I’ll be signing something in a little while that’s going to do that and the people in this room want to do that and they’re working on various pieces of legislation to get it done.”\nTrump spoke about his plans during a White House meeting with Republican members of Congress about trade and immigration enforcement. His tone was markedly different from comments he made on Tuesday defending his administration’s commitment to enforcing the law.\n“We have to be very strong on the border but at the same time we want to be very compassionate,” he said.\nThe president admitted that his executive action might not hold up in the courts, but cited former President Barack Obama’s DACA executive amnesty as an inspiration.\n“When he signed it, he said I’m really not allowed to sign it, I’m going to sign it anyway,” he said commenting that several judges actually held up the legality of Obama’s executive action.\nEstablishment Republicans grew increasingly nervous about the dramatic media coverage of the zero tolerance border enforcement policies, signaled growing concern during the meeting.\nTrump said he wanted more legal immigrants coming into the United States based on merit.\n“We’re going to need those people because we have so many companies coming to the country,” he said.\nTrump reminded the members that many smugglers were traveling with unrelated children to make it easier to enter the country.\n“They use these children as passports to come into this country,” he said.\nThe president said that ultimately wanted a comprehensive immigration bill, but was ready to act now to respond to the crisis.\nHe also canceled the annual congressional picnic at the White House which was scheduled for Thursday.\n“It didn’t feel exactly right to me,” Trump said, referring to the current crisis at the border.}}
{{BISMARCK—North Dakota Superintendent of Public Instruction Kirsten Baesler is inviting North Dakotans to attend one of the free showings of "Most Likely to Succeed," an award-winning, thought-provoking documentary on education reform.\nThe film will be shown at 6 p.m. Tuesday at Dorothy Stickney Auditorium in May Hall on the Dickinson State University campus. It'll also be shown at 6 p.m. CDT Wednesday at the Watford City High School auditorium. The film lasts about 1½ hours and is followed by an audience discussion that typically lasts until 9 p.m.\nThe film presents the argument that American educational practices, which are rooted in traditions more than a century old, need to adjust for the needs of today's students.\nCommentators in the film say the school model hasn't changed as the world economy shifts and traditional white- and blue-collar jobs disappear, and that these trends could produce chronically high levels of unemployment among graduates in the 21st century.\nThe North Dakota Department of Public Instruction, the Greater North Dakota Chamber and North Dakota United are hosting the showings. Each one will be followed by an audience question-and-answer session of the issues raised by the film.\nBaesler and Ted Dintersmith, a venture capitalist and education reform advocate who is the film's executive producer, will take questions afterward.\nThe film has not been generally released to the public, and is not yet available on pay-per-view, streaming services or DVD.\nAttendees are asked to RSVP at " target="_blank">ndchamber.chambermaster.com/events.}}
{{While Senator Kamala Harris might be best known for her tenacity on the Senate floor , she might also consider a second career moonlighting as a DJ thanks to her impeccable taste in music, something she confirmed with a Spotify playlist commemorating African-American Music Appreciation Month.\nIn an interview with Blavity , the California senator revealed a perfectly curated playlist of 45 songs that span genres and eras including R&B, jazz, gospel, soul, pop, funk, reggae, and hip-hop. Artists on the playlist include musical icons like Marvin Gaye and Nina Simone as well as fresh talent like Chance the Rapper and Migos . Harris told Blavity that African-American music is an important part of the creative narrative of the country.\n"Our nation has an indelible soundtrack, songs that have become anthems recognized across the world," she said. "Much of that soundtrack is inspired and informed by the vast contributions of African-American artists in jazz, R&B, rap, hip-hop, and beyond. No matter where you are from or what you look like, music is a bond that can bring us all together. To celebrate African-American music is to dance, sing, and even march to the rhythms that have long served as vehicles for honesty, inspiration, struggle, success and joy."\nHarris' very excellent music curation also puts her in good company with another politician: former President Barack Obama. The former POTUS was famous for his playlists , so much so that Spotify jokingly offered him a job after he finished his time at the White House .}}
{{It's safe to say that 2016 hasn't been everyone's year, but one person who hasn't failed to put a smile on millions of people's faces is Dolly Parton. This year she's illustrated precisely everything we love about the legendary country singer, from her tunes to her philanthropy.\n2016 has been quite the year for Dolly Parton\nShe turned 70-years-old this year and yet she still rocks her bottle blonde locks, bright make-up, sexy curves and rhinestone-studded stage outfits better than anyone. But it's not just her glamour that has maintained her household name status, not is it just her epic international hits like 'Jolene', '9 To 5', 'I Will Always Love You' and 'Coat of Many Colors'.\nDolly is an important humanitarian. In the 80s, the country queen founded her Dollywood Foundation; a charitable trust with which she has funded literacy programs, campaigned for animal rights and conservation, and raised money for the American Red Cross, HIV/AIDS charities and cancer organisations.\nThis year she hosted the three-hour telethon 'Smoky Mountains Rise: A Benefit for the My People Fund' where she raised $9 million for the victims of the Tennessee wildfires - a cause extremely close to her heart because that's where she grew up. Alongside this, she pledged to pay $1,000 a month to victims of the fire in her My People Fund, helping those who have lost their homes and memories rebuild.\nMore: Dolly Parton raises money for wildfire victims\nHer charity work has been so impactful, that this year has seen her inducted into The Happiness Hall of Fame; a non-profit board that recognizes people who have brought joy into the world including Muhammad Ali, Deepak Chopra, Saint Mother Teresa and MC Hammer.\nIt's been a great year for her music too. She landed her first US Country number one in 25 years with this year's album 'Pure & Simple' which she wrote and self-produced. As well as a handful of original songs, the album also included recordings such as her 70s duets with Porter Wagoner ('Tomorrow Is Forever' and 'Say Forever You'll Be Mine'). Dolly followed up the album release with her Pure & Simple Tour taking her across the US and Canada between June and December. Even at her age, you can't drag her away from a live audience.\nShe also launched 'The Complete Trio Collection'; a box set of her work with Emmylou Harris and Linda Ronstadt on 1987's 'Trio' and 1999's 'Trio II'. So this has been quite the year of nostalgia for Dolly.\nCurrently, Dolly Parton is also a Christmas fixture. Following her life story made-for-television movie 'Dolly Parton's Coat of Many Colors' last year, she unveiled the sequel 'Dolly Parton's Christmas of Many Colors: Circle of Love' on November 30th. She made a cameo in this film, despite having only been heard off screen as the narrator in the last movie.\nThe story sees the Parton children - including Dolly - and the father sacrifice their Christmas in order to pay for a wedding ring for her mother, but it's also a time where Dolly's vocal talents are starting to get noticed.\nIf you didn't love Dolly before the movie, you might change your mind after you've seen it.}}
{{Children with links to the care system will be given the chance to attend independent and state boarding schools, the Department for Education announced.\nThe Boarding School Partnerships Information Service will see authorities work with children’s charities to identify pupils who can be put forward for bursaries and scholarships.\nThe announcement builds on wider programmes to support vulnerable children in all schools, including named head teachers who are responsible for supporting their education and almost £2.5 billion funding this year for state schools to support them through the Pupil Premium.\nSchool pupils\nLaunching the new partnership, Parliamentary Under Secretary of State for the School System Lord Agnew said: “Children who have previously been in care or are at risk of care have often gone through difficult, challenging experiences that can have a lasting impact throughout their lives.\nWe’re helping more vulnerable #children to attend some of the country’s top boarding #schools through a new service we’ve announced today https://t.co/77fYil6Df6 pic.twitter.com/2Lq6y1a34w — DfE (@educationgovuk) December 24, 2017\n“These placements won’t be right for every child, but the pastoral care and educational support provided by our top boarding schools can have profound benefits for some young people.\n“I’m delighted that so many organisations are working with us to help create more of these opportunities for these children, helping them to get the best start in life and to go on to reach their full potential, no matter what their background.”\nThe service is being overseen by an expert voluntary board of children’s services professionals, head teachers, charity executives and government officials.\nKing Edward’s School already provides boarding places to several pupils in, or on the edge of, care.\nJohn Attwater, King Edward’s Witley headmaster, said: “We know from long experience that boarding can provide a life-transforming opportunity for vulnerable children and their families, and it is core to our founding mission as a school.\n“I am delighted that this service will give local authorities and others the information they need to consider boarding as an option for children who need it, and put them in touch with schools such as King Edward’s and charities that can make it happen.”\nCouncillor Richard Watts, chairman of the Local Government Association’s Children and Young People board, added: “This initiative provides another option for social workers considering what would work best for individual children and families.\n“While a boarding school placement will not be right for every child, making this opportunity available for those who would benefit is a positive move.\n“But with councils facing a £2 billion funding gap for children’s services by 2020, it is vital that the Government supplements these specific initiatives by providing the additional funding that councils need to ensure that all children can have the bright futures they deserve.”}}
{{Hanukkah, the quiet, little holiday that survives a noisier, bigger winter festival, begins with the lighting of the first candle against the darkness this Saturday night—which is also Christmas Eve.\nYear after year, the assessments begin and the questions accumulate: Is Hanukkah the Jewish Christmas? Which one came first and how are they related? (Of course, the real inquiry every December should be: can the spiritual poetry of either of these festivals be saved as against the maddening mercantile macramé of this annual run to the solar finish line?)\nIn other words: no Hanukkah, no Christmas.\nHere are some simple facts: In ancient Judea, in 168 BCE, a revolt broke against the Greek-Hellenist colonialists who had imposed their rites and rituals upon the indigenous Jewish population for a long time. Synagogues had been shut down and desecrated not only with statues of Zeus, but with pig-idols. Hebrew studies, the Jewish calendar, festivals, and dietary laws were generally prohibited.\nRemember that this was still some 160 years before the birth of Jesus of Nazareth. Jewish life in Judea was being stifled and repressed in favor of Hellenism and its gymnasiums, free-flying philosophies, global intellectualism, art and liberalism. Greek mythology, with its temperamental gods and undeniably powerful literary appeal, drew some intellectual Jews in—along with the other, rather carnal, aspects of Hellenistic civilization.\nSo the armed revolt, led by the famous Maccabees, a popular guerrilla army that went up against Greek-Syrian regulars and their elephants, armor, and spears, was not strictly a Jewish-Greek conflict. The truth was that some Jews favored the socially outlandish Hellenistic lifestyle and there were outbreaks of civil war as well. In the end, the Maccabees and the anti-Hellenists prevailed, culminating with the restoration of the ancient Temple in Jerusalem back to Jewish purity and liturgy.\nThis was first time in history that an indigenous people fought for and won its own religious freedom.\nThe festival was sealed with the legendary oil that lasted for eight days in the tabernacle candelabra, allowing the Maccabees to work day and night to refurbish the Temple—thus the eight nights of Hanukkah. Effectively, the Jewish religion and the Jewish people, on the cusp of extinction again, survived and were renewed.\nSixteen decades later in Judea, a beacon Jewish baby would be born in Bethlehem. Had the Maccabees not saved Judaism however, what would have become of that baby’s family and whence the future story?\nIn other words: no Hanukkah, no Christmas.\nOrder my new book, ‘I DON’T KNOW WHAT TO BELIEVE: Making Spiritual Peace With Your Religion’\nVisit Ben’s Web Site\nClick here for reuse options!}}
{{WASHINGTON—House Speaker Paul Ryan (R., Wis.) said the House would vote Thursday on an immigration bill that would end the Trump administration practice of separating children from parents at the border as part of a larger overhaul.\n“We can enforce our immigration laws without breaking families apart,” Mr. Ryan said.\nThe Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policy toward people who cross the border illegally, rolled out earlier this year, has been widely condemned and resulted in the separation thousands of migrant children from their parents. President Donald Trump has declined to reverse the policy.\nHouse Republican leaders have been working to line up votes on the legislation, a measure they describe as a compromise between conservatives and moderates that aims to meet each of Mr. Trump’s “four pillars.” Besides appropriating $25 billion for a wall along the southern border, the measure would provide six years of renewable legal status to young immigrants brought to the country by their parents and living here without legal authorization, known as Dreamers. It would also end the diversity-visa lottery program, which makes eligible 55,000 people for entry each year from countries that are underrepresented, and cut the family-based visa program.\n“I hope that we will be able to pass this tomorrow,” Mr. Ryan said.\nMr. Trump endorsed both that measure and an alternative known after its chief sponsor, Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R., Va.), at a closed-door GOP conference meeting on Tuesday night. By supporting both measures without choosing one, and addressing topics other than immigration, Mr. Trump left an impression among House Republicans that he wasn’t committed to either approach, an impression that Republican leaders sought to counter on Wednesday.\n“The message was that even though the president was a little unclear perhaps in his chat, he was very much in favor of the [compromise] bill,” Rep. Fred Upton (R., Mich.) said in describing the pitch early Wednesday from House Republican leaders.\nThe “compromise” measure also includes a provision that aims to keep families together in immigration-detention facilities while parents are prosecuted criminally under the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policy. Under a decades-old court settlement, criminal detention centers—or jails—can’t be used to hold children. The measure would also provide as much as $7 billion to fund facilities to house families, which under the legislation would qualify for funds set aside for border-funding technology.\nFamilies would remain in the custody of the Department of Homeland Security, rather than having minors shifted to care under the Department of Health and Human Services.\nMr. Ryan didn’t say which approach he might take if the compromise measure failed to clear the House or stalled in the Senate. Republicans in general are divided over how to treat Dreamers, and several bills, including one reflecting Mr. Trump’s priorities, failed in the Senate earlier this year. Democrats, for their part, are unifying against both GOP-written bills.\nIn the meantime, the issue of family separation is pressuring Republicans to act as midterm elections loom.\n“Right now we are focused on passing this legislation that is coming to the floor tomorrow,” Mr. Ryan said.\nIn the meeting late Tuesday, Mr. Trump stopped short of telling House Republicans that he would immediately reverse his policy.\nOn the controversy over immigrant families, Mr. Trump said: “We have to take care of separation,” according to a lawmaker in the room. “It’s too nasty, it’s too nasty.”\nWrite to Siobhan Hughes at siobhan.hughes@wsj.com}}
{{Kirkstone House School, Baston, kept true to its motto of “Where the individual counts” after two of its star pupils produced “superb” GCSE results.\nHead boy Matthew Hunt and head girl Charlotte Thurston led by example, gaining 22 GCSEs between them with grades of mostly A* and A.\nMatthew and Charlotte automatically become members of the school’s Old Students’ Association and headteacher Corinne Jones said “We are absolutely thrilled at the superb results the school has achieved this year.”\nWriting on the school’s website, Mrs Jones added: “As Headmistress, I am extremely proud of the school’s achievements, both academically and in terms of the many varied activities in which pupils are engaged.\n“We are an entirely inclusive school, accepting pupils of all abilities, and our success lies in the fact that we enable all to achieve both their personal and academic potential.\n“We never lose sight of the individual at the heart of all we do and our mission statement is that ‘The Individual Counts’.\nWe are absolutely thrilled at the superb results the school has achieved this year Corinne Jones, Headmistress, Kirkstone House School, Baston\n“As a school, we understand that happy, well-motivated pupils who have excellent self-esteem, who care for themselves and for each other, are what makes a school a success.”}}
{{By ELVIS ONDIEKI\nMore by this Author\nBetty Musambi knows there is no food she can prepare in her house that her two children can consider special.\nUnlike in years gone by when Christmas would be the only time when children had enough supply of chapati, mandazi, roast meat, samosa among other foodstuffs, in her household — and indeed in many homes across Kenya — the children have become accustomed to such meals.\nTo make today count, Mrs Musambi plans to take the children to one of the top hotels in Nairobi.\n“I want them to choose for themselves what to eat,” she said yesterday.\nThe mother of two is not alone. Across the country, one of the worries Kenyans have been harbouring is how to ensure this year’s Christmas does not pass like any other Sunday.\nNothing special\nNot many meals are “special” any more and, to some Kenyans, there are no more “special” places left to visit that will make it a day to remember.\nThat is why a top executive at a city firm, who sought anonymity for personal reasons, plans to fly to Dubai with his family after attending Christmas festivities with his extended family today.\n“My children are teenagers. For them, it’s not really a big deal that you’re buying new clothes and all that. They enjoy travelling instead” said the father of two.\nHe added that they have been travelling to various destinations across Kenya on Christmas Day in previous years and that it had become a tad boring.\nFrom our talks with parents, it emerged that today’s children are a more enlightened lot and are forcing their parents to wrack their brains so they can offer something new.\n“I wanted to take them to the Lunar Park at Uhuru Park but they refused. They said they want to swim,” said Ms Jane Njoki, who lives in Machakos County with her husband and four children.\nShe added that her children have been to Uhuru Park a couple of times and so they demanded to visit a facility with swimming which is a 15-minute drive from their home. Her eldest child is 13 while the youngest is two.\nMs Njoki said that chapatis had also been struck off the Christmas menu because “they are meant for people in the countryside” and so fish and ugali would do for supper. Most of those adjustments will force her to cough more money but she sounded prepared for it.\nKisumu-based businessman Alex Otieno, known for organising the annual Vybez Music Awards at the lakeside city, will take his family to the Maasai Mara national reserve in Narok County in his bid to make today a Christmas to remember.\nMr Otieno, who has a wife and two children aged four and two, has never made a Christmas trip to any other tourist attraction with his family before. He hopes the visit will make a difference.\nMr Rodgers Ogola, who also resides in Kisumu County, has come to understand like most other parents that children have an affinity for swimming pools and so he will be taking his children, aged nine and two, to a facility near Katito for a swim.\nMiles away in Kisii County, Ms Dinah Bosibori, a mother of five, will dig a bit deeper into her pockets to ensure her five children have a good supply of snacks and soft drinks, which she says they do not see so much of in the course of the year.\nShe said she was also considering taking the children, the eldest aged 20, to a resort near their home so that, for the first time, they can have a memorable experience of being inside the much-talked-about facility about two kilometres from their home.\nSpeaking of memories, Mrs Musambi said one of the programmes for Christmas Day is to visit a hospital with her three-year-old firstborn and the second-born aged five months.\n“If it is new clothes, we buy like daily. If it is taking them out, we do. But this time round, after church, I’d like to take my children to visit children in hospital to give them gifts and Christmas. That is something they will always remember — that on Christmas Day 2016, we went to pray for sick children and gave them presents,” she said.}}
{{Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.}}
{{When nude photos of five Louisville, Kentucky, high school students surfaced on a Russia-based website, they had no idea how they got there. After all, they were intended only for the eyes of their partners.\nThe teens were mystified until a police investigation in October led them to another culprit in a harsh lesson in reality–their principal, according to The Associated Press.\nLawyers for the five women last week filed a class-action lawsuit against former LaRue County High School Principal Stephen Kyle Goodlett, 37, and the Kentucky county’s school district, claiming a violation of protections against unreasonable search and seizure and violated Title IX, the federal law prohibiting discrimination based on sex in education, The AP reported.\nJoseph H. Mattingly III filed for class-action status on behalf of the plaintiffs, who are identified by initials and have asked to remain anonymous, the report says. About 50 others could join the suit, which is seeking compensatory and punitive damages.\nGoodlett was fired in October after pleading guilty to federal child pornography charges. He reportedly admitted to a pornography addiction, and that he searched for nude images of students on confiscated phones, Department of Homeland Security Special Agent Brady Oberholtzer said in the complaint.\nGoodlett’s attorney in the federal criminal case didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment. He has pleaded not guilty to 63 state child porn charges.\nSOURCE: The Associated Press, the Courier-Journal\nSEE ALSO:\nMegyn Kelly’s Debut Bombs\nHomophobic Bullies Pushed Bronx Teen Over The Edge Before Fatal Stabbing}}
{{LAC-MEGANTIC, Quebec (Reuters) - A U.S. expert who worked on the aftermath of the September 11 attacks is helping Canadian authorities sift through wreckage left more than a week after a runaway train barreled into a lakeside town in Quebec killing 50 people, police said on Wednesday.\nFrank DePaolo, an emergency specialist from New York’s Office of the Chief Medical Examiner, visited the ruins of Lac-Megantic earlier in the week.\nDePaolo is an expert in managing major disaster sites and is responsible for one of the forensic teams working at the collapsed World Trade Center towers in New York City.\n“He said the efforts were complex and difficult and he was overwhelmed (by) the enormity of the situation,” Quebec police spokesman Michel Forget told reporters.\nA spokeswoman in DePaolo’s New York office said he was not available for comment.\nInvestigators are painstakingly working their way through Lac-Megantic, where a runaway crude oil train derailed and exploded on July 6 leaving burned-down buildings, mountains of rail-related debris and charred trees. Some 37 bodies have been recovered and investigators are still searching for more remains.\nIt was North America’s deadliest rail accident in more than 20 years.\nThe center of the town - in the mainly French-speaking province of Quebec - is considered a crime scene and it will likely be weeks to months before trains are able to run again.\nA firefighter and an emergency crew work on the site of the train wreck in Lac Megantic, July 16, 2013. REUTERS/Ryan Remiorz/Pool\nQuebec police have said their investigation of the crash is still in its early stages, although they say they are looking at the possibility of criminal negligence.\nCanada’s new transportation minister, Lisa Raitt, met local officials in Lac-Megantic on Wednesday and said the federal government was ready to help the community. She gave no details.\nEarlier on the day the railway company at the center of the disaster confirmed it had laid off a number of people in Maine and Quebec.\nThe cutbacks at the Montreal, Maine and Atlantic Railway (MMA) come 11 days after a runaway train hauling 72 tanker cars of crude oil derailed and exploded in the center of Lac-Megantic, leveling the heart of the small town.\n“This is because of the track being broken at Lac-Megantic,” Cathy Aldana, a vice president at Rail World Inc, the parent company of MMA, told Reuters. “The intent is to rehire the employees when the line is open again.”\nAldana could not confirm how many employees were affected by the layoffs, but Canadian media outlets, citing union sources, reported that 19 people were laid off in Quebec alone.\nA Quebec union representative was not immediately available for comment.\nThe disaster in Lac-Megantic has cut off local firms that use the railroad to ship their products to customers, including exports to Maine, just 18 miles away.}}
{{July 25 (Reuters) - Police raided the Canadian offices of Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Railway on Thursday as part of their investigation into a train crash earlier this month that destroyed the center of the small town of Lac-Megantic, Quebec, and killed 47 people.\n“We are executing a search warrant,” Sergeant Benoit Richard of the provincial police, Sûréte du Québec, told Reuters. “We are searching the offices now.”\nRichard said officers were combing through the railway’s office in Farnham, Quebec, about 65 kms (40 miles) east of Montreal, in search of evidence that could help with their investigation into the July 6 tragedy.\nMontreal Maine & Atlantic (MMA), a unit of Chicago-based Rail World Inc, operated the train that crashed into Lac-Megantic.\nThe train, which was hauling 72 tanker cars full of crude oil, and was operated by a single engineer, had been parked for the night on a main line uphill from the lakeside town. After the engineer left, it started rolling downhill, derailed in the center of Lac-Megantic and exploded into a wall of fire.\nMMA Chairman Ed Burkhardt was not immediately available for comment on Thursday. In the days after the crash, he publicly questioned whether the engineer had set enough brakes to hold the train in place before he left for the night.\nInvestigators are still searching the center of Lac-Megantic for clues on the cause of crash. They have said the train’s hand brakes are one focus of their probe. (Reporting by Julie Gordon Editing by Peter Galloway)}}
{{(Adds police confirmation)\nNEW DELHI, July 24 (Reuters) - Indian police on Wednesday arrested the headmistress of a school where 23 children died after eating a meal laced with pesticide in one of India’s deadliest food poisoning outbreaks in years.\nThe woman, who had been missing for more than a week, was detained while on her way to court to surrender, said Sujit Kumar, superintendent of police in Saran district in the eastern state of Bihar.\nThe children fell ill within minutes of eating a meal of rice and soybean-potato curry in their one-room school on July 16, vomiting and convulsing with stomach cramps. Many died, some on the floor of a hospital where they went for treatment, within hours of consuming the food.\nForensic tests showed the meal was contaminated with monocrotophos, a lethal pesticide banned in many countries. Police have said the headmistress is key to solving the mystery of how the pesticide ended up in the food.\nPolice have been searching for the woman since she fled the district where the school is located. Kumar said she had been hiding in the district.\nThe free school lunch was part of India’s mid-day meal scheme that covers 120 million children and aims to fight malnutrition and encourage school attendance. The programme had already drawn widespread complaints over food safety. (Reporting by Mayank Bhardwaj and Ross Colvin; Writing by Sanjeev Miglani; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)}}
{{Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) (arrives at a meeting between President Donald Trump and House Republicans at the U.S. Capitol on Tuesday. | Alex Wong/Getty Images GOP immigration bills on brink of collapse Trump’s address to House Republicans failed to win over skeptical conservatives.\nHouse Republicans plan to vote Thursday on dueling immigration packages — but both are largely expected to fail, delivering a defeat to GOP leadership as the party struggles to address the family separation crisis at the border.\nPresident Donald Trump appears to have been unable to convince wary conservatives to back a carefully-crafted immigration package with his address to GOP lawmakers Tuesday night. And an increasing number of GOP lawmakers are now urging their leaders to take up a narrow approach to prevent the Homeland Security Department from splitting migrant children from their parents.\nStory Continued Below\nMany on the far-right interpreted the president’s call to action as little more than lip service for a leadership-backed bill that includes a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers, funding for Trump’s wall with Mexico and provisions to halt family separation.\nThey’re still wary of voting for a bill they fear will be viewed as “amnesty,” leaving GOP leaders with far fewer than the 218 votes needed to pass the plan.\n“I don’t plan on supporting the second one,” House Freedom Caucus founder Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) said of the “compromise” bill crafted by leadership, conservatives and moderate Republicans. Referring to a more conservative proposal from Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte, Jordan added, “A number of our guys have concerns with the second Goodlatte bill.”\nThe expected demise of both measures suggests that the president’s attempt to leverage his hotly-contested family separation policy to get his border wall and curbs to legal immigration will not work.\nWhite House officials had sought to use the grim scenes at the border to force Democrats to the negotiating table and finally land Trump major immigration policy changes. But Trump can’t even get his own party on the same page, let alone Democrats.\n“The president can reverse the policy of separating families today,” said Rep. Chris Stewart of Utah, one of the first Trump allies in the House to publicly ask the administration to stop the practice. “If he doesn’t, Congress must vote to end it.”\nSign up here for POLITICO Huddle A daily play-by-play of congressional news in your inbox. Email Sign Up By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time.\nAnd in a rare retreat, Trump said Wednesday that he would sign an executive order to keep families together, even as he said congressional action was still needed.\nJust hours before Trump’s comments, Speaker Paul Ryan and GOP leaders were echoing White House talking points, telling reporters Wednesday morning that Homeland Security had no choice but to separate families under the current law — never mind that legal experts and a number of their own GOP colleagues dispute that notion.\nHouse GOP leaders have not asked the administration to pause the policy, as some Senate Republicans have, but called for Congress to pass a broader immigration package. Ryan would not say whether he would take up a standalone bill to address the crisis.\nHouse GOP leaders continued meeting with undecided Republicans, putting some in vans and sending them to the White House to meet with the president on the “compromise” legislation.\nBut Ryan is losing key rank-and-file members, including some who are very close to the president. House Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) is seeking a vote on his new, narrowly tailored bill to keep families together. He’s even reaching out to Democrats to find out how he can make his proposal bipartisan.\nAnd Meadows is far from alone.\nDuring a closed-door GOP conference meeting Wednesday, Rep. Keith Rothfus of Pennsylvania also pressed leaders to put something on the floor to fix the problem. He and several others mentioned Sen. Ted Cruz’s proposal to keep families together and double the number of border judges that adjudicate cases, which would ease the backlog and detainment time.\n“A couple of members are individually saying, ‘Why don’t we take that up and pass it today?’” said Rep. Fred Upton, a centrist Republican from Michigan.\nComing out of the GOP conference meeting, several conservatives backed immediate action as well. Rep. Mark Sanford said, “I would support such a measure,” as did Jordan.\nMeanwhile, the broader immigration “compromise” measure seemed to flounder.\nConservatives argued that if Trump wanted that bill to pass, he would have been more explicit in his endorsement Tuesday night.\nInstead, the president said he supported that plan and the more conservative Goodlatte package, leaving conservatives thinking they could vote for just that one and still stay in Trump’s good graces.\nRyan and Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy tried to argue during the closed-door conference meeting Wednesday that Trump had meant to back the compromise bill completely — even if some didn’t take it that way.\nAttorney General Jeff Sessions, an immigration hard-liner, also was making calls to conservatives in an effort to drum up support for the proposal, according to two Republican sources.\nBut other lawmakers said the president needed to weigh in further, whether through phone calls or a tweet.\nAfter the Tuesday night meeting with Trump, GOP leaders whipped the bill and found that they were far short of the 218 votes need to pass the legislation. But they’ve still scheduled the votes for Thursday night.}}
{{NEW YORK (Reuters Health) - Children who listened to music while an IV needle was inserted into their arms were less stressed than kids who didn’t listen to music, in a new study from Canada.\n“We were really looking to see if music could reduce the distress in children,” said Lisa Hartling, the study’s lead author from University of Alberta in Edmonton.\nAside from pain medication, other ways to help control pain in the emergency department (ED) include distractions such as audio, video, stories, imagery and concentrated breathing exercises, Hartling and her colleagues say.\n“One of the features of music is that it’s a very powerful distracter,” said Linda Chlan, who has studied music therapy but was not involved in the new study.\nPast research has shown that music significantly reduces pain and anxiety during medical procedures.\nFor the new study, conducted at Stollery Children’s Hospital in Edmonton between January 2009 and March 2010, Hartling and her colleagues randomly assigned 42 children to either listen to music playing out loud in the room, or not, while intravenous (IV) needles were inserted into their arm in the ED. The same music recordings were played for each child.\nThe children also received the usual treatments to help make the procedures less painful, including pain relievers applied to the skin, and comforting, supportive words from the medical staff.\nReviewers watched a video recording of each IV insertion to measure the children’s stress before and immediately after the procedure on a scale from 0 to 23.5 - with higher scores representing more distress. The reviewers did not know which children were listening to music, according to a report of the study published in the medical journal JAMA Pediatrics.\nThe children, who were all between three and 11 years old, were also asked about the amount of pain they experienced during the procedure.\nOverall, the researchers didn’t find a difference between the music and non-music groups in the amount of distress experienced by children immediately before and after the procedures.\nHowever, after they excluded the 10 kids who didn’t stress at all during the IV insertion, the researchers found the distress level in children who listened to music rose less than it did in kids who didn’t have music playing during the procedure.\nThey found the distress level of the children in the non-music group increased 2.2 points on the scale, compared to a 1.1 point increase in music-group kids.\nThat difference would be noticeable, according to the researchers.\nWhat’s more, children in the non-music group said their pain increased by about two points on a scale from 0 to 10 - with higher numbers indicating more pain. Children in the music group, in contrast, reported no increase in pain.\nHealthcare providers were also more likely to say the IV insertion procedure was “very easy” in the music group than in the non-music group.\n“Based on the research I’ve seen, the review of the literature we’ve done and our study, music has the potential to benefit and - at worse - won’t do any harm,” Hartling told Reuters Health.\nChlan, Distinguished Professor of Symptom Management Research at The Ohio State University College of Nursing in Columbus, said the study shows that the practice holds potential, but she’d like to see a study that includes a group of kids wearing headphones to eliminate distractions in the non-music group.\n“I think this opens the door that this is a safe intervention, and kids and parents like it. Those are two of the main concerns for healthcare providers,” she said.\nThe method is also appealing because it’s cheap and easy to employ, said Joke Bradt, an associate professor in the Creative Arts Therapies Department at Drexel University College of Nursing and Health Professions in Philadelphia.\n“I hope as more studies like this get published it becomes more mainstream,” said Bradt, who wasn’t involved in the new study.\nSOURCE: bit.ly/12uJgQC JAMA Pediatrics, online July 16, 2013.}}
{{These two are spending their first Christmas together (Picture: David M. Benett/Dave Benett/WireImage)\nWe may be nearly at the big day, but Love Island‘s Chris Hughes is feeling the Christmas pressure more than most as he looks to sweep girlfriend Olivia Attwood off her feet.\nThe couple famously met during Love Island earlier this year and it seemed it was love at first sight for the pair.\nBut after a turbulent few months and recent rumours of a potential split, Chris knows that a lot is riding on him delivering a perfect day for his girlfriend as they spend their first Christmas together.\nChristmas cheer for these two (hopefully) (Picture: David Fisher/REX/Shutterstock)\nAsked whether he feels under pressure to treat his girlfriend to lavish gifts, Chris – who previously bought Olivia a Celine bag – explained to OK! Magazine: ‘I went away to America to film with Kem, just after Love Island, so I popped into Harrods beforehand to give her a nice surprise and make her happy before going.\n‘I got it delivered for the morning after I left, her first morning without me. I know what you mean [over the expensive gift]! Going forward, it was quite a big gift!\n‘It was just nice though, it’s been a while since I’ve had a chance to treat someone! It’s a nice handbag! She makes good use of it!’ he said.\nThe couple have endured their fair share of ups and downs since they left the ITV dating show, but Chris believes their relationship is now stronger than ever.\nThe pair will be spending Christmas Day at one of their families’ houses, so they wake up together.\nAfter a turbulent year, Olivia and Chris are looking forward to a romantic Christmas (Picture: Brett Cove/Silverhub/REX/Shutterstock)\nAnd can the Love Island favourite reveal anymore about his plans?\n“I’ve got an idea but I can’t say! I’ve bought her a few things, but I like sentimental things more than actual, big gifts. I’ve got a little plan up my sleeve as well, I just have to keep it all quiet!’ he said.\nGot a story? If you've got a story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk Entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page - we'd love to hear from you.\nMORE: Olivia Attwood gives strongest hint yet she and Chris Hughes have split: ‘My heart hurts’\nMORE: Chris Hughes and Kem Cetinay aren’t planning on releasing new music}}
{{Get celebs updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nFor 14 years, Will Ferrell's fantasy comedy film Elf has been a firm favourite with Christmas lovers.\nIn fact, people love it so much they get genuinely outraged when it's not shown on British television over the festive season.\n(Guys, just buy the DVD if you love it so much).\nIf you don't want to buy the DVD and you want something to put you off the film so you don't miss it, then one Reddit user might have the answer.\nBatfan54 has a theory that Buddy isn't actually as innocent as he seems - and he uses one particular scene to back it up.\nStick with him on this...\n"About midway through the movie, Buddy hears Zooey Deschanel's character singing from inside the locker room elsewhere in the store.\n"He goes to investigate because, well, she's singing a Christmas song and he loves Christmas!\n"Turns out that she's actually singing in the shower, and Buddy begins to sing along with her.\n"When she notices, she obviously freaks out and yells at Buddy to get out, who immediately clasps his hands over his eyes and makes a mad rush to the door, only to hit a locker.\n"But afterwards, Zooey Deschanel confronts Buddy and asks him why he was in the Ladies' Locker Room while she was naked in the shower.\n(Image: Rex)\n"Buddy replies by saying, "I didn't know you were naked in the shower." Haha, Elves don't understand showers, Buddy is so innocent! Joke landed."\nBut Batfan54 goes on to point out a discrepancy with this, which makes Buddy seem a little less innocent than he makes out.\n"Buddy does know what a shower is, and he most certainly knew she was naked! We get this scene earlier in the movie, while Buddy is still in the North Pole.\n"Buddy might not be the smartest guy, but he most certainly does know what a shower is, and just how naked one has to be to take one. So what conclusion are we left to draw?\n"Buddy, the sicko as he is, was actually trying to peep on Zooey while she was in the shower, and played his sick fetish off as innocence and just wanted to sing a Christmas song.\n"It begs the question, what else has Buddy played off with his innocence?"\nHe goes on to question some of Buddy's other actions in the film - from brutally injuring multiple children on their way home from school in the epic snowball fight he takes part in with his brother.\nThe viewer also points out that Buddy has an obsession with "syrup" - is it really syrup? - to get "horribly sh**-faced on the job" and he "uses his so-called innocence to verbally abuse a man with a disability."\n"Buddy is not the man you all thought - he is a demented man-child that's using his "innocence" to live out sick fantasies of abuse and sexual desire."\nThanks, Batfan54, we'll never watch Elf in the same way again.\nLove Christmas movies? Try out the quiz below}}
{{Some big names in baseball could be coming to Boston but they would be joining the Huskies, not necessarily the Red Sox.\nAdvertisement\nNortheastern University and Major League Baseball have forged a partnership to provide pro baseball players in the majors and minors with access to higher education programs and degrees to advance their education in the event their playing careers do not lead to Cooperstown.\nRoughly 7,000 MLB players -- including 1,200 in the big league -- will have access to Northeastern's full range of academic offerings, including bachelor's degree, master's degree and certificate programs with both in-person and online courses\n"We recognize the challenges that professional baseball players, like so many others in our society, face in obtaining high-quality educational opportunities," Northeastern President Joseph Aoun said in a statement. "We must be boundless, and meet learners where they are."\nMLB selected Northeastern as its "preferred education provider" after the latest collective bargaining agreement with the MLB Players Association included a continuing education program, which now provides players with funds devoted to their educational development.\nIn many ways, Northeastern and MLB are a good fit. The first modern World Series was played at the Red Sox first home, the Huntington Avenue Grounds, land that is now part of the Northeastern campus. The campus also includes the site of the former South End Grounds, where the Boston teams (Red Stockings, then Beaneaters, then finally Braves) won 12 league championships and played two World Series. And Fenway Park is a short walk through the Fens.\nNortheastern's baseball program has produced few MLB players, but can claim journeyman Carlos Pena as an alum. Current head coach Mike Glavine -- brother of Hall of Famer Tom Glavine -- played six games with the New York Mets in 2003. And Red Sox radio voice Joe Castiglione taught at Northeastern for nearly 30 years.}}
{{This Black Music Month we recognize the entertainment industry’s uncle, Snoop Dogg for his legendary contributions to Hip-Hop, TV & Film and Business.\nSnoop Dogg, born Calvin Cordozar Broadus, Jr. on October 20, 1971, is an American Icon. The rapper turned actor first burst onto the scene in 1992 as a feature on Dr. Dre’s “Deep Cover,” the lead single from Dr. Dre‘s debut solo album The Chronic. Just the next year he released his debut album Doggystyle, which debuted at no. 1 on the Billboard 200 and Billboard R&B/Hip-Hop albums, and was certified 4x platinum in 1994.\nToday, Snoop Dogg boasts 37 million albums sold worldwide! His discography includes sixteen studio albums, four collaborative albums, seventeen compilation albums, two extended plays, twenty mixtapes, 127 singles (including seventy-four as a featured artist), and fourteen promotional singles.\nOnce Snoop Dogg stepped into acting there was no turning back. He has built an extensive career as an actor too, appearing in roles across varying genres through a variety of platforms. These include music videos, feature films, television, animated voice-over work and video-games!\nYou’ve probably seen him on the big screen as in Baby Boy (2001) as Rodney, Training Day (2001) as Blue, Bones (2001) as Jimmy Bones or Soul Plane (2004) as Captain Antoine Mack. We’ve seen him on the silver screen in 90210, Weeds, King of the Hill as “Alabaster” a white pimp, Chappelle’s Show as Dangle the puppet, and himself and Empire as himself.\nCurrently, Snoop Dogg hosts two network shows, Martha & Snoop’s Pot Luck and Snoop Dogg presents Joker’s Wild.\nBet you didn’t know Snoop Dogg produced, directed and starred in a couple of porns too? (Don’t worry, he didn’t do any sex scenes.)\nBut back to the music. You decide…\nWhich Song is Snoop Dogg’s Greatest Hit?\nVote here after the jump\nGin and Juice (1994)\n“Gin and Juice” is Snoop Dogg’s second single from his debut album Doggystyle.\nIt reached the top ten on the Billboard Hot 100, peaking at number eight.\nIt earned went Gold after selling 700,000 copies and was nominated for the 1995 Grammy Award for Best Rap Solo Performance. It was listed as number eight on VH1’s 100 Greatest Songs of Hip Hop.\nNext Song ➔\nBlack Music Month: Snoop Dogg was originally published on 955thelou.com\n1 2 3 4 5 6Next page »\nAlso On 93.9 WKYS:}}
{{share tweet pin email\nEditor's note: This story was first published on Feb. 7, 2017, and updated for World Refugee Day on June 20, 2017.\nThe letters arrive by the hundreds, to be sorted at the warehouse where a Southern California mom assembles backpacks of supplies for child refugees. Message of hope and love — some in scribbled crayon, some in graceful script — written for children without a home, half a world away.\n“Have hope. You are loved. Don’t give up.”\n“You are not alone.”\n“We care.”\nVolunteers tuck the letters into child-sized backpacks destined for refugee camps in Europe and the Middle East, packed and shipped by Operation Refugee Child. The backpacks contain necessities for families fleeing war and terror, like diapers, warm socks, blankets and protein bars. But each package also contains something extra — a small coloring book with crayons, or stickers or a baby rattle — just a little something to restore a tiny bit of childhood to kids who have been forced to grow up far too fast.\nRELATED VIDEO: Meet the American moms helping child refugees\nOperation Refugee Child is a labor of love for Gader Ibrahim, a 32-year-old mom of two and former bakery owner, born and raised in California, who by her own description was living a pretty standard Orange County mom life until recently. She worried about schools and her kids and the usual stuff. Then she saw the heartbreaking photo of Aylan Kurdi, the little boy who drowned in the Mediterranean Sea while his family made the perilous journey fleeing Syria. He was one of 8,793 refugees who died making the crossing in 2015 and 2016, according to the U.N.; so far this year, an estimated 1,990 are dead or missing.\nAylan looked just like her own little boy.\n“I was a sobbing mess. I looked at my husband like, I need to do something. He was like, ‘Go to Greece.’” So Ibrahim joined a volunteer group of women bringing baby carriers to refugees. Greeting refugees just off the boat in Greece, Ibrahim saw a need — and also saw that an ordinary American mom like her could make a difference.\nNever miss an inspiring parenting story from TODAY! Sign up for our newsletter here.\nCourtesy Gail Simms Marino/Memories of Me Photos Gader Ibrahim, right, poses with her husband Zaki and her sons Vincent and Jacob. Ibrahim, who lives in Orange County, California, founded Operation Refugee Child.\nInspired, she came home and started putting together backpacks. A year and a half later, Operation Refugee Child now has official 501(c)3 tax-exempt charity status. They’ve shipped more than 6,500 backpacks to refugees in Greece and Jordan — and each backpack contains a letter.\n“Please take comfort in knowing that other families are thinking about yours and praying for your safety,” one typical note says.\n“I hope you find a good place to live. I hope you like the cool things we sent in your package. My favorite is the Hello Kitty word search. I picked it out myself,” reads another letter, written in careful elementary school pencil letters and signed "Kailee."\nSome people include family photos. Some draw pictures of their dogs. When she travels to refugee camps to distribute aid, Ibrahim sees the same letters hanging on the walls of tents. She’s seen first-hand how refugee children and their parents treasure the letters (even though some of them can’t read English).\n“Letters mean a lot. They think, ‘Oh people actually care about us. We’re not forgotten,’” Ibrahim said. “It’s so sweet, I love it.”\nCourtesy Operation Refugee Child\nThe letters paint a picture that’s very different from the recent heated rhetoric and political debate around refugees and immigrants. People of all political persuasions send letters and donations and join Ibrahim for regular volunteer sorting and packing days at the warehouse.\n“People still care,” Ibrahim said. “I’m shocked at how many people still care.”\nIn fact, Ibrahim recalled a recent argument on Facebook with an old high school friend about the campaign to boycott Starbucks after the company’s pledge to hire 10,000 refugees. Ibrahim supported Starbucks; her friend, a Trump voter, supported the boycott. They argued, but a few days later when Ibrahim posted an urgent request for donations to help refugees, her Trump-supporting friend was the first to donate money as well as volunteer her time.\n“People really feel strongly about certain things, but they still have that humanity inside them,” Ibrahim said.\nCourtesy Operation Refugee Child A young volunteer writes a note to refugee children for Operation Refugee Child.\nWriting letters, sending donations and packing bags and boxes for refugees is definitely a family affair at Operation Refugee Child. Ibrahim’s two sons are 4 and 1; the 4-year-old recently learned to write his name and loves to sign his drawings and letters for child refugees. While she knows she can't solve all the world's problems, Ibrahim says the best feeling is watching young children participate and volunteer. Echoing a sentiment Mahatma Gandhi made famous, she says: "I want them to be the change they want to see in the world."\nCourtesy Operation Refugee Child One of the more extraordinary letters to arrive at Operation Refugee Child's warehouse came from a woman who wrote about how she, as a child during World War II, received care packages "from people who cared even about the children of their enemies." She never forgot their kindness.\nEditor's note: This story was first published on Feb. 7, 2017, and updated on June 20, 2017.}}
{{High school students and activists pressed their protest against ethnic segregation at schools in central Bosnia on Tuesday, after scoring an unprecedented victory against a government decision to further divide them along ethnic lines.\nTRAVNIK, Bosnia: High school students and activists pressed their protest against ethnic segregation at schools in central Bosnia on Tuesday, after scoring an unprecedented victory against a government decision to further divide them along ethnic lines.\nThe Bosniak and Croat students succeeded in their year-long fight against the regional government, forcing it to reverse its decision to divide them into two separate, ethnically based schools in the town of Jajce.\nEmboldened by their victory, the young people gathered on Tuesday before the government building in Travnik to request the abolition of other schools in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzeovina where Bosniak and Croats attend separate classes in the same building.\nThey held placards reading "Friendship under Embargo" and "Death to Politics, Freedom to Education".\nFollowing the war of the 1990s, Orthodox Serbs, Catholic Croats and Muslim Bosniaks represent so-called constituent people in Bosnia. In schools, each group has its own national curriculum and each is taught in the Serb, Croat or Bosnian language, although linguists say they are essentially one language.\nAdvertisement\nAdvertisement\n"We have fought and will continue to fight against fascism at schools, divisions and segregation," said Nikolas Rimac, a Croat student who led the fight against divisions in Jajce. "It's great that the ministry overturned its decision to form a new school, but this is just the first step."\nMore than 20 years since the war between Bosnian Serbs, Croats and Bosniaks, reconciliation is slow. Ad hoc solutions that were devised on an interim basis after the war are firmly in place.\nAmong those are 54 so-called "Two schools under one roof", one of them in Jajce, where Croat and Bosniak children attend classes according to their national curricula. They use the same building but are physically separated and don't socialise.\n"If you are put in a fence in the primary school, and then again in the secondary school, you'll never ask yourself what is it like to socialise with these other people," Sabina Ruzdijic, a mathematics and physics teacher from Jajce, told Reuters.\nRimac said such schools were "prisons and factories of hatred".\nIn Bosnia, where Bosniak, Croat and Serb nationalist parties base their power on distrust of each others, all attempts to unify education have failed so far.\n"Unless politicians make necessary changes and abolish divisions, there will be no co-existence and progress," said Amar Kundalic, the organiser of the protest. "That is the only way to stop young people from leaving Bosnia because of education."\nTeacher Ruzdijic was more optimistic: "I admire these kids. They are my heroes and inspiration. They motivate me even more to do my job."\n(Reporting by Daria Sito-Sucic; Editing by)}}
{{Oddly, Samsung and Google still haven't made an official announcement about it. But that didn't stop Reddit from figuring out a workaround so that anyone could access this station; I'm listening to it right now on my iPad. But most average users won't even know this station exists. And that's a shame -- this is exactly the kind of feature Google needs to add to stay competitive with Spotify and Apple.\nDon't get me wrong, I love Play Music -- it's a lot cleaner and simpler to navigate than Apple Music, and it lets me upload my own music library to live alongside the streaming catalog, something Spotify doesn't offer on smartphones. I've also come to enjoy the vast swath of stations that Google features; they often help me find new tunes. But some of Play Music's simplicity comes from the fact that Google doesn't update it very often and it's lacking some key features that Spotify and Apple include -- most notably any form of social integration.\nGoogle's slower development cycle makes sense. Spotify's entire business rests on the success of its music service, and Apple has made music a tentpole of its strategy for almost two decades now. But Google has a number of vastly more important initiatives that take precedence over music. That's what makes this supposed Samsung exclusive so frustrating -- it's not often that we see genuinely useful new features hit Play Music. When one shows up that's only meant for a small number of people, it's damn frustrating.\nSadly, that's not likely to change any time soon. Spotify and Apple's subscriber bases are growing rapidly -- it's basically a two-horse race at this point. And Google has made it clear that it would offer exclusives to Samsung going forward. I'm just hoping that exclusive features like New Release Radio aren't kept exclusive forever, because I'm sure many of them will be notable improvements to a solid service. But if new Play Music features are kept exclusive to Samsung owners -- even if only temporarily -- it's going to be hard for me to recommend or use it anymore.}}
{{Chile issued a tsunami warning and evacuation order for southern coastal areas after an earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 7.7 struck 225 km (140 miles) southwest of Puerto Montt in southern Chile on Sunday.\nThe tsunami warning was issued for areas within 1,000 km (621 miles) of the epicenter of the quake, the U.S.-based Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said. Tsunami waves reaching around one meter (3 feet) above the tide level are expected along parts of the Chilean coast, according to local emergency services.\nThe first tidal waves were expected to arrive at the shoreline in Chile‘s Los Lagos region by 1 p.m. local time (11.00 a.m. ET), Chile‘s National Emergency Office (Onemi) said. Onemi chief Ricardo Toro called on Los Lagos residents to abandon beaches and go to safe zones.\nThe quake’s depth was about 15 km (nine miles), the U.S. Geological Survey said.\nOnemi said there were no immediate reports of deaths or injuries.\nAccording to media reports, the quake was felt in the southwest Argentine city of Bariloche.Chile is the world’s leading copper producer, but there are no major mines located near the zone affected by the earthquake.\nChile has a long history of deadly quakes, including a 8.8 magnitude quake in 2010 off the south-central coast, which also triggered a tsunami that devastated coastal towns.}}
{{Michigan man celebrates Christmas with wife in nursing home\nIn this Saturday, Dec. 8, 2018 photo, Don West, 90, leans in to kiss his wife Jackie goodnight at Golden Days II Adult Foster Care in Charlotte following a Christmas party for residents and staff at the home. (Matthew Dae Smith/Lansing State Journal via AP) less In this Saturday, Dec. 8, 2018 photo, Don West, 90, leans in to kiss his wife Jackie goodnight at Golden Days II Adult Foster Care in Charlotte following a Christmas party for residents and staff at the home. ... more Photo: Matthew Dae Smith, AP Photo: Matthew Dae Smith, AP Image 1 of / 9 Caption Close Michigan man celebrates Christmas with wife in nursing home 1 / 9 Back to Gallery\nCHARLOTTE, Mich. (AP) — A 90-year-old Michigan man dressed up as Santa and brought Christmas to a local nursing home so his wife could celebrate the holidays.\nDon West sang carols as a guitarist strummed along during a holiday party at Golden Days II Adult Foster Care in Charlotte, The Lansing State Journal reported.\nHis wife, Jackie West, 86, has been in the home since she suffered her first stroke in 2017. Though she improved for a while, another stroke stalled the recovery process and she must now eat through a feeding tube.\n"I know there's going to be an end to it. I know that. And I'm prepared for that because I've had good times right now," Don West said. "Every day, I can tell her I love her, and she knows I'm talking and she responds. We communicate with hands and eyes."\nThe couple met at a dance more than 60 years ago.\n"I just fell in love right there," Don West said. "Never fell out of love since then."\nHe said that they still love to dance, even after 64 years of marriage.\n"I still dance with her. She'll be laying in bed, and I say to her, 'Jackie, now you and I are going to pretend we're dancing.' And I put my arms around her, and she grabs me right here," he said, pointing to his shirt near the top buttons.\nDon West hasn't missed a day visiting his wife and plans to spend an even longer visit with her on Christmas Day.\n"We've had a great life," he said. "And it's still going yet."}}
{{Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nFC United volunteers provided food, showers and new clothes for homeless people at their Moston ground on Christmas Day.\nThey bussed more than 40 people from the city centre to Broadhurst Park.\nAs well as food, there was a dentist, a hairdresser and people on hand to give medical advice.\nOne of those given support was Dean Jackson, 30, who has been living on Manchester’s streets for a few years.\nHe had a shower and was given new clothes and spoke about the pain of homelessness: “It’s horrible. People judge you, they don’t sit and talk to you, or ask you why you are there. They automatically judge, wrongly, and it’s not nice.”\nFC United, which was set up in 2005 in protest at the Glazer family’s takeover of Manchester United, said that so many people offered to volunteer that they had to turn some down.\n(Photo: Andrew Bardsley)\nThe volunteers included fans, players and club manager Karl Marginson.\nKarl told the M.E.N: “It’s about giving something back to people who are less fortunate than ourselves.\n“I’m very fortunate, I woke up this morning and went downstairs with my youngest lad and opened a couple of presents before I came up here.\n“It really hits home that there are lots of people who won’t be able to do that this morning.\n“It’s a way of helping out a bit, and help people feel better about themselves by giving them a good meal and opening up the showers.\n(Photo: Andrew Bardsley)\n“Now we have got our own facility, this is the first chance we have been able to put on something like this, and I’m sure it will be something we will do again.”\nFC United fans Rob Atkin, from Runcorn, and Matt Hamilton, from Blackley, were at the ground from 7am, dishing out breakfasts to people.\nMatt said: “People have been very grateful. We have had some people who didn’t want anything to eat, they just wanted someone to talk to. They have been very grateful and well mannered\n“It is shocking to see how many young people and vulnerable people who have come.”\nThe club says the event was such a success they are planning to run similar events in future.\nThe MEN has pledged to support and publicise the Manchester Homelessness Charter at appropriate opportunities.\nIf you are affected by issues surrounding homelessness in any way, or if you want to do something to help, you can go to: streetsupport.net}}
{{The cause of the fire remains unknown. (Source: Justin Hawkins/ WAVE 3 News)\nLOUISVILLE, KY (WAVE) - Fire officials are investigating a fire at a Harrison County sawmill.\nCrews were called to Sanders Sawmill on north Gethsemane Road in Corydon just before 4 a.m. Sunday.\nOfficials said no injuries were reported.\nDOWNLOAD OUR APPS\n+ News app: Apple | Android\n+ Weather app: Apple | Android\nHarrison Township, North Middletown, Heth and Ramsey Fire Departments responded to the scene.\nThe cause of the fire remains unknown.\nCopyright 2017 WAVE 3 News. All rights reserved.}}
{{An immigration officer was more than twice over the legal limit when she crashed into a telegraph pole near Gainsborough, a court has heard.\nVerity Cooper, 23, of Minster Road, Misterton, admitted drink driving at Mansfield Magistrates Court on Wednesday.\nThe court heard her Ford Focus was found by police on Fountain Hill, Walkeringham, at 1.15am on Sunday, August 7.\nA breath test revealed she had 94 microgrammes of alcohol in 100 millilitres of breath, when the legal limit is 35 microgrammes.\nShe told District Judge Jonathan Taaffe: “Stupidity led to this situation. There is no excuse.”\nWitnesses saw her car swerving before the crash.\nThe court heard she is likely to lose her job as a result of the offence.\nCooper was fined £500 and ordered to pay £85 court costs and a £50 victim surcharge.\nShe was banned from driving for 28 months.}}
{{Enjoy reading articles from MyWebPal? Subscribe for Updates Signup for our newsletter and get notified of new articles for free!\nEvery year I think about those that don’t get to gather with their families for the holidays. There are soldiers that cannot make it home. There are homeless people that are too embarrassed or proud to tell their families of their plight. There are nurses and pilots and retail workers and police officers and many others that will not get to participate in their family’s gatherings.\nIt is sad when a family member cannot come to a family gathering. It is horribly sad when a family member is told they’re not welcome. For example, if a gay man marries a man and he is told that he is welcome, but his husband is not, isn’t that effectively saying that the gay man himself is not welcome either? Furthermore, if that couple then have children, and the gay man is welcome, but not his husband, what then about the children? What are they to be told? Hatred doesn’t plan for the future very well.\nThis is a time of year for reconciliations and homecomings; a time for celebration and a time for forgiveness. Let that spirit consume you. If you are experiencing strife within your family, be the one that makes amends. Be the one that says “I’m sorry.” Make that call you’ve been meaning to make. Don’t let another day go without showing unconditional love for those in your family and beyond. Life isn’t meant to be as difficult as we make it.\nPlease like & share:}}
{{UK Monopoly champion reveals tips on how to beat your family\nGang beat man to the ground on his own driveway a\nHow to get a body like Kassidy Linde's!\nMcDonald's Monopoly is going virtual as players c\nGet daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nFamilies battling each other to win at Monopoly is as much of a Christmas tradition in the UK as turkey, mistletoe and carols.\nThe board game sees players aim to bankrupt their opponents by building up an impressive property portfolio and charging them rent whenever they land on property they own.\nIt can be a game of fun - but can also lead to arguments as players try to desperately outwit each other, and avoid going to jail.\nBut Mirror Online has the top tips from the UK's reigning Monopoly champion to help you beat your loved ones - and one of those includes avoiding the often coveted Park Lane.\nNatalie Fitzsimons, 26, from Northern Ireland, even beat her husband in the heats before winning the UK & Ireland championship title which she will now retain for four years.\nRanked sixth in the world, she shares her tips on how to play Monopoly and win.\n(Photo: PA)\n1. Mortgage yourself to the hilt\nMonopoly players move around the board buying up property sites - and developing them with houses and hotels while they collect rent from their opponents as they land on places they own.\nBut you only have a set amount of cash to spend from the outset - which often cuts short the dreams and aspirations of the most ambitious players.\nIt may be unrecommended in real life, but when it comes to Monopoly Natalie's mantra is "borrow, borrow, borrow".\nThe champ says you should do everything that you can - even if it means stretching yourself financially - to get your hands on as many of streets and then build houses on the board and start pulling in rents from other players.\nIt's better, she says, to have houses on one location picking you up big rents than lots of streets collecting lower amounts.\n"This always feels a little like cheating, but I never know why other people don't do it," she said.\n"As soon as you get a monopoly yourself, mortgage everything else and spend every penny on houses.\n"A monopoly with three houses on each square is far more valuable with lots of low-rent single property squares.\n"You can always 'un-mortgage' them later in the game."\n2. Don't bother with hotels\nYou wouldn't have thought it likely but yes you read that right - Natalie advises against buying ANY of the coveted red blocks.\nIt will come as a shock to many who set out from the start to get at least one on the board.\nBut Natalie advises rather to stop at three houses, as after this time "the amount the rent increases per house maxes out".\nSo instead of trying to go all out to get a hotel - it's better to build three houses elsewhere with your hard earned cash.\n3. Create a "housing shortage"\nNatalie admits this technique of stopping other players building by draining the available counters is sneaky - but it works for her.\nThere are only a certain number of green houses available in the pot for people to build with.\n(Photo: Monopoly)\nNatalie recommends that if you have any spare cash - and want to stop your competitors building houses which you might land on - then you can always "go for four houses in the hope they run out so other players can't buy them."\nWhen she plays she gets houses down as soon as she can. But she admits it's a key part of her strategy to create a deliberate "housing shortage."\n4. Stay in jail\nFor most people, a game of Monopoly is the closest we ever come to a spell in prison, when we land on the doomed spot sending players behind bars.\nThis probably explains why the minute we are forced to go straight to jail we can't wait to get out of it.\nEspecially as we have to go directly there - without going past 'Go' and collecting the much needed £200 - we feel like we have to get back "in it, to win it".\nBut that's not the approach Natalie recommends - especially towards the end.\nNatalie explains: "In the early game you want to get out of jail as soon as possible.\n"But once all the property squares have been bought sometimes the best thing is to wait patiently in jail.\n"At the later stages of the game, it's better to be behind bars so you can still collect but don't land on expensive squares."\nSo while you might feel like life - and the game - is passing you by, relax and enjoy your time behind bars, because as Natalie explains it simply "could be worse".\n5. Avoid Park Lane\nPossibly the most controversial bit of advice from Natalie involves one of the most sought-after spots on the board - and involves playing the odds.\nThe purple properties are highly-valued by many players - as you can charge others the most rent for landing on them.\nAnd as there are only two of them in a set (Mayfair and Park Lane) rather than three, it's easier to complete the set and kick off your house-buying here than elsewhere.\nBut statistically it's the location everyone is least likely to visit.\nAs Natalie cautions: "It may be prestigious but Park Lane is actually the square in the game landed on less than any other."\nThis is to do with where you have landed beforehand - seasoned players will notice that counters often move swiftly round that corner of the board, especially due to the number of Community Chest and Chance Card possibilities to launch you further.\n* Since the classic board game launched for sale more than 80 years ago, it has been licensed in more than 103 countries and printed in more than thirty-seven languages.\nAnd while the original is still the classic, there has been a recent trend towards more specialised versions.\nMakers Hasbro have now launched a new modern Monopoly Ultimate Banking version of the game (RRP: £22.99) for a ges eight and up - which features touch technology, doing away with the need for physical money and property cards.}}
{{JUST WATCHED Dramatic escape as migrant boat catches fire Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dramatic escape as migrant boat catches fire 00:43\n(CNN) We are in the midst of the WORLD'S WORST refugee crisis in history. A crisis that brings with it overwhelming numbers, huge challenges for countries and communities affected, untold misery -- and hope.\n65 MILLION people are More thanpeople are now counted as forcibly displaced by the United Nations. That's like the entire population of the UK or France, or about as many as everyone in New York state, Texas and Florida -- all forced from their homes. Just over one-third are refugees, people forced to flee their countries because of persecution, war, or violence.\nJUST WATCHED How are immigrants and refugees different? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How are immigrants and refugees different? 01:53\nCHILDREN are disproportionately affected -- more than half of refugees are under 18.\nMORE PEOPLE are displaced every day -- You could fill about 630 school buses with people forced from their homes. Every day.}}
{{While the inhumane treatment surrounding immigration in the U.S. has been laser focused on people of Latino and Hispanic heritage, the renewed enforcement of the Trump administration’s nationalist agenda has been having a horrific and violent effect on Black immigrants, too. And it could be getting worse.\nAn adult African immigrant who arrived in the U.S. when he was just 12 was beaten with sticks on Thursday night by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) “for resisting deportation” at JFK Airport in New York City, according to a press release from an advocacy group for undocumented Black people in America. Prince Gbohoutou, who is “an artist, a community member in Prince George’s County (MD) and is married to a U.S. Citizen,” was reportedly told he was being sent back to his native Central African Republic just weeks after being temporarily detained during a routine check-in with ICE.\n@ChrisVanHollen @SenatorCardin @RepAnthonyBrown call Baltimore ICE FOD and Tom Homan to demand the release of your constituent Prince Gbohoutou. He was taken to JFK airport last night but is now back in MD & we need your help now to keep him home. #WeStandWithPrince pic.twitter.com/0qgl1GvPO9 — UndocuBlack Network (@UndocuBlack) May 25, 2018\n“ICE’s attack on Prince last night at JFK falls in line with this country’s history of brutality against Black bodies for lack of compliance – weather perceived or real,” Jonathan Jayes-Green, Director of the UndocuBlack Network, wrote in an email Friday night. “It should never be normalized and we must call it out.”\nThe reported violence against Gbohoutou mirrors other allegations of abuse and human rights violations at various border sites and travel ports across the U.S., highlighting the growing intensity behind an all-out humanitarian crisis that has increasingly included Black people.\n“Growing communities of African refugees and immigrants at the border were seeing increased Immigration and Customs Enforcement presence and vapid displays of white supremacy and even instances of hate violence,” according to a recent report from the Black Alliance for Just Immigration (BAJI).\nThose instances of violence aren’t only restricted to adults, either. Not only have children of undocumented immigrants been separated from their families at the direction of Attorney General Jeff Sessions, many have also been “beaten, threatened with sexual violence and repeatedly assaulted while in custody,” according to Newsweek.\n“What has been happening over the last 10, 15 years is like, there’s been a shift in who’s crossing the border,” Benjamin N’dugga-Kabuye, Black Alliance for Just Immigration research and advocacy manager, told the Final Call this month. “Typically, we think of the U.S. southern border as crossed by predominately Mexican immigrants and usually that’s been the case for decades.”\nThere has especially been a surge of Black people traveling from other nations to Mexico in order to seek entry into the U.S.\n“People from the Caribbean make up the largest share of migrants entering the border Outside of Central Americans and Mexican migrants,” according to BAJI’s report. “Nearly 7,000 Haitian immigrants are now residing in several border towns in Mexico.”\nAbout 600,000 of the 11 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S. were Black, according to the most recent statistics by the Migration Policy Institute. That was a close second to the nation’s nearly 800,000 undocumented Latino immigrants.\nThe above statistics coupled with the reported violence against Gbohoutou suggest Black immigrants could be facing a worse fate than their non-Black counterparts — all for attempting to seek asylum in a nation that ironically was “founded” based on thievery by white colonizers who, like now, sought to rid the country of anyone who didn’t look like them.\nSEE ALSO:\nThe End Of DACA Affects Black Undocumented Immigrants, Too\nPresident Obama and A Legacy Of Hope For Black Immigrants\nWhat renewed border enforcement means for Black immigrants was originally published on newsone.com}}
{{Preparations are underway to reopen for classes 9 to 12 in Jammu from February 1 as directed by the Union Territory government.\n"We are preparing to follow all the Standard operating procedures (SoPs) and guidelines issued by the UT government before the re-opening of the school," informed Rameshwar Mengi, the principal of a school in Jammu.\n"We have urged the parents to provide the students with a sanitiser, water-bottle and tiffin-box as we won't be starting the canteen services," Mengi added.\nThe higher education institutions in Summer Zone areas of the Jammu Division will re-open from February 1 while the institutes in the Kashmir Division and Winter Zone areas of Jammu Division will open on February 15 after winter vacations.\nwere shut in the UT since the beginning of the lockdown imposed due to COVID-19 pandemic.\n(Only the headline and picture of this report may have been reworked by the Business Standard staff; the rest of the content is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)}}
{{Melania Trump, the US first lady who launched her "Be Best" campaign in May for improving social and emotional health of children, expressed her opinion on the immigration debate in the presidency of Donald Trump on Sunday, June 17, saying "she hates to see children separated from the families".\nMelania, who said on the occasion of launching 'Be Best' campaign that as a mother and the first lady, she was concerned over the children's vulnerability in expressing their emotions in today's fast-paced world which pushes them towards a negative consequence, reiterated her compassionate stand by speaking up on the immigration issue.\nThe first lady, who turned 48 recently, generally chooses to avoid political controversies that have often broken out in the times of President Donald Trump, responded to the snowballing outrage over separating children from their parents who illegally entered into the US crossing the country's southern border.\nMelania's spokesperson Stephanie Grisham said in the statement issued by her office: "Mrs. Trump hates to see children separated from their families and hopes both sides of the aisle can finally come together to achieve successful immigration reform."\n"She believes we need to be a country that follows all laws, but also a country that governs with heart."\nThe latest controversy over the immigration started after the Trump administration adopted a no-tolerance policy toward people entering the US illegally. While the illegal migrants were put to trial, their helpless children were separated from them and sent to a separate facility, making it extremely difficult for the kids.\nLawmakers and advocates and representatives of the religious communities have criticised this move by the current administration but it did not stop Trump to implement it last month. He even blamed the Democrats saying "that's their law" while saying that he himself hated to see children being taken away.\nFormer first lady Laura Bush, whose husband George W Bush was also a Republican president, wrote in an op-ed for The Washington Post on Sunday, slamming the policy as one which broke her heart. She was also of the opinion that zero-tolerance policy was no answer to the problem and described it as "cruel" and "immoral".\nShe agreed that the US's immigration system was not in the perfect shape but refused to back the policy that has been implemented to address it.\nPresidential advisor Kellyanne Conway also did not hide her condemnation for the policy of separating children from their parents during a recent appearance on NBC News.\nFor breaking news & Instant updates throughout the day}}
{{Every tech and toy company, from Apple to Hasbro, has an educational coding offering these days. Sony’s Koov kit has been kicking around Japan for a while now, and should be pretty familiar to anyone who’s spent time with Lego’s educational initiatives — it’s a set of blocks, sensors, motors and actuators that pair with a mobile app. Now Sony is ready to bring the kit to the U.S. — albeit in a pretty measured way.\nThe company is the latest tech giant to use a crowdfunding platform to test the waters. In this case, Sony will essentially be using Indiegogo to gauge customer interest and hopefully gain some insight into the U.S. market as it works to shape the product for a new region. On the face of it, it’s a bit of an odd move from a company with global reach that has never been afraid to launch into a new category with guns blazing.\nSony certainly has the resources to do so here, but for one thing, the market is still a little shaky. There are plenty of different kits aimed at teaching kids to code and build robots. Apple recently partnered with a handful of hardware makers to help teach its Swift programming language to youngsters, and Lego’s new Boost line joins a number of others already produced by the company. And then there are the dozens of startups fighting for a piece of the pie. How much of that pie there actually is to go around is still a pretty open question.\nKoov is also the first hardware product out of Sony’s Global Education wing, a department a company rep told me is “almost like a startup within Sony,” which implies a certain sense of autonomy and probably goes a ways toward explaining the cautious approach. It really wants to get its first product right, and it’s certainly put a lot of thought into the hardware and software side of things.\nThe kit’s currency is little, brightly colored translucent blocks. The company likens them to three-dimensional pixels, which is an attempt to make the transition between the mobile app and the real world product easier to understand. Kids can use the app to build 23 different pre-determined designs or “Robot Recipes” with the 302 block Advanced Kit. Of course, the sky is the limit if they think outside the box.\nTo appease those who blaze their own paths, there’s Robot Recipe Sharing, an online database of custom robots built by users. Uploads are vetted by the company for obvious reasons, given the product’s targeted 8 to 14 year old age range. Sony was super-psyched to show me one of the user-built robots created by a Japanese customer that was essentially a version of the company’s hippo that plays custom MIDIs of J-Pop songs. At the moment, it’s really just show and tell, and Sony doesn’t really have a good method for letting users create their own sharable robot building plans. That’s apparently in the works. All part of the aforementioned feedback process, I guess.\nThere are a few other roadblocks, as well. Price is the biggest red flag. Lego’s new Boost set starts at $160, while Koov’s suggested retail price is $359 for the Starter Kit and $499 for Advanced. That’s a lot of money for a brand that’s entirely untested in this space. Maybe the price will come down as the company scales up, though again, this is Sony we’re talking about here — it’s not exactly a startup with limited supply chain access.\nThen there’s the matter of the name. I was actually sorry I asked about that one. Apparently an executive came up with the bright idea to name the system Koov, for reasons that aren’t worth paraphrasing, so I’m going to paste the explanation here in its entirety, because it’s really something:\nThe logo imagery for KOOV calls to mind the 1’s and 0’s of binary code, or alternatively, “I/O,” the computer terminology for “digital input/output.” The logo is also inspired by the “” symbols used in mathematics. In addition, the “K” and “V” that bookend the kits’ name stand for “key” and “value”, important concepts in the realm of computer science. But whereas “key” and “value” ordinarily form a unique, unambiguous pair as applied in computer science, they are connected by “OO” -representing the infinity symbol (∞) -in the logo for KOOV. This is meant to suggest the infinite combinations possible with KOOV, limited only by the imagination. In a multitude of ways, KOOV’s logo is symbolic of its blocks that are a product of the digital age, and that are therefore infinite in potential.\nThe other issue is one that’s pretty prevalent among these devices. The coding and robotics skills that Koov teaches are pretty abstract. Unlike Apple, whose programs use the coding language used by iOS, macOS, watchOS, tvOS, Sony developed its own language for the toy. It’s built around the Scratch educational programming language, but the end goal here seems to more of building up that initial interest in coding, rather than developing concrete coding skills. Sony’s kit mostly teaches kids to code for Sony’s kit.\nThe same goes for the hardware, which is powered by a micro-controller based on Arduino. The potential for open-source learning is there, but in its current state, Sony seems to have the system pretty locked down. Perhaps that’s the kind of thing the company will work toward, with the proper feedback through its Indiegogo campaign. At the moment, however, there doesn’t seem to be a heck of a lot distinguishing Koov from a million other coding toys.}}
{{Not only did Waiheke woman Jane Scarles win $10,000 to spend on sports gear for a nominated school last week but she won rugby legend Dan Carter as well.\nThe former All Black visited the nominated school, Waiheke High, last week to hand over the cheque. He also took student rugby players through a warm-up routine and ball passing drills. To round off the visit, Mr Carter signed posters, shoes, rugby balls and T-shirts for a long queue of excited children, mums and dads.\nMrs Scarles landed the win for the school when she entered a Healtheries competition at Countdown Waiheke four months ago.\nThe prize for the competition was $10,000 to spend on sports gear for a nominated school to be presented by Mr Carter.\n“How wonderful to be in this situation,” principal Jude Young told visitors during the cheque presentation in the school hall.\nWhen competition sponsor Healtheries phoned the school to announce the win, her first thought was it was a prank, she said.\n“But not only did the school get the $10,000, they got a visit from Dan Carter.”\nMr Carter said after living in France it was special to be back in New Zealand.\n“It is good to be able to give back to our youth. Youth are our future. I always had a dream to play for the All Blacks and I was fortunate enough to do that. Hopefully, the $10,000 will help some of the children in this room to realise their dreams.”\nThe school’s sixth grade rugby team coach, Matt Jacomb, said Mr Carter’s visit was a huge boost.\n“It’s massive for the kids – especially for the future of rugby when a lot of younger guys are coming through. It’s good to have him here to emphasise the popularity of the sport to the school.”\nTold by Gulf News he seemed to genuinely enjoy himself practising rugby drills with students, Mr Carter said: “You seem surprised.”\n“You remind yourself you were there years ago, I had role models when I was a kid.\n“Now I’m in a fortunate position to give back.”\nProfessional rugby began in 1996 but the values were the same as they were in the days of former All Blacks such as Ian Kirkpatrick and Colin ‘Pinetree’ Meads, he said.\n“We are still learning but we’re getting some awesome athletes now. The game has changed so much since I started. There’s a huge emphasis on nutrition and looking after your body now.\n“Rugby players are getting faster, stronger, bigger.”\nHe was from a small community himself, he said.\nHis hometown of Southbridge near Christchurch had a population of only 700 when he was a schoolboy.\n“That’s why coming to little communities like this reminds me where I started.” • Mark Peters}}
{{More than 22,000 people were evacuated from a music festival in Barcelona after a fire broke out on the stage.\nThe blaze hit the Tomorrowland Unite festival on Saturday.}}
{{BROKEN ARROW, Okla. – A former Oklahoma teacher is behind bars following a lengthy investigation.\nIn May, the Broken Arrow Police Department told KJRH that they were investigating a former teacher accused of inappropriate behavior.\nOfficials say they were called to Aspen Creek Elementary School in May after learning about accusations of a teacher inappropriately touching a female student.\nAuthorities arrested Edward Hodge, a former fifth grade teacher, on four counts of lewd molestation on Tuesday.\nHodge, who was named the 2015-16 Aspen Creek Elementary ‘Teacher of the Year,’ is being held on a $200,000 bond.\n“Broken Arrow Public Schools is deeply troubled by the charges brought today against a former district employee. The employee was removed from the classroom as soon as allegations of inappropriate conduct were made, and the proper authorities were promptly notified. While everyone is innocent until proven guilty, the type of behavior alleged in this case is disgusting and we do not tolerate it. We have been cooperating with the Broken Arrow Police Department and other authorities, and we thank them for conducting a thorough investigation,” Broken Arrow Public Schools said in a statement.}}
{{Four people have been arrested after a fight broke out in the early hours of Christmas Day involving as many as 100 people.\nCoins were thrown at officers and a number of taxi drivers were reported to have been intimidated during the trouble in Woking, which lasted around an hour, Surrey Police said.\nPolice and dog units were sent to the scene in Chertsey Road after being called at around 3am, and four people were arrested on suspicion of public order offences.\nGoogle Maps Police and dog units were sent to the scene in Chertsey Road (pictured)\nSuperintendent Clinton Blackburn said: “Christmas Eve is a popular night for people to go out and socialise and the majority of party-goers have a good time and enjoy themselves. However, festivities soured during this unpleasant event which involved a large group of people fighting in the street.\n5 in custody Christmas Day after #Woking public order incident. Out partying overnight too? You may be able to help: https://t.co/DvtWxb9TqX — Surrey Police (@SurreyPolice) December 25, 2016\n“A number of officers and dog units were deployed to the scene in order to disperse the group from Woking town centre with the support of the NPAS helicopter. Officers quickly took a grip of the situation and worked hard to bring it under control effectively and safely, under challenging circumstances, which included having coins thrown at them, and by 4am the area had returned to normal.”\nPolice have appealed for anyone who may have filmed the fight on their phone to contact them and for witnesses to come forward.}}
{{How your festive lunch, and puddings, would look if the Public Health guidelines were followed\nFar from offering “all the trimmings”, the dish features no roast potatoes, just a sprout or two, a few pieces of broccoli and a baby carrot – it’s a state-approved version of our traditional yuletide meal.\nThis year PHE spent £40million of taxpayers’ money telling Britons what they can and cannot eat, drink and do in their leisure time.\nSo using those guidelines and warnings, the TaxPayers’ Alliance has calculated just what it would mean for our Christmas feast.\nFollowing nutritional guidelines set by the NHS, an adult male could enjoy just 125g of turkey tomorrow, a hint of gravy, a half-serving of boiled potatoes and a quarter of a bacon-wrapped sausage.}}
{{Although the talent agencies of Song Joong-ki and Song Hye-kyo refuted reports that the SongSong couple spent a week-long vacation in Bali, they failed to confirm that the Hallyu couple is not dating.\nOn Monday, the artist agencies that manage Hallyu stars Song Joong-ki and Song Hye-kyo emphasized that the SongSong couple did not spend time together in Bali. While Song Joong-ki’s agency Blossom Entertainment stressed that the Bali vacation was a getaway trip with his friends ahead of the Battleship Island premiere, Song Hye-kyo’s agency UAA released a statement that the actress was in the scenic tourist spot to discuss a project.\n“It is true she went to Bali but it was for a project meeting. We confirmed that she did not meet with Song Joong-ki,” UAA told Yonhap.\nActor Song Joong-ki’s agency went a step further to say that the Battleship Island star had no clue that Song Hye-kyo, too, was in Bali at the time. This statement has left a lot of SongSong fans stumped because it just seems a tad unlikely that the Descendants of the Sun actors who enjoyed each other’s company on and off the sets, and who, more often than not, claimed they were “very good friends” weren’t aware of each other’s whereabouts.\nMeanwhile, the SongSong shippers on social media are in denial. The loyalists, who spent a huge amount of time posting photoshopped images of the SongSong wedding, strongly believe that the actors’ agencies have refuted the Bali meet-up rumors for official reasons. Fans of Song Joong-ki and Song Hye-kyo still believe that the Hallyu couple will announce their engagement soon.\nAhh #SongSongCouple ????????\nOur Ninja Couple is really really Smart! It's ok if you don't want to tell us now ☺ We'll Patiently Wait for you ❤???? pic.twitter.com/BB2paM526z — SongSong Couple (@ImagineSongSong) June 20, 2017\nAmidst the Bali controversy, fans are also excited about Song Joong-ki’s upcoming Korean movie Battleship Island.\nThe actor, along with his other Battleship Island costars, landed yet another cover, starring on the Harper’s Bazaar July issue. Addressing a press conference on July 15, Song Joong-ki said it was an honor to work with Hwang Jung-min, So Ji-sub, and Lee Jung-hyun. The movie will be released in Korea on July 26. There’s no word yet on the U.S and Philippines release date. In Malaysia and Taiwan, the movie will hit the theaters on August 17 and August 18, respectively. In Thailand and Hong Kong, Battleship Island will premiere on August 3 and August 10, respectively.\n[Featured Image by Ahn Young-joon/AP Images]}}
{{click to enlarge USGS\nThe United States Geological Survey reported a 7.7-magnitude earthquake on Christmas in Chile.\nA strong Christmas Day earthquake rattled Chile on Sunday, registering 7.7 on the Moment Magnitude Scale, according to US seismologists, who warned that tsunamis are possible in some areas.\nThe US Geological Survey said the quake struck near the southern coast of the quake-prone South American nation at 1422 GMT.\nThe epicenter of the earthquake was 40 kilometers (25 miles) southwest of the town of Puerto Quellon.\nThe Pacific Tsunami Warning Center in Honolulu, Hawaii, said in a bulletin that "hazardous tsunamic waves are forecast for some coasts."\nThe quake had a depth of 15 kilometers (nine miles) according to the PTWC.}}
{{Vilonia School District Superintendent David Stephens said whether or not the proposed 5.7-mill property-tax increase is successful, it’s important to him that patrons have all the information on the proposed increase.\n“I want to be transparent,” Stephens said. “I don’t want at the end of the day for someone to say, ‘You didn’t tell us that part.’”\nPatrons will vote on the proposed millage increase in the Sept. 19 school election.\nA public meeting on the topic is scheduled from 7-8 p.m. Tuesday at the Frank Mitchell Intermediate School on Mount Olive Road.\nThe 5.7-mill property-tax increase would fund a three-phase $33 million construction project that includes a 1,200-seat auditorium and a larger cafeteria, a career and technical-education center and renovations to the high school. The cost includes furnishings and fees for Lewis Architects Engineers in Little Rock.\nThe district has received $4.2 million in state aid, Stephens said, leaving the district responsible for nearly $29 million.\nThe project is being done in three phases, Stephens said, to ease the burden on taxpayers. He said if all three projects were launched at one time, a much higher property-tax increase — 9 to 10 mills — would be needed.\nA 5.7-mill property-tax increase would cost patrons an additional $114 a year, based on a home with a $100,000 market value.\nThe district’s millage would increase from 39.9 to 45.6.\nThe last millage increase was five years ago. Voters approved a 1-mill increase by a 3-1 margin in the September 2012 school election to build the city’s intermediate school.\nThe first phase of the proposed project, which would start in fall 2017, would be the construction of an auditorium on the east side of the high school and almost doubling the size of the cafeteria. Phase I would also include moving the administrative offices in the high school so the library/media space could be enlarged.\nStephens said a $1.5 million state partnership grant was awarded to the district for the auditorium construction, but the district will lose the grant if construction doesn’t start in the fall.\n“The window to use that money is closing,” Stephens said.\nStudent parking would be moved to near the auditorium, freeing the current student parking space for the second phase, construction of a career-technical center on the west side of the high school, scheduled to start no later than fall 2021.\n“It’s kind of like chess, moving the pieces where they fit the best,” Stephens said.\nThe final phase, renovations to the high school, will include enlarging classrooms and improving existing science labs. That phase is scheduled to begin no later than 2026.\nStephens said all the projects are needed, but he is particularly excited about the opportunities students would have with the establishment of a career-technical center.\n“We just believe very strongly as a district that we need to put an emphasis on college and career readiness,” he said.\nAlthough public school traditionally makes a “push for college,” he said, “there’s also a group of kids [for whom] college may not be an option. They can be just as successful. We want to make what we do very relevant. It’s not college or career; it’s college and career.”\nStephens said district officials have met three times with representatives of Nabholz Construction to find out where the greatest area of growth is in that industry and what the needs are.\n“They said commercial construction,” Stephens said. “Nabholz is working on a curriculum for us to work with high school students for an entry into that field. I’m excited about the possibility about how that could grow into something.”\nBoard President Randy Sanders, who is in his 29th year on the board, said all three projects are important.\n“Actually, we could have used all these facilities a long time ago, but we just haven’t had the money,” he said.\n“If our tax base wasn’t so low, we would have asked for it a long time ago. There’s not a lot of industry. We don’t get the growth there, as far as businesses, as other towns do, and that’s a negative, and that’s why people have been real generous to support us.”\nSanders said he has been through several millage campaigns.\n“We only ask when there’s a need to help us move forward and educate the kids,” he said.\nTommy Bates, owner of Vilonia Therapy Services, said he supports the millage proposal.\n“As one of the reasons we came [to Vilonia] was for the schools, and another reason as a local business who wants to see the city continue to thrive, I’m all for it,” he said. “I think it’s the best asset we have as a town. I’d be all for doing something that enhances or empowers our school.”\nBates said he and his wife, Susan, have three children in the district: a 10th-grader, a seventh-grader and a fourth-grader.\nHe said the auditorium and career technical-education center “both just make sense.” He said the auditorium will help band and drama students, and the education center will help students by preparing them for life.\nVilonia Fire Chief K.C. Williams said he supports the proposal, too. He has two children in the Vilonia School District, one in junior high and one in middle school.\n“Anything we can do to better our school system and/or our community and offer more things is better economically for the town,” he said. “They’re all good projects.”\nStephens said Tuesday’s public meeting will be the second.\n“We had one in July at the high school, and we had about 30 people there. It was a good meeting. They asked good questions; they asked hard questions,” Stephens said. “We’ve received very positive feedback from people who were there.\n“As I’ve said, it’s not to convince them to vote for a millage or not vote for a millage, but at the end of the day, however it turns out, I want them to know what it’s all about.”\nSenior writer Tammy Keith can be reached at (501) 327-0370 or tkeith@arkansasonline.com.}}
{{The Queen has not attended church on Christmas Day because she is still suffering from a heavy cold.\nBuckingham Palace said she was staying indoors to help her recover but added that she would still participate in the family’s Christmas Day celebrations.\nPrince Philip, Prince Charles, Prince Harry and others attended church at the Queen’s Norfolk estate, Sandringham.\nThe Duke and Duchess of Cambridge went to church in Berkshire, where they are spending Christmas with the Middletons.\nNicholas Witchell, BBC royal correspondent, said the Queen’s absence from the church service – the first time she has missed the service “in many years” – is understood to be a “precautionary measure”.\nOur correspondent said there was “no sense of undue concern” from Buckingham Palace.\nBBC reporter Emilia Papadopoulos said about 3,000 people had waited for the royals at Sandringham – some from 06:00 GMT.\nShe said although there was “a lot of disappointment” among the crowds, Prince Charles and Prince Harry had both spoken to people after the service and most had left saying it had been “well worth the wait”.\nThe Queen and Prince Philip began their Christmas break this week one day late, postponing their trip because they were both suffering from colds.\nThey flew from Buckingham Palace to the Norfolk estate by helicopter on Thursday, having missed a train on Wednesday.\nA palace spokesman said: “Her Majesty the Queen will not attend church at Sandringham this morning.\n“The Queen continues to recover from a heavy cold and will stay indoors to assist with her recovery.\n“Her Majesty will participate in the Royal Family Christmas celebrations during the day.”\nPrince William and the Duchess of Cambridge are spending Christmas with the Middleton family in Bucklebury, Berkshire.\nThe Queen’s granddaughter Zara Tindall and her husband Mike did not attend the service.\nThey announced on Christmas Eve that they had lost their second baby.\nIn her annual televised Christmas Day address – to be broadcast at 15:00 GMT on BBC1, ITV, Sky News channel and BBC Radio 4 – the Queen will say she draws strength from “ordinary people doing extraordinary things”.\nVolunteers, carers, community workers and good neighbours are unsung heroes whose quiet dedication makes them special, she will say.\nShe will also praise the achievements of the UK’s Olympians and Paralympians.\n“Having discovered abilities they scarcely knew they had, these athletes are now inspiring others,” she will say.\nHer Majesty will also reflect on the achievements of the Duke of Edinburgh’s Award, which celebrated its 60th anniversary this year, and The Prince’s Trust, which was 40 years old in 2016.\nThe address was recorded before Her Majesty travelled to Sandringham.\n–\nSource: BBC}}
{{× The Chicago Way w/John Kass (12/23/17): A Christmas gift for all and RCP’s Tom Bevan reviews 2017\nThe Chicago Way w/John Kass, Episode 86: John Kass and Jeff Carlin are joined by co-founder and publisher of Real Clear Politics Tom Bevan with a look at the top politico stories of 2017 and preview the major storylines of 2018. Plus, Kasso presents “The Christmas Gift: A new hope.”\nhttp://serve.castfire.com/audio/3443435/3443435_2017-12-23-233235.64kmono.mp3?ad_params=zones%3DPreroll%7Cstation_id%3D4194.mp3\nFollow @John_Kass Follow @TomBevanRCP Follow @JPCarlin\nDownload this episode here by using ‘Save As’here>}}
{{"While our inquiry was focused only on the disbursement to Athlos," wrote audit manager Julie Wrigley, "we are concerned that the SCSB [State Charter School Board] processes have allowed and may continue to allow charter schools to receive funds and to operate without the proper contract agreements in place."\nThe report states that awarding funding before a charter agreement was executed violates the grant requirements, and "creates uncertainty regarding the extent to which charter school applicants are subject to laws and regulations" that protect public funding from abuse.\nThe auditor's office recommended that funding be withheld until charter agreements have been signed by all parties; that start-up grant applications be properly reviewed; and that the State Charter School Board consider recovering state funding if other violations are identified.\nWhile the audit focused on the procedures of the State Charter School Board, it follows complaints last fall by a former state lawmaker that Athlos Academy violates Utah's procurement code by leasing its location without a competitive bid process.\nThe charter school is operated by Athlos Academies, an Idaho-based education company, which built the Herriman facility and leases the space back to Athlos Academy of Utah for a monthly fee of $112,083.\nFormer Rep. Rich Cunningham said in November that the arrangement violates the spirit, if not the letter, of Utah's law by allowing a private entity to construct a school and reimburse itself with public education funding.\n"We're going to have to go back and change the law if they're going to play the games like that," he said.\nState Charter School Board chairwoman Kristin Elinkowski said in a written response that the board has already begun taking steps to address the issues raised in the audit.\n"Prior to the reception of this report we drafted a policy that will ensure schools are not funded without the signed and executed charter agreement," she said. "The board intends to adopt this policy at an upcoming meeting."\nThe Salt Lake Tribune will update this story as more information becomes available.\nbwood@sltrib.com\ntwitter: @bjaminwood}}
{{Migrants are seen queueing at a temporary shelter for refugees in the Austrian city of Kufstein\nAustria's defence minister has said the country is "not a waiting room for Germany" in his latest attack against Angela Merkel's 'open door' refugee policy.\nHans Peter Doskizil claims the chancellor's "welcoming" stance on refugees fleeing war torn parts of the Middle East is encouraging migrants from other countries who just want to relocate to Europe.\nHe said Merkel's famous “we can do it” approach to the refugee crisis is “irresponsible” and is leading to his country seeing a huge influx of migrants.\nDoskizil has accused EU superpowers of “burying their head in the sand” over the issue and has called for a "summit on deportation" to negotiate how to send the migrants back to their home countries.\nMore than one million refugees flocked to Germany last year, with many people welcoming them with open arms as residents held up "Refugees Welcome" banners for their arrival to the country.\nGetty A migrant covers himself with a blanket as he waits to cross the Austrian-German border at the Innbruecke bridge\nBut attitudes have taken a sharp turn since reports of the mass sex attacks in Cologne on New Year's Eve and a Syrian migrant blowing himself up at a music festival near Ansbach.\nDoskizil said: "It is a mystery to me, why the right lessons have not been drawn from the events in 2015.\n“The ‘we can do it’ policy is irresponsible and counterproductive as it harms Europe as a whole, including Austria.\n“Austria is not a waiting room for Germany.”\nThere have been more than 100,000 arrivals registered in Austria since the beginning of the year, according to the country's Defense Ministry experts.\nGetty German Chancellor Angela Merkel speaks during a news conference\nBut the majority of applicants are not coming from war-torn Syria, Iraq or Afghanistan, but from African countries with no active warfare, according to RT.com\nSome 20 percent of the asylum seekers stem from Nigeria, 12 percent from Eritrea, and 7 percent are made up of people from Gambia, Côte d’Ivoire, Sudan and Guinea.\nDoskozil also attacked Merkel's "we can do it" mantra to the refugee crisis, which has seen her popularity nose-dive in the polls as a YouGov poll found this month that 66 per cent of German's disagreed with the chancellor's approach.\nMr Doskozil added: “If there are tents for refugees at the heart of Milan (in Italy), no one can claim that we control the influx of migrants reasonably.\n"It is obvious that Chancellor Merkel's “We can do it!” policy only encourages migrants to come.”\nGetty Migrants wait to cross the Austrian-German border near the Austrian village of Kollerschlag\n"It is not a policy, if Europe stays here in agony and sticks its head in the sand."\nDoskozil - who was the head of Burgenland police when the region became an epicentre of the refugee crisis last year - was speaking almost a year to the day that 71 refugees were found dead in the back of a truck in Austria.\nThe disaster shocked Europe and led countries to open their borders to a massive influx of people fleeing war and poverty, mainly from the Middle East.\nBut now the shutters go down again, leading to a sharp drop in arrivals.\nThe European Union has since struck a controversial deal with Turkey to keep migrants from reaching Greece - the main entry point into the bloc, along with Italy.\nThe defence minister dismissed the plan, which would see the country take back immigrants in exchange for £2.5bn in aid, visa-free European travel for Turks and accelerated talks over EU membership.\nBut referring to the recent bungled military coup to overthrow President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Doskozil said: "The Turkish government is no longer to be taken seriously by the recent events, events and interventions yet.\n"From a visa liberalization with Turkey we are far away, because Turkey is far from European standards."}}
{{Patrons have morning coffee at a Starbucks in Washington on March 23, 2016. (Photo: Karen Bleier, AFP/Getty Images)\nStarbucks will hire 2,500 refugees to work in Europe by 2022, the Seattle-based coffee company announced Tuesday.\nThe jobs will be available in Great Britain, France, Austria, Switzerland, Spain, Portugal, Germany and the Netherlands.\nAs part of the announcement, Starbucks highlighted the story of Mo, an Iraqi refugee who worked as a translator for the U.S. Army in Iraq.\n“He’s one of the smartest people I’ve ever met," said store manager Cody Lane Rogers, who hired Mo earlier this year.\nThe company announced in March it was going to hire 10,000 refugees worldwide by 2022.\nTuesday is World Refugee Day.\n© 2017 KING-TV}}
{{'The EU is longstanding friend of the Philippine people and stands ready to assist during this difficult time,' says EU Ambassador Franz Jessen\nPublished 5:02 PM, December 24, 2017\nMANILA, Philippines – Amid a string of disasters in the Philippines during the Christmas season, the European Union condoled with Filipinos and said they are ready to come to the country's aid.\n"The EU is a longstanding friend of the Philippine people and stands ready to assist during this difficult time," said EU Ambassador Franz Jessen in a statement posted on EU Philippines' Facebook page on Christmas Eve.\nJessen said EU's help can come in the form of "humanitarian assistance or by use of our development fund."\nJessen extended his "heartfelt condolenses" to victims of disasters that happened in the last few days, including the storms Vinta and Urduja that killed hundreds and displaced tens of thousands, the fire at the NCCC Mall in Davao City where 37 are believed to have died, and the sinking of a vessel off Quezon province that killed at least 6.\nBelow is his full message:\nMahal kong mambabasa,\nIt was with great sadness that I, during the past week, saw the devastation and loss of lives caused by Vinta, Urduja, the fire at the NCCC in Davao and the sinking of the Quezon ferry. The sadness is felt even more deeply as the tragedies all took place at a time where families were preparing to join each other to celebrate Christmas - a time of traditional peace and joy.\nOn behalf of the EU Delegation I would like to extend my heartfelt condolences to the families who have lost loved ones or have suffered in other ways during these calamities.\nThe EU is longstanding friend of the Philippine people and stands ready to assist during this difficult time: by humanitarian assistance or by use of our development funds, that can help to create an even more resilient country.\nBack in May, the Philippines said it would no longer accept new EU grants, pegged at around 250 million euros or P13.85 billion.\nMonths later, in October, Foreign Secretary Alan Peter Cayetano said the government would reject all international aid that would come with "conditions."\nThis came after President Rodrigo Duterte, angered by criticism by EU officials of his war against drugs, dared both the EU and United States to withdraw their aid from the Philippines, emphasizing that his country would not "beg" for the assistance. – Pia Ranada/Rappler.com}}
{{Ed Sheeran is the most popular artist at London City Airport\nLondon City Airport has become the first airport to play music to passengers as they go through security.\nTwo playlists, either ambient electronica or upbeat acoustic music, are broadcast throughout the day, with songs by famous artists including Adele, Ed Sheeran, Ben Howard, Jason Mraz and Gavin James.\nMelanie Burnley, director of customer experience at London City Airport , said: “It takes passengers just 20 minutes or less to get from the front door of London City Airport to the departure lounge, and we wanted to enhance the customer experience with a soundtrack to security.\n“So far we’ve had a very positive reaction to the musical addition, from staff and passengers alike, with Ed Sheeran currently the most popular artist.”\nMusic psychologist Dr Stephanie Bramley said the background music may have a positive impact on passengers and create an appropriate atmosphere for security searches.\nShe said: “Music is a flexible resource which can be used to serve a number of functions in retail and commercial environments.\n“In an airport, playing music which is subtle, fits in with the overall ambiance of the security search area, deemed to be familiar, and liked by passengers, might act as a positive distraction where passengers focus on the music instead of the time spent completing the security search process.\n“The music at London City Airport may also enhance passenger experience by helping to create a pleasant environment and potentially improving their mood.”\nTo coincide with the airport’s introduction of music during security, the airport has created a special playlist:\nThe top 13 air travel-inspired songs according to London City Airport\nBrian Eno – Ambient 1: Music for Airports\nJoni Mitchell – This Flight Tonight\nJohn Denver – Leaving on a Jet Plane\nRed Hot Chili Peppers – Aeroplane\nFrank Sinatra – Come Fly With Me\nIggy Pop – The Passenger\nDaft Punk - Around the World\nMIA – Paper Planes\nMadonna – Holiday\nRandy Crawford – One Day I’ll Fly Away\nLenny Kravitz – Fly Away\nSimon and Garfunkel - Homeward Bound\nVengaboys – We’re Going To Ibiza\nFollow The Wharf on Twitter @the_wharf\nKeep up to date with all our articles on Facebook}}
{{More than half of the UK’s grandparents are planning to look after their grandchildren over the next few weeks, according to a recent survey.\nA poll of more than 8,000 over-50s shows that one in eight grandparents will look after grandchildren once a week over the school summer holidays, with a further one in eight will be on childminding duties twice per week.\nHowever, one in twenty grandparents say they will be hosting their grandchildren three days a week while school is out for the summer, according to the research by Saga Car Insurance.\nAnd it’s not just their time that will be donated - one in five say they will spend well over £200 keeping the children occupied. Days out to the beach (77 per cent) and on shopping trips (35 per cent) are the most popular distractions, although some grandparents are even taking their grandchildren on a holiday either in the UK (14 per cent) or abroad (5 per cent).\nGrandparents in the North East are the most likely to babysit grandchildren over the school summer holidays, while those in the East Midlands are least likely to.\nThe Scots are most likely to spend big on their grandkids, with one in four expecting to spend more than £200 during the school holiday period.\nSue Green, Head of Saga Car Insurance, commented: “It looks as though children are in for an action-packed summer which is full of adventure if nan and granddad are in charge over the next couple of weeks. Grandparents really are generous giving up their time and money to help with childcare over the summer holidays and I’m sure they are really looking forward to spending some quality time with their grandchildren.”}}
{{OTTAWA — On a day when newly released data showcased in tangible numbers the stark realities of the growing global refugee crisis, the United States — long considered a haven for the oppressed — doubled down on anti-migrant rhetoric while Canada struck a decidedly cautious tone.\nThe annual Global Trends report from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees was released Tuesday, showing the worldwide total number of displaced people reached a record 68.5 million last year, due to global wars, violence and persecution.\nIn 2017 alone, more than 16 million people were newly displaced.\nThe statistics also show Canada became the ninth-largest recipient of asylum seekers, more than doubling the number of claims in a single year at 47,800.\nAnd for the first time in five years, the United States became the largest recipient of new asylum applications with more than 330,000 claims lodged in 2017 — a 27 per cent jump from the year before.\nBut U.S. President Donald Trump made it clear Tuesday that asylum seekers who cross the U.S.-Mexico border illegally are not welcome in America.\nIn a speech Tuesday, Trump accused many of these migrants of being child and human smugglers who try to “game the system,” invoking references to the notorious international criminal gang MS-13 attacking children with knives, not guns, “because it’s much more painful.”\n“And we’re allowing these people into our country? Not with me. We’re taking them out by the thousands,” Trump said.\nThe Trump administration has come under fire for its so-called zero-tolerance policy, in which asylum seekers who cross illegally into the U.S. are charged with federal crimes and separated from their children. The children are being detained in guarded, fenced enclosures, prompting widespread condemnation and protest.\nPrime Minister Justin Trudeau has been called upon to lend his voice to the chorus of condemnation, but so far Trudeau has demurred.\nOn Monday he would only say he would not “play politics” on the issue, and he did not attend question period in the House of Commons on Tuesday.\nImmigration Minister Ahmed Hussen and Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale largely repeated comments made Monday, in which they said they found the images of children being torn from the arms of their parents and kept in cage-like detention areas “troubling.”\nTransport Minister Marc Garneau went a step further, saying the situation involving child migrants in the U.S. is ”simply unacceptable.”\nBut it wasn’t far enough for NDP immigration critic Jenny Kwan. She wants Trudeau to “state the obvious – that the United States is no longer a safe country for migrant children.”\n“Canadians are calling for action. It is about lives, real lives, real people, real children being subjected to torture,” she said.\n“Canada must not be complicit in this inhumane treatment of children. Will the prime minister find the courage and suspend the safe third country agreement?”\nHussen repeated that Canada is monitoring the changes in U.S. immigration policy and what effects it will have on asylum seekers in the United States.\nConservative immigration critic Michelle Rempel, who formerly has been critical of the Trudeau government’s approach to irregular border crossers in Canada, seemed to support this more measured approach Tuesday.\n“The safe third country agreement when it was negotiated included very strict objective criteria that are constantly monitored by government to ensure that the U.S. remains a safe third country,” she said.\n“I think it’s very important for us as a country to make that determination based on that objective criteria rather than political media reports.”\nAntonia Rodriguez, a delegate of the UN Refugee Agency and an advocate for child refugees and the rights of children, says the U.S. child migrant policy is “inhumane.”\n“Being inside a family and being separated and caged, it’s terrible. It cannot be accepted by the international community and we have to do something,” she said.\nShe believes Canada should explore the possibility of taking more refugees than it currently accepts.\nGlobal trends indicate that new, more collaborative solutions are needed to ensure countries and communities aren’t left alone to deal with influxes of migrants, said Filippo Grandi, UN High Commissioner for Refugees.\n“We are at a watershed, where success in managing forced displacement globally requires a new and far more comprehensive approach,” he said.\n“No one becomes a refugee by choice, but the rest of us can have a choice about how we help.”\nMeanwhile, the Trump administration announced late Tuesday it was withdrawing from the United Nations Human Rights Council due to an alleged bias against Israel — this move coming just one day after the human rights chief of the council called the U.S. child migrant policy “unconscionable.”}}
{{The Baker-Polito administration awarded Assabet Valley Regional Technical High School $281,000 in a Skills Capital Grant for the Culinary Arts Program.\nThe grant will enable the school to expand the number of students who can study in the culinary arts program, as well as modernize equipment to better meet local market demand. The new equipment will help prepare students for careers in the food-service industry.\nTo date, Assabet has received $1.7 million in grant funding. The first grant provided $213,000 to purchase and construct the greenhouse to support curriculum development, lab experiments and project-based learning opportunities for biotechnology, culinary arts and science departments.\nIn June 2017, Assabet received a second grant award of $244,510 also in support of the greenhouse. In October 2017, a third grant award was received of $499,388 in support of the Advanced Manufacturing program to purchase and update the program with 16 new CNC/Manual Lathes. In March 2018, a grant of $497,000 was received through this same program for the support of advanced manufacturing, metal fabrication/welding.}}
{{Christmas celebrations hamper Nina evacuation\nA powerful typhoon is on its way to slam into the eastern part of the country on Christmas Day as officials struggled to divert people’s attention from family celebrations and travel. A provincial governor offered roasted pigs to entice villagers to move to emergency shelters.\nTyphoon Nina (Nock-Ten) packed maximum sustained winds of 185 kilometers (114 miles) per hour and gusts of up to 255 kph (158 mph), and was expected to smash into the island province of Catanduanes Sunday night. It’s then forecast to blow westward across the southern portion of the main Luzon island and pass close to the capital, Manila, on Monday, before exiting into the South China Sea. Nina may weaken after landfall and hitting the Sierra Madre mountain range in Southern Luzon.\nHeavy rainfall, destructive winds and battering waves were threatening heavily populated rural and urban regions, where the Philippine weather agency raised typhoon warnings. Officials warned of storm surges in coastal villages, flash floods and landslides and asked villagers to evacuate to safer grounds.\nBut Christmas is the biggest holiday in the country, Asia’s bastion of Catholicism, giving officials a hard time getting people’s attention away from the holidays to heed the warnings. With many refusing to leave high-risk communities, some officials said they decided to carry out forced evacuations.\nIn the past 65 years, seven typhoons have struck the country on Christmas Day, according to the government’s weather agency.\nGov. Miguel Villafuerte of Camarines Sur, which is on the typhoon’s forecast path, offered roast pigs, a popular Christmas delicacy locally called “lechon,’’ in evacuation centers to entice villagers to move to emergency shelters.\n“I know it’s Christmas … but this is a legit typhoon,’’ Villafuerte tweeted on Christmas Eve. “Please evacuate, we’ll be having lechon at evacuation centers.’’\nCamarines Sur officials targeted about 50,000 families – some 250,000 people – for evacuation by Saturday night, but the number of those who responded was far below expectations.\nIn Catanduanes province, Vice Gov. Shirley Abundo said she has ordered a forced evacuation of villagers, saying some “are really hard-headed, they don’t want to leave their houses because it’s Christmas.’’\n“We need to do this by force, we need to evacuate them now,’’ she told ABS-CBN television.\nThe Department of Social Welfare and Development, which helps oversee government response during disasters, said only about 4,200 people were reported to have moved to six evacuation centers by Sunday morning in the Bicol region that includes Camarines Sur. She expects more people to heed evacuation orders as the weather begins to deteriorate.\n“It’s difficult to force celebrations when our lives will be put at risk. Please prioritize safety and take heed of warnings by local government units,’’ welfare official Felino Castro told The Associated Press by telephone.\nHe said food, water and other emergency supplies had been pre-positioned in areas expected to be lashed by the typhoon. His department was to activate an emergency cluster composed of the military, police, coast guard and other agencies Sunday to oversee disaster-response plans. (AP)\nRelated\ncomments}}
{{Olympic Buildings To Be Disassembled Like Puzzles For Public Parks and Schools\nOlympic Buildings To Be Disassembled Like Puzzles For Public Parks and Schools News\nWorld by McKinley Corbley\nThe 2016 Rio Olympics have taken its toll on the city’s struggling infrastructure, but the Olympic Committee is taking strides to ensure more efficient social and environmental responsibility by reusing the buildings typically abandoned after the games.\nMORE: Colombians Are Building Houses Made of Wasted Plastic—Shaped Into Huge Lego Bricks\nAECOM, an engineering consulting company that created the master plans for the Olympics has mapped out the event’s “legacy mode” – also known as the plans and processes of cleaning up once the games are over.\n“With the legacy vision already in place, the strategy was always to create world‑class sports facilities that would not languish unused after the Games,” says Bill Hanway, AECOM’s Global Sports Leader on the buildings. “This meant looking hard at the business case for each stadium. If it didn’t have a clear role post-Games, it became a temporary venue, with its constituent parts designated for reuse.”\nRELATED: Businessman Gives $18 Mil to Restore DC’s Lincoln Memorial, His 4th “Patriotic Gift”\nNow that the games have ended, construction crews will start the deconstruction of the building for better use.\nThe handball venue known as the Future Arena will be used to build four 500-student primary schools in the city’s Jacarepaguá neighborhood while the $38 million Aquatic Stadium where Michael Phelps dominated his races will go towards creating two community swimming centers.\nCHECK OUT: Solar-Powered Retreat in New Zealand Built For Only $75,000\nThe International Broadcast Center will become a high school dormitory for gifted athletes; the peninsula that featured several game venues will become host to public parks and private development; and the Tennis Center and souvenir shop can simply be disassembled for better use.\nNot only are nomadic buildings better for the city’s infrastructure, but they’re also cheaper to build and more environmentally friendly since they don’t require permanent design and materials.\nBuild Positivity In Your Friends Lives, Click To Share – Photo by Around The Rings 1992}}
{{Gov. Jay Inslee is authorizing $200,000 in emergency funding for the Northwest Immigrant Rights Group to give civil legal aid for people, families and unaccompanied minors.\nOLYMPIA — Washington Gov. Jay Inslee Wednesday morning announced he will boost funding for immigrant legal aid in light of the new federal policy that is separating immigrant children from their undocumented parents.\nInslee is authorizing $200,000 in emergency funding for the Northwest Immigrant Rights Group to give civil legal aid for people, families and unaccompanied minors, according to a news release.\n“The horrific separation of children from their parents at our southern border is just the latest in an ongoing effort by the president’s administration to terrorize immigrant families and those seeking asylum or refuge,” Inslee said in a statement. “Everyone is entitled to a fair and due process, and this funding will help make sure Washington is doing everything it can to protect that system of justice for all.”\nThe Washington Legislature this year had already approved $1 million in grants for the program, so Inslee’s move will bring the total to $1.2 million. The governor is expected to make further remarks at a news conference Wednesday afternoon.\nInslee’s announcement comes as outcry builds over the U.S. Department of Justice’s recent “zero tolerance” immigration crackdown. As part of that, undocumented children are being taken from parents detained after crossing the southern border.\nOn Tuesday, State Attorney General Bob Ferguson announced he was seeking information from Washington residents being asked to host immigrant children separated from their families.\nMeanwhile, President Donald Trump said Wednesday he would sign an executive order later Wednesday that would end the separation policy.\nMore than 2,300 minors were separated from their families at the border from May 5 through June 9, according to the Department of Homeland Security.}}
{{The total number of schools with the studies in Azerbaijani language reaches 120 in Georgia, Report's local bureau informs citing the Georgian Center of Information System on Education Management of the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport.\nIt was noted that 80 of these schools hold studies in Azerbaijani language. The rest 40 schools have a section in Azerbaijani.\nThe number of Azerbaijani-language sections in Georgia's public schools has grown over a year earlier. Thus, according to the information provided by the Center last year, the number of Azerbaijani sections made 38.}}
{{Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nFor many people Christmas dinner with all the trimmings is the highlight of the festive season.\nCrispy roast potatoes, pigs in blankets and of course a traditional turkey is adored by millions of us on Christmas Day.\nIf you or a loved one has been slaving away in the kitchen all morning to get the festive feast on the table, why not show off your plate with a photo?\nLet's face it, Instagram is likely to be bombarded with social media foodies over Christmas.\nYou can email your Christmas dinner selfies to surreylive@trinitymirror.com or leave them on our Facebook page.}}
{{Bellator flyweight champion Ilima Lei-MacFarlane is featured in the official music video for the new song Don’t Call Me Angel by pop stars Ariana Grande, Miley Cyrus and Lana Del Rey.\nIn the video for this song, which will serve as the lead single on the soundtrack for the new Charlie’s Angels movie, MacFarlane can be seen walloping Cyrus with a wrecking ball of a right hand.\nSee it below:\nIlima-Lei MacFarlane detailed this awesome experience on her official Instagram account, calling the right hand she planted on Miley Cyrus “the most memorable punch” of her career.\n“So this one time I got to punch [Miley Cyrus] in the face for her music video, ‘Don’t Call Me Angel’ with [Ariana Grande] and [Lana Del Rey]. I can’t post it because of copyrights, but you can YouTube it and see my split second of video girl fame. P.S. she took it like a G. And she also got to return the favor. Most memorable punch of my fight career, no joke.” – Ilima-Lei MacFarlane on Instagram.\nIlima-Lei MacFarlane is a perfect 10-0 as a pro fighter. In her last fight, she defended her Bellator title with a doctor stoppage win over Veta Arteaga. In her next most recent appearance, she defended her belt with a submission of Valérie Létourneau.\nAt present, she doesn’t have a fight booked, but with Bellator plotting an imminent return to her native Hawaii, we can probably expect to see her back in the cage soon, where she’ll be looking to dish out more of the punishment she served Miley Cyrus.\nThis article first appeared on BJPENN.COM on 9/13/2019.}}
{{WASHINGTON (WCMH) — White House officials are denying a New York Times report that President Donald Trump spoke about immigrants in a demeaning fashion during a meeting with top administration officials in June, CNN reports.\nThe Times cited two unnamed officials who reported the president said people coming from Haiti “all have AIDS,” that recent Nigerian immigrants would never “go back to their huts” in Africa, and that Afghanistan is a terrorist haven. The president was reportedly referring to a document that listed how many immigrants had received visas to enter the United States in 2017.\nThe Times reported John F. Kelly (chief of staff), Rex Tillerson (secretary of state), and Stephen Miller (domestic police adviser) were all present at the meeting.\nWhite House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders denied the reports Saturday.\n“General Kelly, General McMaster, Secretary Tillerson, Secretary (of Homeland Security) Nielsen and all other senior staff actually in the meeting deny these outrageous claims,” she said. “It’s both sad and telling The New York Times would print the lies of their anonymous ‘sources’ anyway.”\nSeveral other participants in the meeting told the Times they did not recall the president using those words.}}
{{The 21 Nigerian “Chibok girls” who were released by Boko Haram in October have reportedly rejoined their families for Christmas.\nAccording to BBC, it is the girls’ first time to return home since their abduction by the Islamist group from their school in Chibok.\nThe report said that the girls have been held in a secret location for debriefing by the Nigerian government ever since they gained their freedom.\nThe young women, the report said, were freed after Switzerland and the International Red Cross made a deal with the terrorist group.\n“I never knew that I would return [home]…. I had given up hope of ever going home,” one of the girls Asabe Goni, 22 was quoted as saying, as she helped her mother prepare for Christmas.\nAdvertisement\nGoni said she was excited to go to church on Christmas day.\nAt least 21 of the Chibok schoolgirls kidnapped by Boko Haram were released in October.\nAnother 197 remain in captive.\nThe abduction of 276 school girls in 2014 and the government’s failure to quickly free them caused international outrage and brought Boko Haram, Nigeria’s homegrown Islamic extremist group, to the world’s attention. Dozens of the girls escaped on their own, but most remain missing.\nIn May, one of the girls, Amina Ali Nkeki, escaped on her own. Shortly after her release, Nkeki told her family that some of the kidnapped girls died of illness and that other, like her, have been married to fighters and are pregnant or already have babies.}}
{{A tall, glittering tree erected outside a shopping centre in Baghdad could be considered an incongruous display of Christmas festivity in mainly-Muslim Iraq. But the 7-metre-high tree at Sama Mall in the south east of the capital, adorned with tinsel, stars and bells, is one of a number of decorations put up by residents and business owners in solidarity with the country’s Christian minority.\nMuslim businessman Yassir Saad has spent around £19,000 on a huge artificial tree to help Iraqis “forget their anguish” over the war against Isis.\nThe 85-foot decoration is on display in a Baghdad theme park. Visitor Saba Ismael said it “represents love and peace”. “I wish all Iraqi Christians could return to Iraq and live normal and peaceful lives,” she said.\nIraq’s small Christian community has been persistently persecuted since the US-led invasion of the country in 2003.\nIraqi policemen cordon off the Virgin Mary church in the Karrada neighbourhood of the capital Baghdad and check people as they arrive to attend a Christmas mass ( Getty )\nExtremists marked Christian houses in Mosul – Iraq’s second-largest city and an Isis stronghold since 2014 – with the Arabic equivalent of the letter “N”, for the derogatory term Nazarene, and issued threatening ultimatums to leave the city or face death or forced conversion to Islam.\nAmmar Hussein, a member of staff at Sama Mall in Baghdad’s busy shopping district Karrada, which has a significant Christian minority, said that Muslims from many walks of life had been buying Christmas trees and other seasonal products.\nIraqi Assyrians, Christians & Muslims celebrate Christmas at Nakheel Mall, #Baghdad by performing Assyrian traditional dance. pic.twitter.com/OF4RCzO8HY — Zaid Benjamin (@zaidbenjamin) December 23, 2016\n“Muslims love to share this holiday season with their compatriots,” he said, adding that injustices towards the country’s Christians “are not caused by Muslims but by those who hate Iraq”.\nA married Muslim couple said they were buying a small Christmas tree and some gifts because they chose to celebrate Christmas “like the rest of the Islamic holidays”.\n“This is the most joyful time of the year,” they said. “We do not need proof of coexistence. We are one people.”\nChristians in a recently liberated town near Mosul celebrated Christmas this year for the first time since 2013.\nHundreds of Iraqi worshippers still living in exile travelled to the main church in Bartella, an Assyrian Christian town just 13 miles east of Mosul, on Christmas Eve.\nIraqi Christians celebrate liberation from Isis\n10 show all Iraqi Christians celebrate liberation from Isis\n1/10 Iraqi Christians celebrate liberation from Isis An Iraqi Christian prepares for the first Sunday Mass at the Church of the Immaculate Conception in Qaraqosh Reuters\n2/10 Iraqi Christians celebrate liberation from Isis Iraqi priests hold the first Sunday mass Reuters\n3/10 Iraqi Christians celebrate liberation from Isis Iraqi Christian soldiers attend the first Sunday mass at the Grand Immaculate Church since it was recaptured from Islamic State in Qaraqosh Reuters\n4/10 Iraqi Christians celebrate liberation from Isis An Iraqi Christian soldier holds his weapon during the first Sunday mass Reuters\n5/10 Iraqi Christians celebrate liberation from Isis An Iraqi Christian soldier lights a candle Reuters\n6/10 Iraqi Christians celebrate liberation from Isis Iraqi priests hold the first Sunday mass at the Grand Immaculate Church since it was recaptured from Islamic State Reuters\n7/10 Iraqi Christians celebrate liberation from Isis Iraqi priests hold the first Sunday mass Reuters\n8/10 Iraqi Christians celebrate liberation from Isis Reuters\n9/10 Iraqi Christians celebrate liberation from Isis Reuters\n10/10 Iraqi Christians celebrate liberation from Isis Reuters\n“It is a mix of sadness and happiness,” Bishop Mussa Shemani told Reuters. “We are sad to see what has been done to our holiest places by our own countrymen, but at the same time we are happy to celebrate the first Mass after two years.”\nBartella is still in a war zone, and armed guards surrounded the church. Most of the surrounding houses have been destroyed, and the worshippers arrived in a convoy of buses under heavy guard. Many more were unable to make the trip.\nThe church in Bartella was defaced by Isis militants, but worshippers have been able to return (REUTERS/ Ammar Awad )\nChristians are not the only religious group to be persecuted by Isis. In August 2014, extremist fighters attacked the town of Sinjar in northern Iraq as part of their campaign to eradicate the Yazidi people and “purify” the region of non-Islamic influences. The group continue to suffer abominable human rights abuses, condemned by the United Nations as genocide.}}
{{By Dillon Thomas\nDENVER (CBS4) – With Christmas morning only hours away, many Coloradans rushed to local outlets to do last minute shopping.\nCherry Creek Shopping Center was one of the busiest shopping malls in Denver, with thousands filing in on Saturday.\n“It is the calm before the storm, I guess,” said Michael Licata, a last minute shopper.\nLicata was just one of many who waited until the night before Christmas to do their holiday shopping.\nOthers, like Keturah Dixon, said they purposefully were waiting until the last minute to buy items.\n“Here at the mall, you actually have a lot more freedom to roam around,” Dixon said. “It’s more mellow. I’ve actually seen the stores more crazy.”\nThough Dixon enjoyed the hustle of last minute shopping, she said her presence at Cherry Creek was partially due to online shopping falling through.\n“(Companies) tell you you can order it by a certain time, and you will get it before Christmas,” Dixon said. “But, then you won’t end up getting it (on time.)”\nLicata said, though the lines were annoying, he had no other option but to partake in the chaos. Licata spent the previous days before Christmas traveling with his wife and kids.\n“We had literally two days to get (shopping) done. We took care of the kids yesterday. And today, it is one for her, one for me,” Licata said.\nLicata said the deals right before Christmas were the most appealing part of shopping late. However, he said those deals often influenced him to shop for himself.\n“That is the hard thing. Sometimes I walk out with three of my bags, and one for them,” Licata said.\nCherry Creek officials told CBS4 their busiest day of the year actually comes after Christmas.\nA representative from the mall said the day after Christmas, this year being Monday, is by far the busiest. Those going to the mall after Christmas often are there to use gift cards they received, or to return the presents they didn’t like.\nDillon Thomas is a reporter at CBS4 and a Colorado native. He believes everyone has a story, and would love to share yours! You can find more of his stories by following him on Twitter, @DillonMThomas.}}
{{TORONTO — The well-known Toronto pastor who officiated Canada’s first legally recognized same-sex marriages is delivering his final sermon today.\nRev. Brent Hawkes, who is also known for officiating Jack Layton’s state funeral in 2011, is retiring after serving as senior pastor at the Metropolitan Community Church of Toronto for more than 40 years.\nIn 2001, the openly gay pastor married two same-sex couples using a legal loophole: the ancient Christian tradition of publishing the banns of marriage.\nAt the time, same-sex couples could not obtain marriage licences from municipal clerks, but the Ontario Marriage Act allowed couples to be granted a licence if their names were published and read out at church for three Sundays in a row.\nBut when the couples tried to have the marriages registered with the province, it refused.\nThe couples and the church sued, and the Ontario Court of Appeal eventually recognized their unions in a 2003 ruling that paved the way for same-sex marriage to be legalized across the country.\nHawkes was appointed to the Order of Canada in 2007 for his work advocating for gay rights.\nHe will be succeeded as senior pastor by Rev. Jeff Rock.}}
{{The legendary singer made the rare television appearance after one of the three finalist, pop-country singer Gabby Barrett, performed her take on the massive Journey hit "Don't Stop Believing".\nBarrett was happily surprised when it was revealed that Perry was in the audience to watch her performance. She declared, "Steve Perry! Oh my gosh, I love you so much! What an honor!"\nThe one of the judges for the rebooted show, Katy Perry, declared, "I cannot believe that Steve Perry of Journey is watching you sing 'Don't Stop Believin'.' I feel like he should be the one to give the critique."\nPerry then offered his opinion. He said, "She was amazing, that's my critique." Host Ryan Seacrest then asked him "What did you think? What did you feel? What did you see, Steve?"\nHe replied, "It was the most amazing version I've ever heard. I swear. It was beautiful, just beautiful. Thank you so much." and Barrett then told Perry, "It's an honor to sing it in front of you. It truly is." Watch her performance and Steve Perry's appearance - here.}}
{{Seth Meyers called out Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen on 'Late Night' after she dismissed demands that Trump end the policy that separates immigrant families.\nRead More}}
{{Francis, marking the fourth Christmas season since his election in 2013, also urged Palestinians and Israelis, facing renewed tension after a U.N. resolution condemning Israeli settlements on occupied land, to have the courage to put aside hate and revenge and "write a new page of history."\nHis traditional "Urbi et Orbi" (to the city and the world) message was linked by a common thread of war, violence and suffering at a time that should be defined by harmony and peace symbolized by the infant Jesus.\n"Peace to those who have lost a person dear to them as a result of brutal acts of terrorism, which have sown fear and death into the hearts of so many countries and cities," he told some 40,000 people gathered in St. Peter's Square.\nSecurity was heightened for the Christmas weekend in Italy and at the Vatican after Italian police killed the man believed to be responsible for the Berlin market truck attack while other European cities kept forces on high alert.\n"Today this message (of peace) goes out to the ends of the earth to reach all peoples, especially those scarred by war and harsh conflicts that seem stronger than the yearning for peace," he said, speaking in Italian from the central balcony of St. Peter's Basilica.\nHe called for peace in Syria, urging immediate assistance to the exhausted population of the city of Aleppo, which Syrian government forces recaptured last week after four years of devastating fighting with rebels.\n"It is time for weapons to be still forever (in Syria), and the international community to actively seek a negotiated solution, so that civil co-existence can be restored in the country," he said.\nFrancis, the first Latin American pope, also said Christmas should inspire everyone to help the less fortunate, including migrants, refugees and those swept up by social and economic upheavals.\n"Peace to the peoples who suffer because of the economic ambitions of the few, because of the sheer greed and the idolatry of money, which leads to slavery," he said.\nAt his Christmas eve Mass on Saturday, Francis said the feast had been "taken hostage" by dazzling materialism that puts God in the shadows.\nOn Sunday, he also called for an end to "fundamentalist terrorism" in Nigeria, a reference to Boko Haram, which has killed 15,000 people and displaced more than two million during a seven-year insurgency to create an Islamic state. .\nFrancis further appealed for an end to tensions between the government and opposition in Venezuela, for harmony in Colombia, which recently ended a civil war with FARC guerrillas, and an end to strife on the Korean peninsula and in Myanmar.}}
{{Pennsylvania Board of Education Chairman Resigns over Allegations of Past Sexual Relationships with Teens\nThe chairman of the Pennsylvania Board of Education has resigned after allegations by several women that he initiated sexual relationships with them when they were teens over 30 years ago.\nOn Tuesday, Larry Wittig, 68, a former rowing coach, said he “categorically” denied the allegations, reports the Times News, but on Thursday, Wittig said he had had sex with one of his accusers, though he denied he continued the relationship as she alleged.\n“Never have I ever in all my coaching had any kind of relationship with anybody that I coached, sexual or otherwise,” Wittig said, adding he had no “clue” why allegations against him would be made after three decades.\n“The last 48 hours for me have been turning my world absolutely upside down,” he said.\nAs the Inquirer reports, several of Wittig’s accusers say they met him in the early 1980s when they were members of the Harriton High School crew team in Lower Merion. Wittig was a member of the Vesper Boat Club, where the team practiced. – READ MORE\nLike Our News? Then Help Support Our Independent Journalism! $ Donation Amount: We can only deliver independent news & Intel with your support. Keep our unique voice alive. Donate Now Select Payment Method PayPal\nCredit Card\nBank Account Personal Info First Name * Last Name Email Address *}}
{{Chairman of the Geneva Centre: World Society Must Express Greater Solidarity for Refugees Worldwide\nGENEVA, Jun 20 2018 (Geneva Centre) - Dr. Hanif Hassan Al Qassim, Chairman of the Geneva Centre for Human Rights Advancement and Global Dialogue, has appealed to international decision-makers to express greater solidarity to destitute refugees from the Arab region and to work jointly to address the protracted refugee crisis.\nThe Geneva Centre’s Chairman made this call to action on the occasion of the 2018 World Refugee Day which is observed annually on 20 June. Dr. Al Qassim highlighted that there are more than 5 million refugees in the Arab region owing to the proliferation of conflicts and the rise of violent extremism in Syria, Iraq, Libya and Yemen. The efforts of Jordan and Lebanon in hosting and in providing assistance to refugees – that may add up to 25% of their own nationals – stand out as shining examples of countries driven by the principles of international solidarity and justice, Dr. Al Qassim remarked.\nIn relation to the situation in Europe, the Geneva Centre’s Chairman said the inflow of displaced people has been exploited by a populist tidal-wave fuelling xenophobia and in particular Islamophobia. Although the arrival of displaced people to Europe only add up to 0.2% of Europe’s population, human solidarity and justice are being frayed by the fear of the Other. The campaign of fear waged against migrants and refugees is bringing back the spectre of nationalism and chauvinism threatening international cooperation and peace over the long run, he observed.\nIn conclusion, Dr. Al Qassim appealed to countries in the West and in the Middle East to step up their joint efforts to eliminate the root causes which have fuelled extremism. Peace and stability in the Middle East need to be restored before refugees can safely return to their home societies. This calls for a radical political change of approach in problem solving in the region. The world society must express greater solidarity for refugees worldwide, he highlighted.}}
{{A Florida city fired a school resource officer for social media posts the police department deemed 'offensive, insulting, and derogatory.'\nJason King is appealing his April firing from the Gainesville Police Department.\nKing was a resource officer at an elementary school. An internal affairs report said King made wrote several derogatory Facebook posts about President Barack Obama and gays and lesbians.\nHowever he maintains that the offensive postings were on a page that neither showed his name nor his employer.\nKing told investigators he realized many posts were 'taboo' but he was 'creating an opportunity to have dialogue,' and that he disagreed with some of them.\n'I realize that the topics that I present are taboo and could have a negative effect on all of the classes and the members that I am actually a part of,' King is quoted in a GPD Internal Affairs Division report. 'I'm creating an opportunity to have dialogue, to have discussion...I could be an asset.'\nIn one posting he referred to former President Barack Obama as 'a coon' and in another implied that gay people are not 'saved' the same way Christians are.\nKing was fired as a result of the postings. He also faced disciplinary action last year for his social media activity according to the Gainesville Sun.\nHe was told at the time that he could lose his job if he continued. Investigators said King's posts made 'offensive, insulting, and derogatory statements' that undermined trust among officers and within the community.\n'The majority of a Police Officer's job functions include interacting with people of all races, national origin, religion and sexual orientation on a daily basis,' the report states. 'Officer King's actions contained offensive, insulting, and derogatory statements based on protected characteristics and was improper of him.'\nKing's attorney, Catherine Gleason, said he believes he was terminated without just cause.\n'He is seeking review of this multi-faceted investigation and his subsequent termination,' Gleason said in an email to the newspaper. 'Jason is hopeful that once the review is complete he will be able to return to work and continue serving a community that has always embraced him.'\nKing is appealing his firing and has a hearing June 25 and hopes to make his case to City Manager Anthony Lyons.\nKing was suspended with pay while the investigation was underway. He emailed the investigator links to nine YouTube videos, which were the source of the pictures.\nOn March 7 King met with the investigator. Gleason and a representative of the Fraternal Order of Police union also attended. King explained his interest in the videos.\nOne dealt with human trafficking in Libya of Africans. King blamed that on a power vacuum in Libya following the overthrow of Muammar Gaddafi in 2011\nThe post of the photo states, 'Here's y'all great black president slick and smooth talking y'all into believing that killing Gaddafi was right....'\nThe investigative report quotes King as saying he was disturbed by what was presented in the video, including beatings, killing and torture.\n″...these are the things that anger me. So my expression out of an emotion is what I expressed,' King is quoted as saying.\nAnother post shows the picture of a woman with the caption, 'it's not about gay to straight; it's about lost to saved.'\nKing told the investigator he shared the post to show support for a woman who was once 'living a homosexual lifestyle' but returned to heterosexuality.\n'Officer King states this post references the biblical principles of living a lifestyle of homosexuality and receiving Christ as your savior, being redeemed and saved, which is the concept of salvation,' the report said. 'He went on to say that he supports this post because it celebrates the opposite perspective of celebrating someone who is openly gay and homosexual.'\nGPD's Internal Affairs division contends that King's actions tend to discredit or reflect unfavorably on the city and its employees.\n'The above post/comments will not maintain camaraderie among officers and would not build trust within the community,' the report said. 'And furthermore the above post whether done on or off the job would tend to affect Officer King's relationship to his job, fellow workers' reputations or goodwill in the community.'\nThe division recommended termination and Chief Tony Jones signed the order April 11.\nKing is the second GPD officer in six months to face discipline for social media posts. In December, Officer Michael Hamill resigned while under internal investigation for making Facebook posts that referred to the Holocaust and the killing of millions of Jews by Germany.}}
{{Axel Johnson was nervous about the first day of school, so his school bus driver held his hand for support\nWe've all been there. The first-day-of-school jitters. For one Wisconsin student it started on the school bus, last week.\nAxel started 4K last week, which is a pre-kindergarten year for kids 4 and under in an elementary school setting. His mom, Amy Johnson, wanted to mark the occasion by taking a picture of him on the school bus.\nInstead of a smile, Johnson got tears and a red face.\n$embedHtml\n"He was super excited to go, but when the bus came around corner he was really quiet," she told CNN. "The bus opened the door and I looked at him and he started crying."\nJohnson said she picked Axel up to seat him on the bus but he was clinging onto her. That's when the bus driver, Isabel Lane, comforted him by showing him an open seat right behind her.\n"I told him, 'Buddy, you got this and will have so much fun,' " Johnson said.\nLane told CNN that Johnson was trying to get off the bus, but Axel kept grabbing for her.\n"I stuck my hand behind the seat as maybe something else to grab onto and he grabbed my hand," Lane said.\nJohnson said she got off the bus but turned around, still wanting her "perfect picture." That's when she captured the image.\nThe Augusta Police Department posted the photo of the pair on Facebook and it grabbed people's attention, with many leaving comments praising Lane for her compassion and kindness.\nLane has been a school bus driver for the Augusta School District for a little under a year. She loves working with kids.\n"I could see that he needed to be comforted and that was the best I could do at the time," Lane said.\nBeing in a small town, Lane said she gets to learn about the kids she's driving to school every day.\n"You get invested in cheering them on," she said. "A big win for me is every morning I tell the kids as they get off to make it a good day and when I have a kid who I know doesn't like to go to school say, 'Yeah, I'll try.' It makes me feel good because they heard me and I hope it makes them feel like they can be heard."\nAfter talking to the bus driver on the first day, Axel stopped crying before the end of the road, Johnson said.\n"Now he gets on the bus everyday ready to go and loves school," Johnson said.\nAxel can be a role model. He has a 2-year-old brother who will follow in his footsteps in a few years.\nCopyright 2019 by KPRC Click2Houston - All rights reserved.}}
{{SAGINAW, MI — Jessica Reedy has traveled the world on account of her amazing singing voice. She has learned lessons from being in the entertainment industry. Now she is back home in Saginaw bringing with her a new school to help others find themselves.\nReedy was first runner-up in the Gospel singing competition Sunday’s Best during its second season on cable TV network BET in 2009.\nOn Oct. 7, class starts at The Industry Development Center, a school that Reedy started that teaches college-level courses.\nThe school opens in the conference center located inside the SVRC Marketplace and offers courses to help people develop professionally.\n“If you do not know what your gift is, we are going to help you discover it,” Reedy said. “If you know what your gift is but feel stagnant, we want to teach you how to.”\nStudents with a high school diploma or equivalent who are not in default with student loans qualify for the school. Reedy and two other instructors will be teaching the curriculum.\nThe courses offered are human growth and development, intro to business, business communication and entrepreneurship. There is a community service component every other Saturday in the eight-week course. Reedy calls it Selfless Saturdays and said that students will volunteer in and around the community.\nEach student who enrolls will automatically be screened to see if they are eligible for the Pell Grant, which covers the $1,500 tuition.\nThose who don’t qualify for the grant will be required to enroll in Purelee Global program for $35 a month. The program offers resources such as job leads and professional development.\nReedy’s school is accredited by Life Academy, which is an affiliate school of Arkansas Baptist College. Students receive 12 college-transferable credits upon completion of their studies, Reedy said.\nStudents will be accepted into Arkansas Baptist University automatically upon completion. And though Reedy said she does not have any agreements with local colleges and universities, it is something she is pursuing.\n“Because I really want to keep it local,” she said.\nThe school was first started in Dallas two years ago, Reedy said. She felt it was time to bring it to her hometown this year.\n“I’m a product of Saginaw, Michigan,” Reedy said. “And because of the mentors I had, it gave me the confidence to go out and feel that I could compete with the world. There are more talented individuals here who do not have those opportunities. I want to build the hope.”\nClasses will be held from 7-9 p.m. on Mondays and Wednesdays. The deadline to enroll is Sept. 20 and can be done by calling 844-207-7088 or visiting www.TheIndustryDevelopmentCenter.com.\nOrientations will be held on Sept. 28 and Oct. 4.}}
{{Tottenham Hotspur defender Serge Aurier disclosed that he is anticipating a 'special' Christmas celebration in England.\nThe 24-year-old who joined Mauricio Pochettino’s men on a five-year deal from Paris Saint Germain in August, is gearing up for an unusual celebration in north London after spending most of his life in France.\nAhead of Spurs' visit to Turf Moor to take on Burnley on Saturday, the former Lens and Toulouse player discussed how he celebrated the festive period in the previous years and his Christmas wish with the club's official website.\nQ: What will you do on Christmas Day?\nIt’s always a big party at this time of year because it’s my birthday on December 24. My family will travel from Paris to London to see me on that day and then on December 25 I will be training with the team for the match on December 26 against Southampton.\nQ: How does this differ from past Christmases for you?\nFor me it’s a big difference because normally at this time of year it’s a holiday in other countries like France, where I have spent most of my life. Now I have to train and play games but I’m happy about this – it’s something special in England to play and enjoy football.\nQ: What is traditional at Christmas in Ivory Coast?\nIt’s a party! They give presents to everyone and have dinner together, like here in England. They have all kinds of dishes derived from rice, pasta and potatoes – there is not one specific traditional meal at this time of year.\nQ: What is your favourite festive meal?\nA popular Ivorian food called attiéké, which is like couscous. I like to have it with fish.\nQ: What do you wish for at Christmas?\nThree points from the game against Southampton on December 26 and then to have a great second half of the season.\nQ: What was your most memorable gift as a child?\nMy first toy car. It was a small radio-controlled one and I used to follow it around all over the place!}}
{{It’s official — the Vancouver Canucks have inked Swedish stud Elias Pettersson to an entry-level contract.\nHappy and excited to sign my first NHL-contract. A dream come true! I want to thank everyone who helped me along the way and especially my family. I couldn’t have done it without you. pic.twitter.com/NXTBLO1xBc — Elias Pettersson (@_EPettersson) May 25, 2018\nThank goodness his signing hand wasn’t injured at the World Hockey Championships, eh?\nThe hype is high for Pettersson and expectations are riding at a similar altitude — Canucks GM Jim Benning told Sportsnet-650 that he believes Pettersson is more than capable of cracking a roster spot for next season.\n“Elias is a talented offensive player with tremendous vision and skill.” said Benning. “We expect him to be ready to challenge for a roster spot in training camp.”\nPettersson’s Big Year\nIf you’ve followed Canucks media for the past year, you have most-certainly heard of Pettersson’s accomplishments across the board. On every stage, the 19-year-old has shined.\nHe made history this season in the SHL, putting up points unseen from a teenager since the conception of the league. Then, to put the cherry on top, he did the same thing in the postseason, on the way to winning it all.\nOn the international stage, he lit it up for Sweden at the World Junior Championships, and most recently, he put his skills on display at the World Hockey Championships while competing against some NHL talent.\nDespite his many accomplishments, criticism continues to follow the youngster. Cries of him being too small and heavily reliant on the wider European ice echo throughout Canucks media.\nAt a very skinny 6-foot-2 and 160 pounds, he’s drastically undersized for the NHL, especially at the centerman position where he resides. Also, the majority of his prowess has been portrayed on that aforementioned bigger ice, so the question of whether or not he can adjust at the NHL level does arise.\nPettersson and the NHL\nFor every doubter Pettersson may have, he also has a believer. Former NHL Swedish star Mats Sundin is one of those believers, as he told Sportsnet-650.\n“He really dominated the Swedish Elite League this year,” said Sundin. “He has everything you need to become a superstar in the National Hockey League.”\nHis skill is truly undeniable and beyond NHL-ready, but physically, he’s lacking. Proposals of him slotting in on the wing for a little while are becoming more and more prominent. Considering that notion, the thought of him on a line with Brock Boeser is very, very intriguing.\nThe pure-sniper abilities of Boeser working in tandem with Pettersson’s borderline-magical abilities with the puck spell disaster for opponents, especially on a power-play unit.\nPutting the young Swede on the wing for a season or two also allows him to play with Bo Horvat, and it leaves another center-ice position available for development of a player such as Adam Gaudette, who would benefit from playing higher up in the lineup as opposed to a fourth-line spot.\nThis offseason is huge for Pettersson — he desperately needs to stack on weight and prepare for the physical demands of the NHL. The players are bigger and faster, and the ice is smaller, leaving way less time to hang on to the puck and make fancy plays as Pettersson so often does.\nPettersson’s 2018 Canucks Outlook\nIn my mind, there’s no way Pettersson won’t make the roster next season. The fact that he’s able to elevate his game on the continually-growing big stages laid out in front of him gives me full confidence in his abilities and mental toughness.\nWith a big offseason, and if he does play with talent such as Boeser, I’d expect him to be a Calder Trophy candidate, much like Boeser was last season.\nWith that being said, his Coach over in the SHL, Sam Hallam, stresses patience with the rising star.\n“Let him grow into it, he’s a difference-maker but still needs to be physically stronger,” says Hallam. “It’s tougher in the NHL to get scoring chances. In due time, he will be a top player in the league.”\nWill he crack the roster? Could he contend for the Calder? Let me know how you think Pettersson will do next season in the comments below!}}
{{August 05, 2016 15:41 IST\nThe 19-year-old Norwegian national of Somali-origin, who is in police custody on charges of murder after going on a knife rampage in London, has been described as a “quiet, nice” schoolboy and initial probe indicate that tragic incident was triggered by mental health issues.\nZakaria Bulhan is yet to be officially named by Scotland Yard but British media reports confirm the London schoolboy as the suspect being held over the murder of 64-year-old American retired teacher Darlene Horton.\nA schoolmate, who went to Graveney School in Tooting, south London, with Bulhan told ‘Daily Mirror’: “It’s one of the most shocking things I have ever heard.\nNo-one would have expected that he would turn out like that.\n“He was a quiet, nice kid who had banter with people. He was just a nice kid. I have seen some reports that say he was bullied but it was just banter - he gave back as good as he got. It was a two-way thing.”\nNorwegian Police said in a statement that the suspect had emigrated from Norway to the UK in 2002 and they were assisting London police.\nScotland Yard had searched addresses in north London and another in south London and concluded that mental health issues were the most likely cause of the “random attack”.\nAfter an initial indication that terrorism was one line of inquiry, the force confirmed that there was no evidence of radicalisation or anything to suggest the attack was “in any way motivated by terrorism”.\n“Whilst the investigation is not yet complete -- all of the work that we have done so far, increasingly points to this tragic incident as having been triggered by mental health issues,” Metropolitan police assistant commissioner Mark Rowley said.\n“So far, we have found no evidence of radicalisation or anything that would suggest the man in our custody was motivated by terrorism,” he added.\nA British man who suffered a stab wound to his stomach in the attack at Russell Square, near the British Museum, remains in hospital in a “serious but stable” condition while an American man, an Australian man and Australian woman, and an Israeli woman were all discharged after receiving treatment for their injuries.\nHorton, who died at the scene, was set to return to Florida on Friday with husband Richard Wagner, a psychology professor at Florida State University, after he completed his summer classes on the day of the attack.\nIt is understood that university officials have flown to London to support him.\nFlorida State University president John Thrasher said: “There are no words to express our heartache over this terrible tragedy”.\nThe Met police said there is an increased police presence in the area popular with tourists, which will remain in place for some time.\nImage: An armed police officer attends the scene of a knife attack in Russell Square in London. Photograph: Neil Hall/Reuters}}
{{VATICAN CITY — Pope Francis has wished Christmas peace for people scarred by wars and those who lost loved ones to terrorism that he says is sowing “fear and death” in many cities and countries.\nSpeaking from the central balcony of St. Peter’s Basilica Sunday, Francis cited those suffering through the Syrian war, especially during the “most awful battles” in Aleppo. He pressed the international community for a negotiated solution. He urged Israelis and Palestinians to abandon hate and revenge.\nHe also lamented that in Nigeria “fundamentalist terrorism exploits even children,” a reference to child suicide-bombers.\nHe decried conflicts and tensions in Africa, eastern Ukraine, Myanmar, the Korean peninsula, Colombia and Venezuela.\nTens of thousands of faithful entering St. Peter’s Square endured long lines for security checks.}}
{{As families head home for Christmas, a young mother has revealed how she will be spending the festive season with her premature baby daughter in hospital.\nHayley Somerset was in Melbourne to judge the showjumping Championships when she went into labour at just 25 weeks.\nThe Queensland woman gave birth to her little daughter Mary Jane on the night of September 18 at the Royal Women's Hospital.\nThe newborn girl will celebrate her first Christmas in a hospital cot - more than 2,300 kilometres from her family home in Mackay.\nScroll down for video\nLittle Mary Jane Somerset (pictured) has been in hospital after she was born at just 25 weeks\nMother Hayley Somerset (pictured holding little Mary Jane) will be spending their first Christmas together in hospital\n'At the start you don't feel like a mum... not what you pictured in your head,' Ms Somerset told 9News.\n'Just as long as we're together, we're pretty happy,' she said.\nHer husband Myles has been travelling in between Mackay and Melbourne to see his family as much as possible.\nLittle Mary Jane is just one of a dozen babies at the hospital spending their first Christmas away from home.\nDespite the difficulties, hospital staff workers will spread some festive cheer on Monday to ensure families can enjoy a special day.\nThe Queensland mother was in Melbourne to judge the showjumping Championships when she went into labour at just 25 weeks\nFamily and friends have set up a fundraising campaign in an effort to help fly Mary Jane home for the first time with her mother\nAgainst all odds, little Mary Jane has proved to be a little fighter after she was deemed 'strong enough' to fly from Melbourne to a major hospital in Queensland.\nBut the flight has taken a financial strain on the family, as loved ones rally behind the mother and daughter to help them raise money.\nFamily and friends have set up a GoFundMe campaign in an effort to help fly Mary Jane home for the first time with her mother.\n'Baby Mary Jane had surgery and has been getting stronger and stronger by the week,' the post read.\nThe newborn girl will celebrate her first Christmas in a hospital cot - more than 2,300 kilometres from her family home in Mackay\n'While Mary Jane can't travel to Mackay as the local hospital is not equipped to care for her, she is getting strong enough to be medically evacuated from Melbourne to a major hospital in Queensland allowing her to be closer to home and Hayley to have some more familiar faces around and be closer to family.\n'The devastating part of this great news is that it will be very expensive to get a medical flight from Victoria back to Queensland and will be a bill that the family needs to pay.\n'Once they are back in Queensland the expenses will continue with accommodation and life away from home for quite some time yet.\n'We are asking for anyone who can, to give even just a few dollars. Every dollar adds up and with your help, love and assistance we can bring baby Mary Jane home to Queensland for the first time.'}}
{{Bollywood films can’t survive without good music that often becomes the soul of a film. Much before its release date, a film’s fate is decided by how well its music has been received by the audience, and our singers and music directors get full credit for this. While music lovers have their favourite singers who they can listen to on loop, let’s find out who these singers love to work with. On World Music Day, today, we asked popular playback singers to share what they love the most about their favourite music composers and directors and why they would love to work with them again and again.\nBaghbaan singer Richa Sharma’s favourite music composer is AR Rahman.\nRicha Sharma: I loved working with Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy, Pritam and AR Rahman equally. However, one thing I absolutely cherish is working with Rahman in Zubeidaa (2001). I was doing a show in Mumbai, when he called me in the evening and asked, ‘Can you sing a thumri?’, but that was not my genre. I reached the recording studio after the show, dressed in the show’s costume itself, loaded with jewellery, and everybody in that studio was shocked to see me. We all started laughing, and completed the recording in four to five hours. It was such a beautiful composition that youngsters still sing it in reality TV shows!\nRapper-singer Hard Kaur loves working with the trio of Shankar Ehsaan Loy\nHard Kaur: Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy are amazing, because you get to jam with them. They believe in creating something together, and combine the old school with the new school, with live instruments. They always ask their singers for inputs and ideas. This makes us singers feel really comfortable.\nTubelight composer Pritam is Dev Negi’s favourite\nDev Negi: Pritam da has always been my favourite. I have liked his compositions for a long time, and his work touches your heart. He’s a very nice person, and of course, we are all fans of his music! I find him a very versatile music director and someone who is very updated in terms of sound. Also, he’s a soulful composer. Whatever I know of him, he’s an extremely genuine human being and very down to earth.\nJubin Nautiyal likes working with both Pritam and Jeet Gannguli equally\nJubin Nautiyal:There are many composers I love working with such as Tanishk Bagchi, Gourav-Roshin, Sajid-Wajid and Rocky-Shiv, but Pritam da and Jeet (Gannguli) da are my favourites. They bring out the best in me and I always get to learn something new whenever I work with them. The best thing I like about them is I get to learn from their vast experience and getting to see music from their eyes is an amazing experience.\nIk Onkaar singer Harshdeep Kaur cherishes the first time she got to work with AR Rahman\nHarshdeep Kaur: The first time I worked with AR Rahman sir was in the 2006 film Rang De Basanti on Ik Onkaar. Since it was a prayer, I thought it would be used as the background music somewhere in the movie, and won’t be included in the final album. But to my surprise, when I picked up the film’s album, the first song on the list was my song. While recording it, Rahman sir asked me at what time during the day is this prayer offered. I told him it was sung during the morning time. It was 8 pm when we started, and we finally recorded at 4 am the next morning, when Rahman sir was convinced it as the perfect time to record the prayer.\nFollow @htshowbiz for more}}
{{Inspiration and education\nThe third and final day of the National Association of Federally-Insured Credit Unions’ 50th Annual Meeting Friday in Honolulu featured talk of having fire in one’s eyes when talking about credit unions, regulatory relief, trends in the payments space and how to manage vendor contracts. There was a private concert by Beach Boys co-founder Brian Wilson, roasted pig, and the trade group even rolled out a 50th anniversary cake!\nBut the one of the biggest highlights of the day was the inspirational true life story of John Maclean, who rolled onto the stage in a wheelchair, but then walked off.}}
{{TOLEDO, Ohio (AP) - A school board in Ohio has decided not to lift a ban against a former school superintendent who resigned amid an investigation and then was elected to its school board in November.\nThe move means former superintendent Patrick Hickey remains barred from going onto the district's property.\nHickey resigned as superintendent from Toledo's Washington Local district in 2015 before the school board could consider a resolution to fire him.\nHe later was banned after officials said he verbally abused referees at a basketball game and harassed school employees.\nThe board on Wednesday upheld the ban.\nHickey says he's confident a new board will lift the ban in January and allow him to attend board meetings on school property.\nCopyright 2017 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.}}
{{Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu extended his sincerest greetings on the joyous occasion of Christmas, a festival that spreads the message of love, harmony and peace beyond boundaries and religious affinities.\n“It sure is a time to get showered with gifts and wishes, but in midst of all the jubilations, we should not forget the real spirit of Christmas. Christmas is not only about fun and gifts, but of love and generosity,” he said in a message on Christmas Eve.\nKhandu called upon all, irrespective of religious affiliations, to remember all who, in their own ways and capacities, make the world a better place to live in but are least thanked.\n“This Christmas, let us bring joy to others with an act of kindness,” he said.\nThe Chief Minister expressed faith that this Christmas celebration would open up the doors of wisdom and the enlightenment that peace and development go hand in hand.\n“As we celebrate the birthday of our lord Jesus Christ, it is my fervent wish that every cup may overflow with blessings rich and eternal, and that every path may lead to peace. And we all move ahead, hand-in-hand without a hitch, towards development,” he added.\nMeanwhile, the Chief Minister also wished everyone on the occasion of Good Governance Day, the day celebrated to commemorate the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister AtalBehari Vajpayee.}}
{{The holiday season has dad-to-be John Stamos feeling nostalgic!\nOn Saturday night, Stamos shared another adorable holiday throwback, this time, featuring his “Full House” niece, played by “Dancing with the Stars” alum Jodie Sweetin.\n“Me and @jodiesweetin Christmas Day – a long, long time ago,” he wrote.\nRELATED: John Stamos is about to be a dad for the first time, and he’s looking to his own “hero” father for guidance\nSweetin shared the same image on her own Instagram, adding, ” Omg… this picture. Love you @johnstamos ! Family for almost 31 years. Unbelievable. Also, our hair is on point. #fullhousefamily.”\nEarlier this week, Stamos gave fans a look into his past with a sweet shot from a Christmas he celebrated as a child.\n““…and I want a bike, and I want a baby…” the actor wrote alongside the image of his younger self sitting on Santa’s lap. “Not ‘til you’re 54, son.”\nStamos and his fiance Caitlin McHugh announced they are expecting their first child together just weeks ago after getting engaged in October.\n“We have the same morals and the same values, that all clicked nicely. So we said, ‘Oh, well, maybe we should have a family,’” Stamos said of his fiancee at the time of the pregnancy news.\n“I’ll be a fun dad. I’ve been practicing for a long time,” he joked. “I’ve done every schtick you can do with a baby on TV … all the bits and jokes and diaper gags. I’ll probably just do all that stuff.”}}
{{× Typhoon Nock-ten hits the Philippines on Christmas Day\nSuper typhoon Nock-ten made landfall in the Philippines on Christmas Day after authorities worked to evacuate thousands of residents from low-lying areas of the Southeast Asian country’s eastern provinces.\nAt 8 p.m. local time (7 a.m. ET), authorities said the typhoon, known locally as Nina, made landfall over Bato in the province of Catanduanes.\nThe storm hit the Bicol region with moderate to heavy rainfall, according to the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA).\nThe Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWC) reported that Nock-ten had maximum sustained winds of 250 kph (155 mph) and gusts of up to 305 kph (190 mph).\nThe provinces of Catanduanes and Albay have been declared under a “state of imminent danger/disaster.”\nThe storm is expected to traverse the provinces of Camarines Sur, Camarines Norte, Southern Quezon, Laguna, Batangas and Cavite. The storm had been forecast to move west at 15 kph (9 mph).\nThe National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council reported 11,476 passengers, more than 1,000 cargo ships and over a dozen other vessels were stranded in various ports in the region.\nThe typhoon remains a category 4 equivalent — just 2 kph shy of becoming a category 5 equivalent, according to CNN’s Severe Weather Team.\nThe Philippines’ tropical cyclone warning signal number 4 has been hoisted for Catanduanes and neighboring Camarines Sur. The warning signal, the second-highest level on the scale of alerts, indicates the storm could cause “heavy damage” to high-risk structures. Rice, corn and coconut plantations will likely suffer severe losses.\nA storm surge height of up to 2.5 meters is possible over the coastal areas of Camarines Sur, Camarines Norte, Albay, Sorsogon and Catanduanes, PASAGA reported.\nForecasters warned that the storm could bring lashing winds and dump heavy rain in several areas across of the country, including the capital, Manila.\nThere are fears that Nock-ten could potentially bring flooding to the capital, one of the most densely populated urban centers of the country, during the busy holiday weekend.\nPAGASA reports that the typhoon will cause moderate to heavy rainfall in a 500-kilometer (311-mile) radius.\nThe typhoon warning center projects that the typhoon will gradually weaken “as the system begins to interact with land,” but warned it could still retain typhoon intensity.\nThe governor of the eastern seaboard province of Camarines Sur, Miguel Villafuerte, posted on Twitter that nearly 50,000 family evacuations had been scheduled by 7 p.m. Saturday local time (6 a.m. ET Saturday).\nAs an added incentive to push people out of their homes and into shelters ahead of Christmas in this Catholic-majority country, Villafuerte has promised to provide the traditional dish of lechon (roasted pig) for his constituents if they proceed to evacuation centers, CNN affiliate ABS-CBN reported.\nThe Philippines has been battered by devastating typhoons in recent years, most notably Typhoon Haiyan in 2013 — considered to be among the strongest storms to make landfall. Haiyan killed more than 6,000 people and forced nearly 4 million people from their homes.}}
{{Saputo (TSE:SAP) had its target price reduced by Royal Bank of Canada from C$50.00 to C$49.00 in a research report released on Thursday morning, BayStreet.CA reports. Royal Bank of Canada currently has an outperform rating on the stock.\nOther analysts have also issued reports about the company. TD Securities boosted their target price on Saputo from C$41.00 to C$45.00 and gave the company a hold rating in a research report on Friday, August 9th. Desjardins lowered shares of Saputo from a buy rating to a hold rating in a report on Friday, June 7th. CIBC decreased their price target on shares of Saputo from C$47.00 to C$43.00 and set a neutral rating for the company in a research note on Friday, June 7th. Finally, National Bank Financial increased their price target on shares of Saputo from C$43.00 to C$44.00 and gave the stock a sector perform rating in a research note on Friday, August 9th. Four investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and one has issued a buy rating to the company’s stock. Saputo presently has an average rating of Hold and a consensus price target of C$45.33.\nGet Saputo alerts:\nShares of SAP stock traded down C$0.01 during mid-day trading on Thursday, hitting C$39.98. The company’s stock had a trading volume of 221,744 shares, compared to its average volume of 459,833. The company’s fifty day simple moving average is C$40.48 and its 200-day simple moving average is C$42.62. Saputo has a 52 week low of C$35.56 and a 52 week high of C$46.41. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 91.33, a quick ratio of 0.55 and a current ratio of 1.29. The company has a market cap of $15.82 billion and a PE ratio of 20.84.\nSaputo (TSE:SAP) last posted its quarterly earnings data on Thursday, August 8th. The company reported C$0.42 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the Thomson Reuters’ consensus estimate of C$0.43 by C($0.01). The firm had revenue of C$3.67 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts’ expectations of C$3.61 billion. On average, equities analysts anticipate that Saputo will post 2.0099999 earnings per share for the current year.\nThe business also recently declared a quarterly dividend, which will be paid on Friday, September 13th. Investors of record on Friday, September 13th will be paid a $0.17 dividend. This is an increase from Saputo’s previous quarterly dividend of $0.17. This represents a $0.68 dividend on an annualized basis and a yield of 1.70%. The ex-dividend date is Friday, August 30th. Saputo’s dividend payout ratio is presently 35.44%.\nAbout Saputo\nSaputo Inc produces, markets, and distributes dairy products in Canada, the United States, Argentina, Australia, and internationally. It offers cheese products, including mozzarella and cheddar; specialty cheese, such as ricotta, provolone, parmesan, goat cheese, feta, and havarti; fine cheese, such as brie and camembert; other cheese, including brick, colby, farmer, munster, monterey jack, fresh curd, and processed cheese; and butter.\nRead More: Backdoor Roth IRA\nReceive News & Ratings for Saputo Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Saputo and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.}}
{{CLARK COUNTY, Ind. (WHAS11) – Two Jeffersonville schools will still be open for a little longer after Greater Clark County Schools announced their plans to construct a new school on Tuesday, June 20.\nThe board is planning on constructing a new school to accommodate the students that attend Maple and Spring Hill elementary schools. The now school will be located in downtown Jeffersonville.\nThe plan is to have the schools remain open until the construction for the new school is complete. Once the new school opens, Maple and Spring Hill will close.\nGCCS says they hope to have the new school ready for the 2019-2020 school year.\nSuperintendent Andrew Melin said they can’t justify two small elementary schools with only 200 students.\nJeffersonville Mayor Mike Moore says the two schools will close no matter what, even if a petition is created.\n© 2017 WHAS-TV}}
{{She's the popular host of Channel Seven's The Morning Show alongside Larry Emdur.\nAnd Kylie Gillies let her glam flag fly on Wednesday when she went backstage for the Sydney production of Priscilla Queen Of The Desert The Musical.\nKylie and Larry visited the production for a segment on Wednesday's Morning show and Kylie took to her Instagram story to document her fabulous adventure.\nNot a drag: The Morning Show's Kylie Gillies let her glam flag fly on Wednesday when she went backstage for the Sydney production of Priscilla The Musical\nThe 51-year-old shared a video to the social media platform that showed her preparing to don one of the production's elaborate wigs.\n'So the transformation for Priscilla... here we go this is wig prep,' Kylie said in the clip as a stylist dutifully applied a skull cap to Kylie's head.\nContinuing, Kylie said that she was happy with the age reversing properties the skull cap provided.\nWiging out: 'So the transformation for Priscilla...here we go this is wig prep,' Kylie said in the clip as a stylist dutifully applied a skull cap to Kylie's head.\nContinuing, Kylie said that she was happy with the age reversing properties the skull cap provided with: 'Oh that's a good look,' she exclaimed. 'oh look, that's a face lift at the same time.'\n'Oh that's a good look,' she exclaimed. 'oh look, that's a face lift at the same time.'\nWith her own hair suitably protected, the stylist then grabbed an ornate white and yellow wig that was placed delicately on Kylie's head, in a second video that she captioned: 'the higher the hair.'\nClearly chuffed with her new adornment, Kylie offered an excited: 'Fabulous,' as she scoped the results.\nBouffant: With her own hair suitably protected, the stylist then grabbed an ornate white and yellow wig that was placed delicately on Kylie's head, in a second video that she captioned: 'the higher the hair.'\nIt wasn't just a 'hair raising' day for Kylie either with the host also getting the full Priscilla make-up treatment.\nShe shares an image that showed the stylist applying a healthy application of glittering deep purple lipstick.\nAlso sporting a fetching smoky eye, Kylie captioned the image: 'love a good lip.'}}
{{“Star Wars” actress Carrie Fisher was spending Christmas in intensive care at UCLA Medical Center two days after suffering a “cardiac episode” during a flight from London to Los Angeles.\nHospital officials have provided no details of her condition, but she appears to be seriously ill.\nFisher, 60, was rushed to the hospital by Los Angeles Fire Department paramedics shortly after noon Friday, after her 11-hour flight touched down at LAX.\nA source who was not authorized to discuss the incident said the actress was “in a lot of distress on the flight.”\nA statement released by United Airlines said that medical personnel met Flight 935 from London on arrival after the crew reported a passenger was unresponsive.\n“Our thoughts are with our customer at this time,” the statement read.\nJust prior to arrival, a pilot told the control tower that passengers who were nurses were attending to an “unresponsive” passenger.\n“They’re working on her right now,” the pilot said in a public recording of the conversation on liveatc.net.\nAccording to the Los Angeles Airport Police, officers responded to Terminal 7 around 12:15 p.m. Friday to a call of a female passenger in cardiac arrest. On arrival, they found paramedics performing CPR on the victim, according to Officer Alicia Hernandez.\nTodd Fisher, Carrie Fisher’s brother, told CNN that his sister had been stabilized at the hospital and was in an intensive care unit.\n“She’s obviously a very tough girl who’s survived many things,” Todd told KABC-TV Channel 7. “I encourage everyone to pray for her.”\nHer sister, actress Joely Fisher, said on Twitter that she would perform Saturday afternoon at the Laguna Playhouse and then would be “back by your side @carrieffisher Love you Sister Sledge.”\nFisher, who rose to stardom as Princess Leia on “Star Wars,” recently published an autobiography titled “The Princess Diarist,” her eighth book.\nShe is the daughter of famous Hollywood couple Debbie Reynolds and Eddie Fisher.\nFisher, who has written and spoken openly about her struggles in the movie business, is considered Hollywood royalty. She took on her prickly relationship with her mother in the book-to-movie “Postcards From the Edge.” She’s also been outspoken about her mental health issues and the solution she found: radical-sounding electroshock therapy.\nNews of Fisher’s condition sparked an outpouring of support and sympathy on social media.\nMany of her “Star Wars” co-stars wished her well on Twitter, including Peter Mayhew, who played Chewbacca; Mark Hamill, who played Luke Skywalker; Anthony Daniels, who played C-3PO; Dave Prowse, who acted as Darth Vader; and Billy Dee Williams, who played Lando Calrissian.\n“I’m shocked and saddened to hear the news about my dear friend. Our thoughts are with Carrie, her family and friends,” co-star Harrison Ford said in a statement Saturday.\nrichard.winton@latimes.com\njoe.serna@latimes.com\nTwitter: @LAcrimes and @JosephSerna\nALSO:\nIn her unflinching 'The Princess Diarist,' Carrie Fisher revisits her Princess Leia days and her affair with Harrison Ford\nThe new documentary 'Bright Lights’ peels back the curtain on Carrie Fisher's legendary Hollywood family\nCarrie Fisher insists: I never said Harrison Ford was bad in bed\nFrom the Archives: 'Star Wars' hails the once and future space western\nUPDATES:\nDec. 25, 6:45 a.m.: This article was updated with the latest on Fisher’s health and more reactions.\nDec. 24, 5 p.m.: This article was updated with additional comments from Fisher’s siblings.\nDec. 24, 10:30 a.m.: This article was updated with new tweets from well-wishers.\nDec. 24, 7:30 a.m.: This article was updated with details that Fisher is in the intensive care unit at the hospital.\nDec. 23, 4 p.m.: This article was updated with more details on Fisher’s condition.\nDec. 23, 3 p.m.: This article was updated with comments from Hamill and Mayhew.\nDec. 23, 2:30 p.m.: This article was updated with additional information about the pilot’s conversation with ground control.\nDec. 23, 2:05 p.m.: This article was updated with additional details from LAX police and United Airlines officials.\nThis article was originally published on Dec. 23 at 1:35 p.m.}}
{{Gatehouse charity hosts Christmas lunch for the lonely and homeless in Bury St Edmunds\nMayor of St Edmundsbury and Gatehouse chairman Julia Wakelam with volunteers Katie Bexon and daughter Ella Nobbs and guest Susan Buckle Archant\nCommunities came together today to support the lonely and homeless at Christmas time.\nEmail this article to a friend To send a link to this page you must be logged in.\nBrothers John and Paul Currey Brothers John and Paul Currey\nIn Bury St Edmunds, the annual Christmas meal was held by the Gatehouse charity at St Benedict’s Catholic School, in Beetons Way.\nCharity chief executive Amanda Bloomfield said: “It’s fantastic. It’s really good to see the community coming together as one to make sure nobody is left alone on Christmas Day.”\nSt Edmundsbury mayor Julia Wakelam is also chairman of the Gatehouse charity.\n“It’s really special coming as mayor as well,” she said. “I spent yesterday making stuffing balls so that brings you down to earth. It is amazing. I’ve been involved in the Christmas lunch ever since it first started. The very first one was in the Catholic church crypt. It was the first one we had with the night shelter. All the food was brought in, there was no kitchen. My husband and I were running down Westgate Street clutching roast potatoes.”\nGatehouse Christmas Day Lunch. Gatehouse Christmas Day Lunch.\nRoff Caterers of Bury St Edmunds donated the turkeys – as they have done for the past 28 years and all the other food was donated as well.\nAmanda added: “It’s a great bunch of volunteers here and most of them have been doing it for many years. Jim Herrington, who does the cooking, has been doing it for 18 years now. He’s our star volunteer who keeps calm, no matter how many people I book in.”\nThe meal was attended by around 140 guests and volunteers at 12noon today, with Year 11 St Benedict’s pupil Ewan Ley providing the music.\nSimilar events also took place in Stowmarket and Woodbridge.\nGatehouse Christmas Day Lunch. Gatehouse Christmas Day Lunch.\nA Christmas meal was held at the Salvation Army Hall in Woodbridge and in Stowmarket, Michelle Frost and Jill Roberts hosted a meal at the United Reformed Church.\nThe pair switched on the Christmas lights in Stowmarket this year in honour of the work they did for the elderly and lonely in the town.}}
{{OTTAWA, July 17 (Reuters) - Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz said on Wednesday he had never been an advocate for a lower Canadian dollar and that the value of the currency would always fluctuate.\nBefore taking over at the bank Poloz was head of Export Development Canada, the country’s export credit agency. Many exporters complain they are finding it tough to deal with the high value of the Canadian dollar.\n“I was never an advocate for a lower dollar...the dollar is delivered to us from markets. It’s not something we get to choose,” he told the Canadian Broadcasting Corp, saying exporters were far more interested in demand growth.\n“That will be more important to an exporter than whether the dollar happens to be 96 (U.S. cents) today or 97 tomorrow or what have you. Those fluctuations will always be there.”}}
{{U.S. Senator John McCain (R-AZ) watches his colleagues speak during a news conference following their tour of the Arizona-Mexico border in Nogales, Arizona March 27, 2013. REUTERS/Samantha Sais\nWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Senator John McCain said on Thursday that he and other backers of immigration reform “are not winning,” and must boost efforts to get the House of Representatives to pass such a bill.\nMcCain said proponents - who include businesses, churches and labor - will wage an aggressive campaign in selective congressional districts next month to make the case for a comprehensive overhaul of U.S. immigration laws.\n“Here is a fact: We are not winning,” the Arizona Republican told reporters. “So we have to wage a campaign. That doesn’t mean a negative campaign. It means a positive campaign.”\n“You need to respond to things that are said. You need to build support. You need to network,” McCain said.\nThe Democratic-led Senate last month overwhelmingly passed a bipartisan bill crafted by McCain and seven of his colleagues, but it was declared dead on arrival in the Republican-led House.\nMost of the opposition to the White House-backed bill is over a provision that would provide a pathway to citizenship for up to 11 million illegal immigrants now in the United States.\nBackers say the pathway would draw undocumented immigrants out of the shadows and make them productive and tax-paying members of the American way of life, improving the U.S. economy.\nCritics argue that the pathway would amount to “amnesty,” and attract more illegal immigrants into the country.\nMcCain and two fellow co-authors of the Senate bill, Democratic Senator Charles Schumer and Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, recently met with tech giants, including Google, Intel and Microsoft, to discuss the campaign for immigration reform, aides said.\nThey plan to target more than 100 House Republicans who are seen as at least open to the possibility of voting for immigration reform, which would help provide business with needed high- and low-skilled workers, aides said.\n“There are many members of the House who don’t want to take up any bill at all,” said McCain.\nMcCain and others initially predicted that if the Senate passed an immigration bill with strong bipartisan support, it would pressure the House to consider it.\nThe comprehensive bill passed 68-32, but House Republican leaders have refused to even bring it up. Backers are now hoping that the House simply passes a limited bill.\nThat would trigger a House-Senate conference where negotiators could try to combine the two measures into a single new piece of legislation.\nDemocratic Senator Robert Menendez, another co-author of the Senate bill, said even though Congress will be on recess in August, it will be a pivotal month for immigration reform.\n“We need the entire universe of people who care about immigration reform to be active next month,” Menendez said. “If we do that, we will be well positioned for the fall in the House. If we don‘t, we will run a risk.”\nRepublican Senator Jeff Sessions, a leading foe of the Senate bill, dismissed the effort as “an act of desperation.”\n“The problems with the Senate bill can’t be fixed with new TV ads,” Sessions said.\nThe push for comprehensive immigration reform has been hurt by Obama’s problems in implementing his 2010 overhaul of the U.S. healthcare system.\nCritics charge Obama’s recent decision to delay a portion of the health law shows he cannot be trusted to fully implement any new immigration law, including provisions to bolster border security.\nOn Thursday, more than 90 Catholic college presidents sent letters to all Catholic House members, including Speaker John Boehner, urging them to support a comprehensive immigration bill.\n“We hope that as you face intense political pressure from powerful interest groups, you will draw wisdom and moral courage from our shared faith tradition. Catholic teaching values the human dignity and worth of all immigrants, regardless of legal status. We remind you that no human being made in the image of God is illegal,” they wrote.\nIn a telephone conference with reporters, University of Notre Dame President John Jenkins was asked about other actions the university presidents would take to get House members to pass an immigration bill.\n“We thought about revoking their degrees,” Jenkins joked before admitting, “We don’t have a lot of authority over them.”\nCatholic organizations are planning radio ads, telephone “town halls” with local Catholic leaders, newspaper op-eds and other events to rally support.\nBoehner, at his weekly news conference, stood firm on his position that the House would pass “common-sense” legislation.\n“Americans expect, as a nation of laws, that we’ll enforce them - starting at the border,” Boehner said. “They expect that no one who broke our laws will get special treatment.”}}
{{Kelly Wilson is the newest and youngest member of the UNICEF USA National Board, and is Chair of the UNICEF Next Generation (NextGen) Los Angeles Steering Committee. She is Director of Corporate Responsibility at Warner Brothers.\nJust last month, I traveled with UNICEF from Mexico City to Chiapas, the southern Mexico state bordering Guatemala. I was there to meet migrant children stuck in Mexican shelters. Most had fled from Guatemala, Nicaragua, Honduras and El Salvador. I wanted to know what their lives were like, what they were running from, what they dreamed of for their futures — and how I could help.\nSince then, both Mexico City and Mexico’s Pacific coast have been hit by magnitude-7.1 and magnitude-8.1 earthquakes. There are 245 dead from collapsed buildings and bridges in five states and in the capital. As I write, more people are being pulled from the rubble. A rescue operation works to pull a young girl, who has been able to wiggle her fingers, from a collapsed school.\n© ALFREDO ESTRELLA/AFP/Getty Images\nMy first thought after learning of these devastating earthquakes was of the children I met with UNICEF. Even before having to grapple with a natural disaster, these kids were among the most challenged people in the world. They are growing up with staggering levels of violence and deprivation.\nMigrants have many reasons for fleeing their homes: debilitating poverty, gang warfare, terror inspired by some of the world’s highest murder rates, persecution, a crippling lack of opportunity, the reunification of families divided by borders. For the vast majority, leaving everything behind and starting over in a place where they are disadvantaged and often unwelcome is a heart-wrenching decision. They know that en route they might be maimed, molested, enslaved by child traffickers or even killed. But they leave anyway, because they feel that they have no choice.\nImagine the child for whom the best option is to strike out alone, terrified, on a dangerous journey. Imagine the parent who sends a teen away because, despite myriad potentially deadly pitfalls, it’s safer than staying at home.\n© Jessica Dineen\nIn fiscal year 2017, 38,495 children age 17 or younger, unaccompanied by their parents, were apprehended at the U.S./Mexican border. By far the largest group — almost 14,000 — came from Guatemala. More than 71,400 families (children under 18 traveling with a parent or legal guardian) were apprehended at the U.S./Mexico border in 2017.\nMany of the children we met were teens, intercepted on their journey by the Mexican government and now living in “closed-door shelters,” where they are detained. At one shelter, we played soccer and did breakdancing routines with some of the teens. We played a board game provided by UNICEF that is a version of Snakes & Ladders with real-life problems and solutions experienced by kids on the run. UNICEF routinely visits these shelters to ensure that the children are given learning materials, counseling and proper healthcare and that they are aware of their right to apply for asylum.\n© UNICEF USA/Rebecca Yale\nWe met only one child who said that if he were sent back, he would not try again to escape his situation in his country of origin. “I’m tired,” he said dejectedly. All of the others said that if they were sent back, they would try again to escape. And again. We asked the boys who were quietly playing the board game, "Where are you headed?" “Houston.” “Tijuana.” “Tennessee.” “New Jersey.” “Cancun.” “Florida.”\nThe reality is that 98% of them will be sent back to their countries of origin and to the poverty, violence and persecution they likely faced there. Some of the children caught at the border are kept in detention for weeks, or months. Unaccompanied children may face years of uncertainty as their cases go before immigration courts.\nOne of the girls scooped up by the government as she fled with no guardian was just 9 years old.\n© UNICEF USA/Rebecca Yale\nI made this journey to Mexico with UNICEF NextGen, a group of leaders, entrepreneurs and innovators in our 20’s and 30’s who are committed to inspiring our generation to take action and support UNICEF’s work. Ask any member of NextGen about UNICEF, and you will hear an impassioned plea for saving and protecting children all across the world, with special attention to those that are the most vulnerable and hardest to reach. What better way for the fortunate to give back than to save the lives of the next generation, so that they can build the future?\nFor UNICEF NextGen, there’s no “clicktivism.” We conduct in-depth studies of issues affecting children, and then we choose projects to support via fundraising and consulting. We have regular opportunities to go “into the field” and meet the people who would benefit from our work. Our commitment to funding a proposal to help migrant children follows a project focused on Syrian refugee women. Arriving in Mexico City, NextGen members had hailed from all across the United States. One had come directly from her own wedding. By 4:45 the next morning, we were headed for the southern border.\n© UNICEF USA/Rebecca Yale\nIt’s hard to prepare for what we saw in the days that followed. How do you prepare for meeting a mother who, after escaping the terror of gang violence in Guatemala and crossing with her three children aged 9, 13 and 15, lost her 15-year-old son a few days before we arrived? Our UNICEF Mexico guide said that he was likely kidnapped to be used for work or sex or even to harvest his organs.\nIt’s hard to know how to respond when a young mother, asked what message she would have for Americans wondering about her family's plight, says, “Tell them we are human.”\n© UNICEF USA/Rebecca Yale\nWe traveled with several UNICEF partners and UNICEF Mexico staff, including Country Representative Cristian Skoog. After the earthquakes, he made this statement to the press gathered amid the destruction: "We need your solidarity and the support of all Mexicans in this very difficult time. Your support, your solidarity, your help. We count on you."\nUNICEF NextGen has a ready response: We can be counted on. We support UNICEF because UNICEF is there for these kids — literally. UNICEF works in 190 countries and territories. UNICEF is in Mexico, helping the migrant children and others who are the most vulnerable, especially when disaster hits.\nMeanwhile, UNICEF NextGen members are back in the United States doing what we do best: working our networks, “pounding the pavement” to raise the funds UNICEF needs to improve, protect and save these children’s lives. We will help UNICEF work toward a more just process for migrant children — including once they enter the U.S., should they be lucky enough to cross the border into our land of relative fortune and freedom. Young people need protection every step of the way — at home, along the journey and at their destinations.\n© UNICEF USA/Rebecca Yale\nAs Mexico struggles with the aftermath of two earthquakes, I believe that I, as a member of UNICEF NextGen, have a responsibility to keep my eye trained to the needs of the children there. We never lose sight of the fact that a child is a child, no matter the turmoil. In every situation, all children deserve a chance to grow up in a safe place with people who love and encourage them. All children and young people deserve a quality education. All children deserve to live with hope. All children deserve the opportunity to build their futures.\nSupport UNICEF's earthquake relief efforts in Mexico.\nSupport UNICEF's work with child migrants in Central America.\nHelp child migrants and refugees.\nLearn more about UNICEF Next Generation.}}
{{The Christmas Truce in 1914, during World War I, as depicted by the Illustrated London News.\nOn a frosty, starlit night, a miracle took place. In 1914, a melody drifted over the darkness of No Man’s Land. First “O, Holy Night,” then “God Save the King.”\nPeeking over their trenches for what must have been the first time in weeks, British soldiers were surprised to see Christmas trees lit with candles on the parapets of the enemy’s trenches.\nThen a shout: “You no shoot, we no shoot!”\nThe Christmas Truce was a brief, spontaneous cease-fire that spread up and down the western front of World War I. It’s also a symbol of the peace on Earth and goodwill toward humans so often lacking not just on the battlefront but in our everyday lives.\nIn that spirit, the National World War I Museum and Memorial in Kansas City has published an online gallery of hundreds of accounts of such Christmas truces — letters home from soldiers that were published in British papers.\n[A lost battalion. A war hero. And a heartbreaking suicide.]\nHere, a sampling of these letters shows the variety and wonder of the Christmas Truce:\n“This has been the most wonderful Christmas I have ever struck. We were in the trenches on Christmas Eve, and about 8.30 the firing was almost at a stand still. Then the Germans started shouting across to us, ‘a happy Christmas’ and commenced putting up lots of Christmas trees with hundreds of candles on the parapets of their trenches.” — Cpl. Leon Harris, 13th (Kensington) Battalion London Regiment\n“At 2 am on Christmas morning a German band played a couple of German tunes and then ‘Home, Sweet Home’ very touchingly which made some fellows think a bit. After they played ‘God Save The King’ and we all cheered.” — Pvt. H. Dixon, Royal Warwickshire Regiment\n“We would sing a song or a carol first and then they would sing one and I tell you they can harmonise all right.” — Pvt. G. Layton, A Company, 1st Royal Warwickshire Regiment of the British Expeditionary Force\n“Half-way they were met by four Germans, who said they would not shoot on Christmas Day if we did not. They gave our fellows cigars and a bottle of wine and were given a cake and cigarettes. When they came back I went out with some more of our fellows and we were met by about 30 Germans, who seemed to be very nice fellows. I got one of them to write his name and address on a postcard as a souvenir. All through the night we sang carols to them and they sang to us and one played ‘God Save the King’ on a mouth organ.” — Rifleman C.H. Brazier, Queen’s Westminsters of Bishops Stortford\nGerman and British soldiers stand together on the battlefield near Ploegsteert, Belgium, during the Christmas Truce. (Imperial War Museum/AP)\n“We soon came up to them. About 30 could speak English. One fellow wanted a letter posted to his sweetheart in London.” — Gunner Masterton\n“Between the trenches there were a lot of dead Germans whom we helped to bury. In one place where the trenches are only 25 yards apart we could see dead Germans half-buried, their legs and gloved hands sticking out of the ground. The trenches in this position are so close that they are called ‘The Death Trap’, as hundreds have been killed there.” — A junior officer\n[The U.S. joined the ‘Great War’ 100 years ago. America and warfare were never the same.]\n“On Christmas Day we were out of the trenches along with the Germans, some of whom had a song and dance, while two of our platoons had a game of football. It was surprising to see the German soldiers — some appeared old, others were boys, and others wore glasses . . . A number of our fellows have got addresses from the Germans and are going to try and meet one another after the war.” — Pvt. Farnden, Rifle Brigade\n“On our right was a regiment of Prussian Guards and on our left was a Saxon regiment. On Christmas morning some of our fellows shouted across to them saying that if they would not fire our chaps would meet them half-way between the trenches and spend Christmas as friends. They consented to do so. Our chaps at once went out and when in the open Prussians fired on our men killing two and wounding several more. The Saxons, who behaved like gentlemen, threatened the Prussians if they did the same trick again. Well, during Christmas Day our fellows and the Saxons fixed up a table between the two trenches and they spent a happy time together, and exchanged souvenirs and presented one another with little keepsakes.” — A British soldier\n“One of our men was given a bottle of wine in which to drink the King’s health. The regiment actually had a football match with the Germans who beat them 3-2.” — A British officer\nAmerican filmmaker Wilbur H. Durborough and his cameraman, Irving G. Ries, made a documentary about the German army during World War I. This video shows snippets from "On the Firing Line With the Germans," which was released in 1915. (Courtesy: Library of Congress)\n“You said I should probably hardly know it was Christmas Day, but far from it; we had a most extraordinary day and quite different from others . . . Lots of English and Germans met between the two lines and had talks . . . there were bicycle races on bikes without tyres found in the ruins of the house.” — A British officer\n“A hundred yards or so in the rear of our trenches there were houses that had been shelled. These were explored with some of the regulars and we found old bicycles, top-hats, straw hats, umbrellas etc. We dressed ourselves up in these and went over to the Germans. It seemed so comical to see fellows walking about in top-hats and with umbrellas up. Some rode the bicycles backwards. We had some fine sport and made the Germans laugh.” — Brazier\n“I daresay you will be surprised at me writing a letter on such paper as this, but you will be more surprised when I tell you that it contained cake given to one of our men by a German officer on Christmas Day, and that I was given some of it . . . We were able to bury our dead, some of whom had been lying there for six weeks or more. We are still on speaking terms with them, so that we have not fired a shot at them up to now (Dec. 29), neither have they, so that the snipers on each side have had a rest.” — Pvt. Alfred Smith, 1st Battalion Royal Warwickshire Regiment\n“Really you would hardly have thought we were at war. Here we were, enemy talking to enemy. They like ourselves with mothers, with sweethearts, with wives waiting to welcome us home again. And to think within a few hours we shall be firing at each other again.” — Masterson\nRead more Retropolis:\nGen. George Patton’s wife put a Hawaiian curse on his ex-mistress. She was dead within days.\nThe Harlem Hellfighters were captured in a famous photo. Now a retired archivist has uncovered their stories.\nA young photographer took this harrowing image of the Vietnam War. He didn’t live to see it published.\nAs a vote on entering World War I approached, the only woman in Congress faced an agonizing choice\nThey were smoke jumpers when the CIA sent them to Laos. They came back in caskets.\nThe savage fight for Guadalcanal: Jungle, crocodiles and snipers during World War II}}
{{The dastardly reality TV star’s flirtation with a federal leadership bid is sending the Conservative party into convulsions. There’s never been a better time to be an opinionated blowhard in politics, but is Canada really ready for Prime Minister O’Leary?\nThe dastardly reality TV star’s flirtation with a federal leadership bid is sending the Conservative party into convulsions. There’s never been a better time to be an opinionated blowhard in politics, but is Canada really ready for Prime Minister O’Leary?\nJust as Dr. Evil has his likeness chiselled into a mountain lair, the Entertainment District offices of the O’Leary Financial Group are decorated in wall-to-wall Kevin O’Leary. There are multiple stacks of his three books, his face glowering or grinning on the covers, and atop a fake Christmas tree, where an angel would normally perch, someone has stuck an enormous paper cut-out of O’Leary’s face. An O’Leary piñata—presumably filled with gold bullion—sits on a cabinet. Shelves overflow with awards and plaques. (O’Leary points out the best male villain statue he got at the 2014 Reality TV Awards. “I’m proudest of that one,” he says.) The walls are dominated by large, framed prints of O’Leary’s own photographs (of note: a self-portrait of a bearded, topless, 20-something O’Leary). Wine guides sit next to bottles of O’Leary’s Fine Wines. Everywhere O’Leary looks, he can see his face, his name, his many incarnations and enterprises.\nThis hall of mirrors doubles as a TV studio: the remote-controlled Azzurro production system includes two digital video cameras on the right side of O’Leary’s desk, a touchscreen controller to his left and a large Samsung backdrop that allows him to go on CNBC without putting on his shoes, never mind getting on a plane. Earlier in the day, he did his regular hit on BNN’s Market Call and appeared on the Marilyn Denis Show, where he exhorted viewers to abandon home ownership (in the Uber age, he suggests, why not rent everything?). Now he will appear on CNBC’s Closing Bell, to argue that Apple, in the wake of a disappointing earnings report, is no longer worth its price tag. He lowers the blinds, adjusts a couple of lights and inserts an earpiece. He does a winking sound check: “Tonawanda in flames, film at 11.” I’m sitting beside his desk, watching him on an iPad, and my eyes dart back and forth from real O’Leary to televised O’Leary to all the O’Leary effigies that surround us. It feels like a reboot of Being John Malkovich, written, directed and produced by Kevin O’Leary.\nThe 62-year-old O’Leary is, of course, Canada’s most famous businessman and arguably the country’s most successful television export since William Shatner. It’s difficult to tell where one role ends and the other begins, and whether or not that matters. O’Leary has monetized his entire existence, and it’s a genius hustle, really. As the ubiquitous, loud-mouthed dark lord of ABC’s reality TV show Shark Tank, he can promote his own products and services while ferreting out new ones to profit from. At the moment, O’Leary Ventures owns a piece of some 20 small businesses, including Wicked Good Cupcakes, Voyage-Air Guitar and IllumiBowl, which produces a motion-activated night light that attaches to your toilet. Estimates put his net worth somewhere between $300 million and $400 million. When I put the question to him directly, he demurred: “My mother taught me it’s bad karma to boast about wealth.”\nWhen you’re on TV as much as O’Leary is, you don’t really ever take off your makeup (O’Leary carries his own kit everywhere, in a small black nylon bag). You also develop a signature look. He wears only one thing in public: black bespoke suit (made by Obama’s tailor, Martin Greenfield—O’Leary has more than 20 of them), white shirt, black Prada or Hermès tie. His French cuffs are adorned, archly, with silver skull cufflinks. His own bald skull, thanks to the makeup, is the colour of sandblasted brick. If George Costanza played a hit man in a Tarantino movie, he might look something like this.\nWhile O’Leary continues to pontificate on financial matters, he has also turned his attention, loudly and acutely, to politics. At every opportunity, he has trolled Justin Trudeau, Kathleen Wynne and Alberta premier Rachel Notley, merrily mocking their fiscal policies. And then, in January, he announced that he might run for the leadership of the Conservative Party of Canada. The very idea induced panic attacks in some Tories. It also tapped into the same kind of disenfranchised, right-wing populism that’s led elsewhere to Trump and Brexit. In May, a Forum Research poll indicated that Conservative voters were more likely to elect O’Leary as their leader than Peter MacKay, Rona Ambrose or four other possible candidates.\nHe’s still flirting with the top job, but also says he might throw his support behind another candidate he likes or offer his services as finance minister. It’s been a long, slow, sadistic tease, one that O’Leary is relishing. “I don’t give a damn about the party,” he told me. “They’re losers. The Conservative brand means nothing.”\nIn O’Leary’s 2011 memoir, Cold Hard Truth, the word “money” appears 304 times. For O’Leary, money is motivation and inspiration. It’s also practically sentient. When he talks about mistakes his money managers made in the 2000s, he writes, in all seriousness, “I could hear my money asking, ‘Why? Why are you doing this to us?’ ”\nO’Leary claims to be descended from an ancient line of Phoenician merchants, but he learned most of what he knows about business from his Lebanese-Canadian mother, Georgette Bookalam. She was the CEO of a Montreal children’s clothing company called Kiddies Togs. She and Terry O’Leary, a Kiddies Togs salesman, met in 1951, and Kevin was born in 1954. A brother, Shane, arrived two years later.\nAt Bookalam’s knee, little Kevin learned that he should save a third of every paycheque, invest only in stocks that pay a dividend and, above all else, avoid debt (“a cancer,” according to O’Leary). Terry, meanwhile, taught him other lessons. An outgoing, garrulous Irishman, he could sell anything, and Kevin loved watching him work. He also played cards, caroused and drank too much. When Kevin was seven, his parents divorced, and Bookalam got custody of the kids. She remarried a sober-minded Egyptian named George Kanawaty, who was doing his PhD in business at the University of Illinois. The family relocated there, and later to Switzerland, where Kanawaty worked for the UN. They moved back to Canada when Kevin was 16. The teenage O’Leary liked to party, he liked to drive fast (he totalled Bookalam’s BMW running a red light), and he liked to take pictures (fashion photographer Francesco Scavullo was an idol).\nOver the years, O’Leary has burnished a few choice beats in his personal story. One of these is his first real job. In high school, he got a gig at an ice cream parlour, thinking it would be a good place to meet girls. On his second day, his boss told him to scrape some gum up off the floor. O’Leary refused, insisting he had been hired to scoop ice cream. He was fired immediately. With tears in his eyes, O’Leary biked home. His stepfather explained his mistake, that he was there to serve the person who owned the business, whether he liked it or not. It was a Damascene moment. O’Leary vowed that he would never work for anybody ever again. “To be happy,” he writes, “I would need to be in charge of my own destiny. I would need to become the boss.”\nHow you feel about Kevin O’Leary depends on how you feel about capitalism itself. If, like me, you feel that within every rich person beats the heart of a pirate, well, he’s a rapacious Bluebeard. On the other hand, if you think the wealthy make their money through hard work, pluck and balls-to-the-wall tenacity, then O’Leary’s your dark knight, a paragon of the winner-take-all free market.\nThat persona first emerged at Western, where O’Leary got his MBA. While there, he made a documentary about the program, and that experience led him to form a production company that created Don Cherry’s Grapevine, the interview show that turbocharged Cherry’s TV career. O’Leary sold that business in 1983, making enough for a down payment on a house on Shaw Street.\nHe’d make his real fortune in a somewhat different industry: software. O’Leary was an early adopter of the personal computer. In 1983, out of his basement on Shaw, he co-founded a start-up called SoftKey, which made software for offices. The business was characterized by ruthless efficiency and rapid growth, and by 1996, it had relocated to Boston and taken on the name of one of its many acquisitions, the Learning Company (TLC). In the ’90s, TLC was the biggest educational software company in the world. “Kevin was an early version of Mark Zuckerberg,” his former CFO Scott Murray says. “He was thoughtful about what the market might become even when it wasn’t there.”\nBeing a proto-Zuckerberg meant long hours and single-minded focus. Somehow, O’Leary found time to date and, in 1990, married Linda Greer, a student at U of T. They held a wedding party at the house on Shaw, and ordered pizza when they ran out of food. They had two kids, Savannah and Trevor, but O’Leary was so fixated on SoftKey, his other baby, he hardly saw them.\nIn 1999, Mattel bought TLC for $3.6 billion, and O’Leary joined Mattel in the takeover. But six months later, after large increases in his salary and severance package—and O’Leary selling most of his Mattel stock for $6 million—he was gone, fired when the TLC division lost millions. BusinessWeek, meanwhile, called the Mattel takeover one of the worst business deals of all time, and shareholders launched a class-action lawsuit, accusing O’Leary et al. of fudging the books and misleading investors. Mattel settled in 2003 for $122 million. “Anyone who can pick a corporate pocket for $3.6 billion is a pretty cool customer,” Time magazine wrote with grudging admiration. O’Leary still stands by the Mattel deal. “People criticize deals every day. It’s part of being in business,” he says. “I don’t apologize for the deal in any way.”\nPost-TLC, the 46-year-old O’Leary bought the fanciest camera money could buy and spent a year hanging out on the finest beaches in St. Barts, Barbados, and Turks and Caicos. But being the world’s wealthiest beach bum wasn’t enough. After a few other entrepreneurial ventures, it dawned on him that the thing Kevin O’Leary might be best at selling was Kevin O’Leary. Over drinks at One in Yorkville, he met his friend Gene McBurney, a lawyer and investment banker. “You know what I’m going to do, Gene,” he said. “I’m going to brand myself.”\nFun fact: Kevin O’Leary is allergic to garlic. We’re having lunch at Nota Bene with Alex Kenjeev, the president of O’Leary Ventures and O’Leary’s right-hand man, and O’Leary has just ordered venison tortellini. When the food arrives, he realizes he didn’t mention the allergy to our server. He sends the food back, slightly sheepish, and orders a lobster salad instead. Kenjeev looks at me. “Kevin’s embarrassed to say it, so I will. It’s because…he’s a vampire.” O’Leary grins obligingly. When he was producing Don Cherry’s Grapevine, O’Leary watched Cherry morph from colour commentator to iconic TV personality. Along the way, he picked up some pointers: “Always be the antagonist, not the protagonist—being the good guy’s not interesting.” Vampires are interesting. As are assholes, jerks and bullies.\nThis was the world view with which O’Leary embarked on his own television career. By 2009, he was starring in two CBC shows. On The Lang and O’Leary Exchange, O’Leary was a right-wing attack dog, while the centrist Amanda Lang held his leash. Their chemistry was as palpable as it was baffling. While his knee-jerk paternalism occasionally got under her skin—“Don’t worry your pretty little head,” he’d scoff—Lang was impressed by O’Leary’s self-possession. “He’s one of the most confident people I’ve ever met,” she says. “And I mean confident in every way—he thinks he’s the most handsome guy in the room, the smartest guy in the room….” O’Leary still refers to Lang as his “TV wife.”\nMeanwhile, on Dragon’s Den, the CBC’s venture capital game show, O’Leary worked a different kind of charm. When asked during an audition how he would characterize his style, O’Leary said, with just a whisper of irony, “I’m a wonderful guy. I start there. I’m Mr. Wonderful.” The sobriquet stuck. By its third season, O’Leary had expertly honed the persona: a smarter-than-thou blowhard known for his brutal honesty and an arsenal of abrasive, T-shirt-ready catchphrases (“You’re dead to me,” remains a favourite). Off-screen, he is a degree or two more subdued, even conciliatory. But he really doesn’t care if viewers think he’s Gordon Gekko’s more abhorrent cousin. He’s unlike anybody on Canadian TV because he doesn’t seem Canadian at all. “What you think of Kevin doesn’t weigh heavily on him,” says Lisa Gabriele, a former Dragon’s Den showrunner and O’Leary’s ghostwriter for Cold Hard Truth. “You could either say that’s somebody who has a quiet inner life, who is at peace, or you could say that’s a sociopath. Who knows?”\nFor O’Leary, television was an amusing diversion at first. Then it became a licence to print money. His name started to mean something—to both haters and hagiographers. A couple of years ago, he was handed an even bigger megaphone. Mark Burnett, producer of Survivor and The Apprentice, invited him to audition for Shark Tank, the American version of Dragon’s Den. O’Leary got the job and quickly became that particular circus’s star attraction. He’s now a bigger celebrity in the States than he is here. On ads for the show, he’s called “the Shark with the sharpest teeth.”\nEvery season, 29 episodes of Shark Tank are taped on the Sony lot in L.A. during two marathon sessions, one in early summer, the other in the fall. Over the course of a 12-hour day, the Sharks see a dozen pitches. The negotiations are not the expertly edited 10-minute things that finally air but protracted, hour-long sparring matches. Alex Kenjeev flies down with him and watches them all, sitting behind the camera. When O’Leary hired him to run O’Leary Ventures four years ago, Kenjeev had only seenDragon’s Den a couple of times. “I expected to be abused a little bit,” he says. O’Leary surprised him. He was patient, open-minded, didn’t take himself too seriously. The one time Kenjeev got in trouble, ironically, was when he got too aggressive with one of the entrepreneurs. “Kevin said, ‘You can’t be like that.’ And I was like, ‘What do you mean? I thought that was what we do here.’ He said, ‘No, Alex, you have to build relationships.’ ”\nLast season, viewers finally saw O’Leary crack. A writer and self-described Internet entrepreneur named Maneesh Sethi tried to get the Sharks to invest in something called Pavlok, a programmable wristband that shocks its users every time they perform a bad habit. While the rest of the Sharks bailed—Mark Cuban called Sethi a con artist—O’Leary was genuinely interested. But after O’Leary tabled his bid, Sethi balked. “I would take an offer from anybody besides Mr. Wonderful,” he said. He wasn’t there to make money, he claimed, but rather to help people. He thought O’Leary would scare them off. O’Leary was stunned but retaliated quickly: “Maneesh? You’re an asshole. Get the fuck out of here,” he sniped. “Fuck you.” Sethi left the set without a deal.\nO’Leary was genuinely angry and hurt. The other Sharks consoled him. After they were done taping, an on-set psychiatrist, usually there to counsel contestants, checked in on him. Talking about the episode a few months later, O’Leary was still pissed off and a bit defensive. “I’m always being myself on that show,” he said. “I’m just like everybody else. I come from a middle-class family. I feel everybody’s pain.”\nA few years ago, just as Shark Tank was taking off, O’Leary and his wife split up. He was never home, and Linda didn’t like it. When he returned to Toronto, he moved into a Yorkville rental. “I did the L.A. celebrity overboard thing,” O’Leary says now, “and it got tired pretty damn fast.” After a few months, O’Leary looked around at his divorced friends, and they were all miserable. He and Linda reconciled.\nNow, making up for lost time, O’Leary has become, in his own workaholic, scheduled-to-the-second way, a family man. He spends as much time as possible with his kids—a logistical nightmare given that his 23-year-old daughter, Savannah, lives in New York, where she’s a multimedia producer at Huffington Post, and 19-year-old Trevor is a McGill engineering student. (He even blew off the White House correspondents’ dinner to make time for them.) When he’s in Canada, he and Linda split their time between their five-bedroom, 150-year-old Rosedale mansion and a cottage on Lake Joseph. The Rosedale house has a wine cellar, a gym and what O’Leary calls a “technology centre,” where he can simultaneously watch five screens at a time, monitoring the markets and news networks. His workday starts early—he gets up between 4:30 and 6 a.m., and spends an hour on a stationary bike while reading a bunch of business sections (the New York Times, the Globe, the Post, the Wall Street Journal).\nThe O’Learys’ biggest extravagances are travel and wine. They store thousands of bottles in five cellars in four countries, and Linda helps blend O’Leary’s Fine Wines in Napa and Niagara. (They named their cabernet franc reserve after Trevor.) They travel 181 days a year, the maximum number they can be gone while still maintaining Canadian residency. They ping-pong between Toronto, Boston, New York, L.A. and Florida just about every week. In Boston, they own a house in Back Bay. In other cities, O’Leary will rent several hotel suites, one of which he’ll turn into a studio. They used to have a private plane, but O’Leary sold it seven years ago. He calls it a “shitty, shitty investment.”\nWhen you’re an O’Leary kid, every moment is potentially a teachable one—while he and Linda fly first class, the kids go coach. As his mother did with him, O’Leary promised his children that he’d pay all their living expenses until they were out of school, and they could stay in school as long as they wanted. After that, they were on their own. No inheritance. (If they have kids, his trust is set up to do the same for them.) “I’m not a big fan of gifting huge amounts of capital to teenagers,” he says. “That’s a really stupid idea. My kids are being prepared for life after Daddy.”\nI didn’t think I’d like Kevin O’Leary. I’ve seen maybe half an episode of Shark Tank, but I watched him frequently enough on The Lang and O’Leary Exchange to consider him, at best, a third-rate Bill O’Reilly wannabe. After meeting him in April, and then talking with him every few weeks after that, my feelings became more complicated. I still disagree with half of what he says, and his monumental confidence is as monotonous as it is seductive. At the same time, I found him endearing in the inscrutable, alien way that savants can be. I admire his focus, which seems superhuman. I could see it when he did his TV hits. Forgive the analogy, but with his earpiece in, mike on, eyes half-closed, brain tuned to god knows what, he’s like a shark gliding through the water. Contained, threatening. When an interviewer puts a contrarian question to him, O’Leary pounces, his voice gets louder and more bellicose, his eyes gleam, and a narrow spectrum of emotion—disdain, irritation, condescension—plays across his face.\nIt isn’t exactly like watching him play a role, but rather like watching him embody his brand. When you’re a brand, it’s hard to be a person. It can’t be easy to constantly project and maintain the image of mastery and triumph. “The thing you don’t prepare for is that everybody knows you but you don’t know them,” he says almost plaintively. “You reach so many people in their homes and there’s a natural tendency for them to feel extremely close to you. I get that. But it’s a very uncomfortable feeling.”\nSome of those people approached us when we were getting coffee in a Financial District food court. A scruffy kid with a skateboard passed by, saw us, and yelled, “You the man, Kevin!” Seconds later, a fan approached with an iPad and asked if he could take a selfie with O’Leary. “Sure, man,” O’Leary said, breaking into a weak smile. “This must happen all the time to you,” I said. “It takes more energy to say no,” he replied with a shrug. Lenny Kravitz told him that.\nThe first week I met O’Leary, he’d just come back from QVC headquarters outside of Philadelphia, where he’d spent 12 hours standing in front of the cameras talking about his wine like it could cure cancer. “They’ve never sold that much wine in one day,” he says. “We launched four varietals in 20 hours and did $2.7 million.” He says he’ll be selling $20 million worth of O’Leary wines in the next two years.\nNorm Hardie doesn’t go on QVC. Norm Hardie has probably never even watched QVC. And that’s one of the secrets to O’Leary’s success. He’s a shameless shill. But it’s one thing to put your money where your mouth is, it’s another to put your mouth—and face, brain and heart—where your money is. When I ask where he’s putting money these days, he happily tells me about the recent success of Wicked Good Cupcakes, a company that sells desserts in jars and one of his early Shark Tank investments. “They sold their millionth jar yesterday,” he says. “You gotta remember, I make 45 cents on every jar. That’s a $450,000 return off $75,000—pretty damn good.” A few minutes later, he tells me with Trumpian certainty about how well his ETF company is doing: “I’ve invested millions in O’Shares. Its growth is remarkable.”\nBeing an entrepreneur, O’Leary says with pre-emptive spin, means you’re going to fail at some point. Of the 10 most successful businesses to come out of Shark Tank, he invested in only one. He put $100,000 into a company called Toygaroo (the “Netflix of toys”), which went under a year later. He’s having trouble making back the $2.5 million he sank into Zipz Wine, a single-serving wine container. He recently sold the underperforming O’Leary Funds, and his mortgage start-up was shuttered before it really got going.\nNot everyone thinks O’Leary’s as good a businessman as O’Leary does. Some, like the left-leaning economist Armine Yalnizyan, have pleaded with him to leave the country for good. Mark McQueen, the Toronto investment guru, has become both O’Leary’s self-appointed Boswell and his bête noire, taking to his blog on the Wellington Financial site to ridicule O’Leary’s every move, financial or otherwise. In January, in a blog post published after O’Leary announced his possible bid for the Tory leadership, you could practically feel McQueen’s spittle on your face: “There’s no doubt that it must appeal to him as a publicity stunt, but, even then, it’s his most outlandish one yet.”\nLeary gets his hair cut every 10 days. He goes to Truefitt and Hill, in the bowels of Brookfield Place, part of a British chain that bills itself as the oldest barbershop in the world. It’s a classic O’Leary spot: there’s a patina of old-school, old-world luxury—you can get your shoes shined while you get your trim; the barbers wear ties and provide brief massages. An amiable barber named David Elgrichi has been cutting O’Leary’s hair since 2009. When O’Leary told Elgrichi that he was considering a political career, Elgrichi was overjoyed. “If anybody can do it,” he says, “Kevin can.”\nWhether he can do it is less interesting than why he’d want to. O’Leary says it’s because he’s never been angrier at the way the country’s being run (he thought Harper did a pretty good job, by the way, and Mulroney was probably the best PM Canada ever had). He also proudly calls himself an opportunist, and there hasn’t been a political opportunity like this in a long time. Slow economic growth always favours politicians who focus on the economy, and it helps even more when those politicians are rich—the logic being that if they can still make money when the economy’s in the crapper, they must know what they’re doing.\nWhen it comes to the Tories, O’Leary’s timing couldn’t be better. Trudeau has had his difficult moments, but he continues to ride high in opinion polls. The Conservative party, O’Leary says, is damaged. An obvious new leader has yet to emerge, and of those who have declared, none have O’Leary’s profile. Meanwhile, the party has moved, gingerly, toward the left on some social issues. At the CPC conference in Vancouver last May, for example, it voted to finally remove a ban on same-sex marriage from its policy handbook. O’Leary himself is in favour of gay marriage, the decriminalization of marijuana and assisted suicide.\nSome Tories view his intentions with the same distaste that Bay Streeters view his TV career. He is a boorish interloper, untested and unrepresentative of the party’s values. He doesn’t speak French! He said, at one point, that he might even run for the Liberals! Sure, all the china in the shop might be broken, but they don’t want another bull in there. “He’s got nothing except being a TV star,” the Alberta MP and dean of the Conservative caucus Deepak Obhrai said in May. “It’s all about himself, not the party.” (Obhrai is also running for the leadership.)\nO’Leary doesn’t care what other Tories say about him. Politically, all he cares about is economic policy. His playbook might have been a script doctored by the Canadian Taxpayers Federation—the free market rules, government drools. If he ran the country, O’Leary would have a national referendum on pipelines, put Bombardier out of its misery, and dramatically reduce both personal and corporate tax. “I think every person who makes money in this country, whether it’s a dollar or a hundred million dollars, should pay 25 per cent personal tax. Corporate tax should be 15 per cent, no loopholes, no deductions.” Because we’re taxed so heavily, O’Leary argues, our best and brightest are fleeing the country, as is any substantial foreign investment. “There are only three topics: jobs, jobs, jobs,” he says.\nI’m reminded of something else Amanda Lang said about him: “Kevin has a first-class brain, and when he uses it to synthesize information, he’ll do it better than anyone. But every now and then, he reverts to an oversimplification that I know he’s too smart to believe. That’s what I think he has in common with dear Donald Trump.”\nThe night before this hair appointment in May, after taking his sweet time, O’Leary finally, officially, bought his Conservative party membership. “I couldn’t afford to join,” he says, dryly, “because I’m taxed too heavily by Kathleen Wynne.” (A year’s membership is less than half the price of the haircut.) Mention Wynne or, worse, Rachel Notley, and O’Leary unleashes a torrent of invective: “stupid,” “mediocre” and “incompetent.”\n“Think of me as a spatula,” he says. “I’ve got to scrape the crap out of there.” A week later, on his way back to L.A., he spent a day at the Conservative conference in Vancouver. Onstage, flanked by Rona Ambrose and Stockwell Day, O’Leary did his usual shtick for an audience of amused Tories. “When I hear the word ‘capital,’ I think of money,” he said, to laughter. “That’s all that matters to me.”\nIn July, O’Leary called me from his cottage dock in Muskoka, where he was having his morning coffee. He and Linda built the place in 2000. It’s 10,000 square feet, with eight bedrooms and 30-foot cathedral ceilings. It has a restaurant-grade kitchen, a wine cellar carved into the granite and, of course, a microwave tower so that O’Leary can broadcast from there. The place sleeps 22, so a lot of socializing takes place—twice a year, O’Leary hosts what he calls the CEO Summit, a gathering of all the execs from his companies, past and present.\nMike Harris had been up a week earlier, and Tony Clement, who’d just announced his own leadership bid, was visiting the next day. O’Leary thought he and Clement, both guitar nuts, might do a little jamming, but really, O’Leary just wanted to see what common ground they might share. Over the next few months, he plans to invite up everyone who declares their candidacy.\nIt occurred to me then that O’Leary, who recently signed on for two more seasons of Shark Tank, probably isn’t going to run at all. He thinks of politicians as his employees—his taxes pay their salaries—and he never wants to be an employee again. He’d have to give up a lot of money and freedom to enter a tedious, gruelling political campaign that, to most people, is barely more desirable than scraping gum off the floor of an ice cream parlour.\nA far more likely scenario is that O’Leary is going to treat every leadership candidate like he treats every contestant who’s ever stood before him on TV—he’ll get them to pitch him their platform, he’ll determine which is the smartest investment, and then he’ll lend that person, for better or worse, the power of his brand and his money. Call it Demagogue’s Den. He’s already doing this elsewhere. When Jason Kenney pulled out of the leadership race to run for the Conservatives in Alberta, O’Leary immediately offered to stump for him. “The number one mandate for Canadians is to get rid of Rachel Notley,” he says. “She’s killing this country. If she ran one of my companies, I’d have fired her a long time ago.”\nThe very fact that O’Leary occupies the centre of the conversation reminds me of something the late historian Tony Judt wrote: “We have substituted endless commerce for public purpose and expect no higher aspirations from our leaders.” For O’Leary, there is no higher aspiration than wealth. If making money means creating freedom, and politicians are wasting our money, that means they’re essentially taking away our freedom. Kevin O’Leary, freedom fighter? How far could the brand be extended? “Look,” he says. “I can leave, or I can fix it. I think I can fix it.”}}
{{As Rolling Stone observed, the outgoing system effectively let companies pay to climb the charts. YouTube's TrueView ads let marketers play shortened versions of videos that would count as views if you either watched for long enough or interacted with them. This let artists and labels game the system by purchasing enough ads to help a song rise to the top. Indian rapper Badshah managed to outperform K-pop megastars BTS through ads, Bloomberg added, while Blackpink, Taylor Swift and others also benefited from the approach.\nThe move won't necessarily lead to fewer music video ads. The promos still translate to greater exposure. However, it could force the industry to stagger those ads and think about longer-term success instead of bombarding users for a short period to artificially inflate views and claim a temporary victory. YouTube didn't have much choice as it is. As long as ads counted toward views, the credibility of its charts was tarnished. This theoretically ensures that chart toppers earn their positions through genuine demand.}}
{{charged graphic (Photo: WHAS)\nLEXINGTON, Ky. (AP) - Authorities say a former Kentucky school employee is facing rape charges, accused of having sex with an underage student.\nLocal media groups report Lindsey Banta Davis' attorney entered a not guilty plea to two counts of third-degree rape in Lexington District Court on Monday. Davis is also charged with third-degree rape, third-degree sodomy and unlawful transaction with a minor in Woodford County.\nVersailles police detective Steve Sparkman said the investigation into Jarvis' conduct with a boy under age 16 began after she resigned as a social studies teacher at Woodford County Middle School last year. She resigned Friday from a para-educator job she later took in Fayette County.\nAn arrest report says evidence indicates Jarvis, who is married, was in a romantic relationship with the boy.\n© 2017 Associated Press}}
{{We have one Fatherland, one people and a common future\nVladimir Putin We have one Fatherland, one people and a common future}}
{{Olympic alpine skiing legend Bode Miller is donating to water safety education following his daughter’s drowning death.\n“We are inspired to make our baby girl’s memory go forth and help prevent as many drownings as possible,” Miller, 40, posted on Instagram, along with a photo of him snuggling 19-month-old Emeline.\nMiller’s wife, Morgan Beck, was at a neighbor’s home in Orange County, Calif., this month when she suddenly realized their youngest daughter wasn’t with her – and rushed outside to see the child in the pool. The frantic mom pulled little Emeline out and started CPR, but the girl didn’t make it.\nFollowing the tragedy, the couple’s midwife, Lindsey Meehleis, set up a GoFundMe for them. Miller said Tuesday that the funds would be donated to foundations that teach water safety.\n“Our midwives started a gofundme campaign to raise funds and we intend to donate these funds raised to worthwhile causes connected to water safety education,” he said.\n“We want to thank our friends, family and every one of you who sent a message, said a prayer or donated for the overwhelming expression of support – we are truly touched and blessed,” he wrote.\nThe GoFundMe had raised $26,216 of its $40,000 goal as of Wednesday.\nA post shared by Bode Miller (@millerbode) on Jun 19, 2018 at 6:22pm PDT}}
{{HALIFAX — Somewhere on the North Atlantic, there's a small fleet of merchant ships headed for the port of Halifax, with crews that have spent Christmas Day at sea, far from their families.\nRev. Maggie Whittingham-Lamont knows all too well how those crew members are feeling.\n"Quite often, morale is very low aboard ships at Christmas," says the co-ordinator of Mission to Seafarers in Halifax, which is in an old house that sits at the edge of the harbour, amid towering grain elevators, railway tracks and cargo cranes.\n"It's such a poignant time, missing your family. And if you're on a ship without the Internet, you can't communicate. It's a difficult time."\nFor more than 20 years, she has led a campaign aimed at bringing seasonal cheer to these hard-working men and women, whose jobs keep them away from their homes for months at a time.\nEvery December and into mid-January, the energetic pastor and her small band of volunteers — she calls them her "elves" — offer the captain of each visiting commercial ship a special gift for every crew member, regardless of their religion.\nThe gifts are colourfully wrapped shoeboxes, each containing carefully chosen "items of comfort," such as toiletries and cold-weather apparel.\nThis year, the mission plans to distribute more than 1,500 boxes — many of them handed out by the captains on Christmas Day. But hundreds of others will be delivered well into next month to ensure those still at sea are not left out.\n"The guys are so happy when they see you arrive with the shoeboxes," says Whittingham-Lamont, a former nurse whose broad smile never seems to leave her face. "They're so thankful ... By letting them know that somebody, who they will likely never meet, cares enough to give a gift — well, it's wonderful when I go on-board."\nThe shoeboxes all contain the same items: a tuque, scarf, gloves or mittens, socks, wrapped hard candy, soap, toothpaste, toothbrush, shampoo, shaving foam, razors, deodorant, lip balm, playing cards and a small memento of Canada — typically a postcard, key ring or lapel pins.\nAlcohol and medications are forbidden, as is anything sharp. Chocolate is also kept out of the boxes because it takes on the scent of the soap and shampoo.\nMatthew Hughson, a heritage interpreter at the Maritime Museum of the Atlantic in Halifax, says the tradition of giving mariners gift-laden shoeboxes started in the 1900s. Shoeboxes continue to be the container of choice because they are easy to carry and easy to inspect.\n"A lot of the crew members are not well equipped for our cold weather," says Hughson, who helped put together 85 boxes at the museum. "Some would say (the contents) are kind of boring. But if you're at sea ... that shoebox can go a long way toward making life a little better on the ship."\nHundreds of completed boxes, which must not be sealed to allow for inspection by border officials, are typically donated to the mission by church groups, service clubs, offices, schools and individuals. Volunteers at the mission also assemble boxes using a stockpile of donated items.\nOne Halifax woman who knits throughout the year recently donated 260 scarves.\nAnd donations to the mission will keep coming in throughout the holidays, says Whittingham-Lamont.\n"I carry shoeboxes with me at all time at this time of year," she says, before heading to the harbourside, wearing a pink safety helmet and a fluorescent green safety jacket. "They are very practical gifts for the seafarers who arrive here, often without a hat, gloves or scarf."\nShe recalled once greeting a newly arrived sailor who had trudged through the snow wearing flip-flops.\nFor some sailors, the shoebox will be the only gift they get.\nThe non-profit agency, which is sponsored by the Anglican Church, has already given shoeboxes to crews from the Philippines, India, Russia, Tanzania, France, Romania, Bulgaria, Sri Lanka and Israel — to name a few.\n"It's nothing to find eight different nationalities on-board," the pastor says.\nThere are more than 200 missions around the world. They are sometimes called "Flying Angel Clubs," a reference to the organization's stylized logo, which depicts the angel in the Book of Revelations, who brings the gospel "to every nation and tribe, language and people."\nIn Canada, other seafarers missions can be found in Vancouver, Montreal, Quebec City, Saint John, N.B., and at the Ontario ports of Toronto, Hamilton, Sarnia, Windsor and Thunder Bay.\nInside the Halifax mission, seafarers have access to four computers and two private booths with telephones. There's a pool table, several big couches, a small canteen and, in the warmer months, there's a tiny yard outside with a patch of grass and a basketball hoop.\nThe walls of the cozy building are lined with photos of big ships and small pictures of crew members. And there's a large map of the world that is often at the centre of animated conversations.\nNormally, the mission has its own chapel, but that has been taken over by busy "elves" like Sylvia MacAskill, who has been putting together shoebox gifts for the past seven years.\n"It's a very rewarding effort because the seafarers need so many things when they come here from warm climates," she says, as she and two other woman sit at a long wooden table, sorting items and wrapping boxes. "Some of them come in with bare feet."\n---}}
{{Youtube/movieclipsLawyer Atticus Finch in “To Kill A Mockingbird”While many law school grads dream of making hundreds of thousands of dollars working in corporate law, there are some who want to make a difference by becoming a public defender or working for the Department of Justice.\nLaw schools in Virginia and D.C. dominate the National Law Journal’s list of the top 20 schools with grads in public interest or government jobs, showing that it’s easier to snag a government law job when you go to law school near the nation’s capital.\nHere are the top five law schools placing grads in government jobs, according to the National Law Journal:\n1. College of William and Mary Marshall – Wythe Law School — W&M was America’s first law school, and its curriculum centres around the ideal of the “citizen-lawyer,” a socially-conscious lawyer who defends the down-trodden and advocates for human rights. The school also offers more than 100 fellowships every summer for students who want to work in public service organisations.\n2. George Washington University Law School — G.W.’s Foggy Bottom campus is at the heart of government activity in downtown D.C. (just blocks from the State Department), making it easy for students to secure internships at federal organisations. The school runs several different legal clinics, an extensive public interest and pro bono program, and an on-campus public sector recruiting program.\n3. Florida State University College of Law — FSU’s law school may be 23rd on the U.S. News & World Report’s list, but it has one of the best criminal law programs in the south, as well as joint degree programs in public administration, social work and international affairs.\n4. City University of New York School of Law — CUNY has two programs that prepare lawyers to become public defenders or open practices that serve low-income communities. LaunchPad gives recent grads the opportunity to represent low-income clients in civil court, and Incubator trains lawyers who can successfully serve poor communities.\n5. University of South Dakota School of Law — South Dakota made headlines recently for offering to pay back some of lawyers’ law school loans if they agree to spend five years practicing law in one of the state’s rural towns. The state university’s law school also encourages students to find public interest jobs by running several legal clinics that serve poor and isolated communities, as well as local American Indian tribes.\nBusiness Insider Emails & Alerts Site highlights each day to your inbox. Email Address Join\nFollow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram.}}
{{President Muhammadu Buhari has signed the 2018 Appropriation Bill into law. The President assented to the bill on Wednesday at the Presidential Villa in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory. [SIZE=4]This and much more are in the Nigeria Bulletin new...}}
{{GATINEAU, Que. — Canada will be going for back-to-back bronze medals at the Pan American Cup.\nArgentina beat the Canadians in straight sets on Saturday in the tournament semifinals. Set scores were 25-23, 25-15 and 25-10.\nThe Canadian squad also fell to Argentina in group play earlier in the week, losing that match 3-0 as well.\n"Canada usually started well, but they lack experience and make many mistakes," Argentina coach Julio Velasco said.}}
{{Online pharmacy, Chemist 4 U, as part of their UK dental health study have uncovered some shocking findings. So if you’re planning a guilt-free gobble this December you may want to look away now.\n1. Festive hot drinks One of the worst culprits is that festive drink from your favourite coffee company with can contain upto 130% of your daily intake of sugar (30g). other Buy a Photo\n2. Christmas pudding The average serving of Christmas pudding contains a massive 41.9g of sugars, a staggering 139% of your DAILY intake. other Buy a Photo\n3. Cheeseboard If you fancy something thatll be a little kinder to your teeth then a cheeseboard offers a more angelic alternative. With the average serving containing only 1g of sugar. other Buy a Photo\n4. Mulled wine Mulled wine, the iconic Xmas beverage, contains a whopping 3 and a half spoonfuls of sugar per glass. Theres a reason it tastes so good! other Buy a Photo\nView more}}
{{ALAMEDA — Two years ago, Aracely Garcia Gonzales and her husband, Otto Alva Lopez, made a difficult decision.\nWith Otto already in the United States working to send money back home to Guatemala, they resolved that Aracely should join him and bring along their two youngest children, then 16 and 3.\nIt was a perilous journey north through Mexico, but the couple felt they had little choice. In Guatemala, they lived in grinding poverty and faced regular extortion demands from criminal gangs that prey on impoverished villagers and farmers. They also worried that their teenage son, Ottoniel, would be forced to join a gang.\nAt one point in their multiday journey, the packed bus Aracely and the children were riding in stopped by a lake in Mexico. It was the middle of the night, and they were supposed to catch a boat that would ferry them across the water.\nAracely was terrified that the boat would sink or that something else would stop them from making it across the U.S. border alive. Standing by the lake, with the moon hanging in the sky, she prayed.\n“And God listened to me by the shore,” she said. “He said you don’t have anything to be afraid of.”\nAracely and Otto have needed that faith throughout their lives, and certainly now as they try to make a new life in the United States.\nFortunately, they have some people on their side: staff from the Oakland Catholic Worker. Based in East Oakland, the nonprofit helps Latin American immigrants with food and temporary housing, as well as connecting them to legal, health and educational services. The family has applied for asylum but now worries that the incoming Trump administration could put that process in jeopardy.\nStill, Aracely said: “We feel so blessed.”\nOakland Catholic Worker has received funding for its holiday program this year from Share the Spirit, an annual campaign to enhance the holiday season for needy residents in the East Bay. The grant is administered by the Contra Costa Crisis Center, and donations support programs of 40 nonprofit agencies in Contra Costa and Alameda counties.\nWith a new baby boy, Yohandry, born on Christmas Eve last year, Aracely and Otto rent an apartment on the grounds of a church in Alameda. But that arrangement is temporary, and they will soon need to find more permanent housing.\nCertainly, life wasn’t easy back in Guatemala. On a small farm they scraped together a living by growing coffee. Handpicking beans is arduous, and 15 days of work might only yield 100 pounds of coffee and $100, Otto said.\n“Even without the violence, it was a hard life, picking and processing the coffee,” Otto said. “We lived in a village where only three in 10 families had electricity or a bathroom, and many families couldn’t afford to buy their children shoes.”\nStill, what they earned was enough to make them a target of gangs — the kind that have sent homicide rates in Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras soaring, and making them the three most dangerous countries in the Western hemisphere. In 2002, Otto was stabbed and almost died.\nAlso, the couple worried they wouldn’t be able to pay for their kids’ educations (school in Guatemala is free only through ninth grade). The couple also have two older children still in Guatemala: a daughter, 21, and son, 20, who is in medical school.\nOtto came to the United States in 2010. During his perilous 25-day journey, he knew of women who had been raped and men who had been kidnapped and forced to pay their own ransom. After crossing the desert into Arizona, he found his way to Oakland, where a relative set him up with work as a house painter.\nThe small amount he earned made a big difference to his family back home, but he wouldn’t see his wife and children for four years.\nWhen Aracely, Ottoniel and their daughter, Valentina, now 5, joined him in Oakland, the family felt ready to make a fresh start. Ottoniel enrolled at Oakland High School, and Aracely became pregnant. But they faced another setback when a fire broke out in their apartment building, and they were forced to leave their studio.\nFortunately, staff at Oakland High heard about the fire and contacted Oakland Catholic Worker. “They really had nowhere to go,” says Amber McChesney-Young, the nonprofit’s director.\nThese days, the organization continues to supply them with a weekly box of food. Otto said that as difficult as things are in the United States, he still appreciates how he can feed his children chicken and meat. Meanwhile, Aracely continues to remember that message she heard by the lake. “The Bible says God won’t give us anything more than we can handle. We’re here because he knew we could do it.”\nSHARE THE SPIRIT\nThe Share the Spirit campaign, sponsored by the Bay Area News Group, benefits needy residents of Alameda and Contra Costa counties by funding nonprofit holiday and outreach programs.\nTo make a tax-deductible contribution, clip the coupon accompanying this story or go to www.sharethespiriteastbay.org/donate/\nReaders with questions, and individuals or businesses interested in making large contributions, may contact the Contra Costa Crisis Center, which administers the fund, at 925-939-1916, ext. 408, or sharethespirit@crisis-center.org.}}
{{VATICAN CITY (CNS) — “Today, the Son of God is born, and everything changes,” Pope Francis said in a 2016 Christmas midnight Mass homily.\n“Today we once more discover who we are! Tonight we have been shown the way to reach the journey’s end,” he said, and “we must set out to see our savior lying in a manger.”\nThe reason for our joy: “This child has been ‘born to us’; He was ‘given to us,’” Pope Francis explained, quoting the prophet Isaiah.\nAnd now, 2,000 years later, “every man and woman” has been given the mission of making “the Prince of Peace” known and of “becoming His effective servant in the midst of the nations,” he said.\n“We must not be laggards,” the pope cautioned, “we are not permitted to stand idle.”\nAnd when we hear of the birth of the Prince of Peace, he said, “let us be silent and let the Child speak. Let us take His words to heart in rapt contemplation of His face. If we take Him in our arms and let ourselves be embraced by Him, He will bring us unending peace of heart,” he said.\n“This Child teaches us what is truly essential in our lives,” Pope Francis said.\nTwelve days later, on the feast of the Epiphany, Jan. 6, 2017, Pope Francis said that an inner restlessness guided the Magi on their way to meet Christ.\n“They could see what the heavens were showing them,” he said, and “they were open to something new.”\nThe Magi personify all believers, the pope said, everyone who longs for God.\n“Believers who feel this longing are led by faith to seek God, as the Magi did, in the most distant corners of history, for they know that there the Lord awaits them. They go to the peripheries, to the frontiers, to the places not yet evangelized, to encounter their Lord,” Pope Francis said.\nLike the Magi, we, too, want to worship, the pope said. King Herod was incapable of worshiping the Christ Child because “he did not want to stop worshiping himself” and “would not change his own way of looking at things.”\nThe Magi followed their longing and had the courage to set out, and so were able to worship, the pope said.}}
{{When community theatres in Canada were looking for ways to celebrate the country's 150th birthday a lot of them came up with the same answer — Anne of Green Gables: The Musical.\nSamuel French, the New York agency that manages the rights for the show, says Anne is a perennial favourite, but it was an especially big hit in 2017. There was a 42 per cent increase in shows licensed in North America, including a 70 per cent increase in shows in Canada.\nAnne suffers the most tragical thing ever in the VOS Theatre production, which ran in July. (VOS Theatre)\nIt seems to have been enough to make Anne its most popular musical this year: more popular than Chicago, more popular than The Rocky Horror Show, more popular than Grease.\nThis map shows current productions of Anne of Green Gables: The Musical that are licensed by Samuel French. (Samuel French Ltd)\nWhile the agency doesn't track the reasons companies are putting on the show, some companies have shared that Canada 150 was a factor in their choice. Promotional material for the Sault Community Theatre, the VOS theatre in Cobourg, Ont., the Mississippi Mudds of Carleton Place, Ont., and Oshawa Little Theatre all mention Canada 150 in their promotions.\nOshawa Little Theatre was part of a 70 per cent increase in Anne of Green Gables: The Musical productions in Canada this year. (Oshawa Little Theatre)\n"Anne of Green Gables is the quintessential Canadian musical," said Michael Schneider, executive producer of Oshawa Little Theatre.\n"We all relate to those characters. There's something very quaint and lovely about them. Certainly Anne's spunk and spirit defines us very well. There is a drive that is a Canadian [drive], and we see that in Anne."\nDiana Barry enjoys a drink of raspberry cordial in the VOS Theatre production. (VOS Theatre)\nSchneider said the first time he was involved in an Anne production was 1979, and he has now done four.\nThe ladies of Avonlea serve up ice cream in the Mississippi Mudds production, which ran in November and December. (Mississippi Mudds)\nAnne of Green Gables: The Musical, based on the book by L.M. Montgomery, was first produced at Confederation Centre of the Arts in Charlottetown in 1965, and this fall completed its 53rd consecutive season there.\nIt is the Guinness World Record holder for the longest running musical theatre production.}}
{{YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio (AP) — A lawyer says a Pennsylvania man’s social media threat to shoot suburban Cleveland high school students was a misguided attempt to get in touch with a girl at the school.\nDefense attorney David Betras says 22-year-old Russell Miley, of Scranton, has a history of mental illnesses and didn’t mean any harm.\nHe says Miley wasn’t taking his medication when the April 2018 threat targeting Parma High School was made in a Snapchat message.\nIt led to hundreds of students missing classes over several days.\nHe pleaded guilty this week to federal charges related to the threat and obstructing justice. His sentencing is Jan. 14.\nBetras says he’ll ask that home detention plus the months Miley already has been in jail be considered sufficient punishment.}}
{{Get What's On updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nCooking Christmas dinner can be a daunting prospect.\nJuggling sprouts, turkey, and potatoes - all after a glass of prosecco - can sometimes end in disaster.\nWe've asked Manchester's top chefs the most common mistakes that people make when cooking Christmas dinner at home, and point out simple ways to avoid them.\nAnd if you're still hungry for Christmas inspiration, watch the video above, where the acclaimed Adam Reid of The French talks us through how to make the perfect dinner.\nSo long dry turkey, be gone soggy sprouts - hello happy Christmas dinner.\nSoggy sprouts\nAdam Reid, Adam Reid at The French\n"Over cooking sprouts – there is nothing worse than soggy sprouts.\n"Sprouts are generally horrible, unless you enhance the flavour. Pre-boil the day before, and refresh in cold water (takes away some of the bitterness). On Christmas Day, cut them in half and fry with bacon lardons. Finish with a little cream and some toasted almonds – much more appealing."\nLumpy mash\nMatthew Nutter, The Allotment Vegan Restaurant\n"I can't stand it when someone makes lumpy mash, or under seasons it! Mash should be a labour of love, and really shouldn't be rushed. Throw away those old hand held mashers, and buy a Mouli (hand-operated grater) this Christmas."\nPeel your spuds, take all the eyes out and chop them to the same size. Bring to the boil with salted water and a few sprigs of sage and then gently cook until soft and tender.\nOnce cooked, don't pour the potatoes from the pan to the colander. If you do this, all the broken, over cooked bits of the potatoes will end up in the Mouli and become extra starchy glue. Use a slotted spoon and take them out to steam off first. Once naturally dry (and still piping hot) sit the Mouli over a pan, can bring to turn a few potatoes at a time.\nYou will have amazing fluffy mash by doing this, instead of the usual lumpy stuff. If you're using butter, beat it in whilst the mash it hot, and the butter is cold. If your doing dairy-free this Christmas, use unflavoured coconut oil, (less than your usual mound of butter) and beat the same with a wooden spoon. Season it up and keep it warm until guests arrive. "This can we made the night before, but if you do, don't add butter/ coconut oil. Leave it plain, and when you come to reheating, put it in a heat proof dish with the lid on and place in the over for 20 minutes or until hot. Once it's hot, then beat in the fat to ensure emulsification."\nDry Turkey\nMatt Brown, Hawksmoor\n"It’s very easy for people to say that turkey is dry - it’s not. Don’t blame the bird, I blame the cook.\nWhen cooking your turkey ignore the cooking advice that tells you how many minutes per kilo to cook the bird for. Instead, buy a probe/ meat thermometer, preheat the oven to 160 degrees and cook the turkey low and slow until its temperature reaches 60 degrees, then rest for at least one hour. Temperature will rise and juices will stay in the bird. Carve the turkey with a sharp knife, it will be worth the investment."\nBeing unprepared\nRachel Stockley, Levanter\n(Image: Bacononthebeech.co.uk)\n"Start preparations for Christmas the day before! Vegetables can be peeled, cut and kept in cold water.\nYorkshire pudding batter and Stuffing can be made and rolled if you’re a baller like me. It allows for that little lie-in on the morning.\nIf you’re in the kitchen, get someone else to set the table, make drinks and shove all the shreds of wrapping paper into bin bags.\nFinally, make sure you have your own personal bartender. It’s thirsty work all that cooking, and its Christmas day- you should be wetting the baby’s head."\nNot brining the turkey\nRichard Sharples, Hispi\n"I really like to brine the meat for 24hours before cooking, as turkey is quite a lean meat this helps to keep the moisture inside the bird and adds seasoning to the whole thing.\n"In the restaurants we use a 2% salt brine, which is as simple as boiling 2 litres of water with 40g of table salt, leaving to chill, them submerging the meat completely. Always remember that the turkey itself will continue to cook once it's out of the oven, the residual heat continues the cooking process.\n"I would recommend investing in a temperature probe, it's a bit ‘cheffy’ but if you take the probe at the thickest part of the breast and push it straight in until you feel the breast bone, if it reads at around 65c the bird is done. Take it out, cover in foil and leave to rest until needed."\nTaking on too much\nJimmy Carr, Evelyn's Cafe Bar\n"It is a massive task to cook for everyone with all the different elements. Take your time and enjoy yourself, if a couple of cousins come round early, get them on the spuds. Family gatherings are always fun and mean you don't have to do everything. You can get them to do the small tasks and still take all the credit. It is Christmas and just enjoy yourself\nPick your vegetables early on and stick to them. There is a lot going on, the turkey, the gravy, Yorkies, all the trimmings, stuffing also. Make sure you choose three or four veggies and try not change your mind. Make them easy too. For me, oven roasted carrots with thyme, garlic and olive oil. One tray, cheesy cauliflower, boil the cauliflower, whip up a cheese sauce, one tray. Braised red cabbage, slow braise in a pan with some brown sugar and apple cider for half hour or so, stick the lid on till its done."\nFlavourless gravy\nPhil Cook, Yadda Yadda at Electrik\n"Throw everything you have got at the gravy, as it will steal the show, and also cover up a multitude of sins. Get bones from your new friend the butcher, and roast them with all your veg trimmings, wine, herbs and all manner of items from your condiment shelf and simmer away. Feel free to thicken on the day with shop bought gravy granules for a last minute cheat."\nFlat Yorkshire puddings\nZach Griffiths Dunne, The Bay Horse Tavern\n"Yorkshire Puddings require equal measurements of egg flour and milk. Mix eggs and milk together and then add flour slowly mix until smooth. While making the mix, heat your Yorkshire pudding tins with oil in the oven.\nYou can use your mix straight away - chilling the mix is an old wives’ tale. Once the oil is hot and mix is made, pour mix into tins and cook at 180 degrees for 20 minutes. The trick is not to open the oven at all until they are cooked. Once cooked turn them over and cook for further minute to seal the shape."}}
{{The Hartford-metro and areas north and west will likely receive 2-5” of snow. (WFSB)\nThe whole state is under a winter weather advisory for tonight and through Christmas as a large part of Connecticut will possibly see a white Christmas but not all may finish with blanket of snow. (WFSB)\nThe whole state is under a winter weather advisory for tonight and through Christmas. A large part of Connecticut will possibly see a white Christmas but not all may finish with a blanket of snow.\nMeteorologist Mike Cameron is expecting a "mixed bag situation" developing for Christmas Day as a developing coastal storm will be giving us trouble with snow, sleet, and rain into Christmas morning.\nThe wintry mix caused roads to be a little slippery and according to Connecticut State Police, they responded to over 279 accidents with 20 resulting in injury from December 22nd to December 24th.\nTemperatures for Christmas Eve will be in the mid 30s to low 40s but will be a bit chilly with a northwesterly wind that could gust to over 20 mph.\nCameron says to expect "an icy mix for tonight, with snow, sleet, and freezing rain possible after 10 p.m. and even a better chance at midnight."\nThe storm looks to start in the southerly part of the state, but residents northwest of Hartford may experience more rain than snow.\nAs for accumulation, Cameron says it all depends on "the amount of time that the mixing to ice and rain occurs will have a huge impact on the accumulation totals."\nRecent projections see Hartford to likely receive two to five inches of snow but in areas southeast of here will likely be a slushy inch or two. Along the shoreline and in areas southeast of Colchester look to have very little if any accumulation at all.\nStay with Channel 3 for updates on traffic, weather, and news in your area.\nTo read the full Technical Discussion, click here.\nFor weather updates on smartphones and tablets, head here or text "WFSB" to 23765 to download the Channel 3 app.\nCopyright 2017 WFSB (Meredith Corporation). All rights reserved.}}
{{UNHCR Special Envoy Angelina Jolie arrives to address the International Peace Support Training Centre staff and other attendees on Tuesday (June 20) in Nairobi, Kenya.\nThe 42-year-old actress, director and humanitarian spoke during a training on the sexual violence prevention in conflicts on World Refugee Day.\n“The role of sexual violence is compounded when it is carried out by someone in uniform who has taken an oath to protect,” Angelina said. “So it is a responsibility of those who wear uniform to take the lead now by correcting from within, setting an example stepping forward with new commitments.”\nAngelina was appointed Special Envoy to the UN Refugee Agency in April 2012.}}
{{Cloudy skies mean just a few sprinkles are possible on an overcast Christmas Day, but temperatures will remain mild for the majority of the holiday.}}
{{Up to 37,000 children will be turned away from state-run nursery schools, the conservative opposition has warned while slamming the left-led government for failing to solve the problem of space shortage.\n“[Prime Minister Alexis] Tsipras’s promise of social sensibility proved to be false,” New Democracy said in a statement on Friday.\nThe lingering financial crisis means fewer parents can afford private fees. An increasing number are hoping to place their children at nursery schools run by local authorities and funded by a central government program.}}
{{SANDRINGHAM, England — A heavy cold kept Queen Elizabeth II from attending the traditional Christmas morning church service near her Sandringham estate in rural Norfolk, England. Meanwhile, in her Christmas message, the monarch praised athletes and other inspirational people in the Commonwealth.\nIt is extremely rare for Elizabeth to miss the service, which is a cornerstone of the royal family’s Christmas celebrations and brings the monarch into contact with local residents who gather outside for a glimpse of her.\n“The Queen continues to recover from a heavy cold and will stay indoors to assist with her recovery,” Buckingham Palace said. “Her Majesty will participate in the royal family Christmas celebrations during the day.”\nThose festivities usually include a gala lunch. In past years, the royal family would often go for extended walks in the countryside.\nElizabeth has been in generally good health and has maintained an active schedule in the last year despite travelling less often than in the past.\nHer husband, 95-year-old Prince Philip, has also cut back his public schedule and his charitable works. He was also suffering from a heavy cold earlier in the week, the palace said.\nPhilip did attend the Sunday morning Christmas service, waving to well-wishers on his way out of the church. As a concession to age and his cold, he drove to the church instead of walking.\nPrince Harry spent time talking to local residents after the church and stopped to pet a dog.\nThere were no signs of other family members being ill. The flu season has hit many Britons hard in the last two weeks and colds and flus are spreading. A cold can be dangerous for people in their 90s, doctors warn.\nEarlier this week, the royal couple delayed their departure from London to Sandringham because of their colds but travelled one day later than expected, using a helicopter instead of a train.\nThe royal family received some sad news Saturday, when it was revealed that the Queen’s granddaughter, Zara Tindall, had suffered a miscarriage while expecting her second child with husband Mike Tindall.\nThe Queen plans to use her prerecorded Christmas Day message to praise British Olympic and Paralympic athletes and others who inspired her.\nThe message was televised throughout Britain and much of the Commonwealth on Sunday afternoon.\nRemarks released by Buckingham Palace indicate she will say she often draws strength from meeting ordinary people doing extraordinary things.\nElizabeth and Philip will be joined in Sandringham by other senior royals. Prince William and his wife Kate, along with their two children, Prince George and Princess Charlotte, are celebrating Christmas with Kate’s parents.}}
{{The video will start in 8 Cancel\nGet Daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nWith just days until Christmas, many people across Hull will have their online food deliveries placed or supermarket trips already in the bag.\nFor some though, a last-gasp dash to the shops will be needed.\nWhether it’s Sellotape or wrapping paper you have forgotten to buy, or whether you need some last minute trimmings for the Christmas dinner, it seems that the entire population of Hull descends on the supermarkets at this time of year.\nAll of the city’s supermarkets will be closed on Christmas Day, but retailers can expect bumper sales either side of December 25.\nWith this in mind, the Mail has compiled a list of all the festive opening times for some of Hull’s biggest supermarket names.\nTesco in Hall Road, Orchard Park\nSaturday, December 23: Normal hours\nChristmas Eve: 10am to 4pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 9am to 6pm\nWednesday, December 27: 6am to 12am\nTesco St Stephen's, city centre\nSaturday, December 23: Normal hours\nChristmas Eve: 11am to 5pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 9am to 6pm\nWednesday, December 27: 6am to 12am\nAll Tesco Express stores\nSaturday, December 23: Normal hours\nChristmas Eve: Close at 10pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 8am to 10pm\nWednesday, December 27: Normal hours\nSainsbury's, Hessle\nSaturday, December 23: 6am to midnight\nChristmas Eve: 10am to 4pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 9am to 6pm\nWednesday, December 27: Normal hours\nSainsbury's, Hedon\nSaturday, December 23: Normal hours\nChristmas Eve: 10am to 4pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 9am to 5pm\nWednesday, December 27: Normal hours\nAll Sainsbury's Local stores\nSaturday, December 23: Normal hours\nChristmas Eve: 7am to 9pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 9am to 9pm\nWednesday, December 27: Normal hours\nAsda, Beverley Road and Savoy Road\nSaturday, December 23: 7am to 10pm\nChristmas Eve: 10am to 4pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 9am to 6pm\nWednesday, December 27: Normal hours\nAsda, Hessle Road and Mount Pleasant\nSaturday, December 23: Closes at midnight\nChristmas Eve: 10am to 4pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 9am to 6pm\nWednesday, December 27: Opens at 7am\nAsda, Anlaby Retail Park\nSaturday, December 23: 8am to 9pm\nChristmas Eve: 10.30am to 4.30pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 9am to 6pm\nWednesday, December 27: Normal hours\nAsda, Kingswood\nSaturday, December 23: Closes at midnight\nChristmas Eve: 10am to 4pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 9am to 6pm\nWednesday, December 27: Opens at 8am\nAsda, Bilton\nSaturday, December 23: Normal hours\nChristmas Eve: 10am to 4pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 9am to 6pm\nWednesday, December 27: 7am to 10pm\nMorrisons, Holderness Road and Anlaby\nSaturday, December 23: 6am to midnight\nChristmas Eve: 10am to 4pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: 9am to 5pm\nWednesday, December 27: Normal hours\nLidl, Hedon Road, Hessle Road, Cottingham Road and Willerby\nSaturday, December 23: 7am to 11pm\nChristmas Eve: 10am to 4pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: Closed\nWednesday, December 27: Normal hours\nAll Aldi stores\nSaturday, December 23: Normal hours\nChristmas Eve: 10am to 4pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: Closed\nWednesday, December 27: 8am to 10pm\n(Image: DANIEL LEAL-OLIVAS/AFP/Getty Images)\nWaitrose Willerby\nSaturday, December 23: 7am to 1pm\nChristmas Eve: 10am to 4pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: Closed\nWednesday, December 27: Normal hours\nMarks and Spencer, Whitefriargate\nSaturday, December 23: 7am to 8pm\nChristmas Eve: 10.30am to 4.30pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: Closed\nWednesday, December 27: Normal hours\nMarks and Spencer, Anlaby\nSaturday, December 23: 7am to 10pm\nChristmas Eve: 10am to 4pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: Closed\nWednesday, December 27: Normal hours\nMarks and Spencer, Kingswood\nSaturday, December 23: 7am to 10pm\nChristmas Eve: 10.30am to 4.30pm\nChristmas Day: Closed\nBoxing Day: Closed\nWednesday, December 27: Normal hours\nAll Iceland stores}}
{{Canada Post’s union which represents most of its employees has issued a 72-hour strike notice.\nThe union, CUPW, made the announcement on Thursday afternoon.\nThe strike will not be a full strike. Rather, employees will not work overtime. The strike will rotate between provinces/territories.\nMore information to follow.\n— MyToba News}}
{{Some Northern Kentucky schools will buy new buses using federal environmental settlement money with German-based automaker Volkswagon.\nKentucky Gov. Andy Beshear announced the $8.13 in awards to schools Tuesday in a news release with Energy and Environment Cabinet Secretary Rebecca Goodman.\nThe money will pay to replace 169 older diesel buses in 93 school districts with propane or cleaner-running diesel buses.\nFunds come from a 2016 U.S. Department of Justice settlement with Volkswagon over a device installed in 2009-2016, diesel vehicles. The device allowed the vehicles to emit up to 40 percent more nitrogen oxides than allowed under the Clean Air Act. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency lists nitrogen oxide as one of the multiple types of greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to climate change.\nNorthern Kentucky school districts receiving money are:}}
{{Foo Fighters have announced the release of their "biggest sounding album yet"\nFoo Fighters announced Tuesday a new album and a one-day festival as the alternative rock titans promised their heaviest sound yet.\nWeeks after releasing a hard-hitting single, Foo Fighters said that their ninth studio album, "Concrete and Gold," would come out on September 15.\nDave Grohl's band, which had appeared to be lying low earlier this year, said it had quietly spent six months working on the album with Greg Kurstin, the producer best known for co-writing Adele's smash hit "Hello."\nThe group made clear it was not moving toward Adele's ballad style. The band called it "our biggest sounding album ever."\nThe album "will undoubtedly fry stereos from here to Fukuoka. Start saving your speaker money now. Sorry. It's big," said a handwritten note posted on its website.\n"Concrete and Gold" has "more twists and turns than a live Senate hearing," it said.\nFoo Fighters also announced that they would headline a one-day, rock-driven festival, Cal Jam 17, on October 7 in San Bernardino, California.\nThe lineup will also include Liam Gallagher of Oasis fame, desert rockers Queens of the Stone Age and garage rockers Cage the Elephant.\nFoo Fighters, born from the ashes of Nirvana in 1994, have frequently hinted and dispelled speculation of retirement.\nThe band earlier this month released a first song from the album, "Run," a shift back to the intense, whirling guitars of Nirvana in which the 48-year-old Grohl was the drummer.\n"Run" was accompanied by a video directed by Grohl in which residents of a retirement home erupt into a raucous party when Foo Fighters come as their evening entertainment.}}
{{× Queen Elizabeth forced to miss Christmas Day church service with ‘heavy cold’\nLONDON — Queen Elizabeth did not attend church on Christmas Day, Buckingham Palace announced Sunday after confirming she is recovering from a “heavy cold”.\n“The Queen continues to recover from a heavy cold and will stay indoors to assist with her recovery.\n“Her Majesty will participate in the Royal Family Christmas celebrations during the day.”\nThe Queen’s husband Prince Philip, her son Prince Charles, and her grandson Prince Harry all went to church as expected.\nThe Queen has spent Christmas at the royal couple’s country home, Sandringham House in Norfolk, every year since 1988 and has not missed a Christmas Day service during that time.\nThe royal couple abruptly canceled plans to travel to Sandringham on Wednesday.\nThe Queen, 90, and her husband, 95, had been due to catch a morning train from London King’s Cross to King’s Lynn for their traditional Christmas holiday, but failed to turn up.\nInstead, the pair traveled the following day by helicopter.\nPrince William and the Duchess of Cambridge attended church with their children George and Charlotte in Bucklebury, Berkshire, home of the Middleton family.}}
{{POPE Francis is criticising the Trump administration’s immigration policy, telling a news reporter earlier this week he agrees with US Catholic bishops that separating children from their parents at a border is “immoral.”\nContinuing his criticism Wednesday, he tweeted: “A person’s dignity does not depend on them being a citizen, a migrant, or a refugee.\nSaving the life of someone fleeing war and poverty is an act of humanity.”\nPresident Trump’s Attorney-General, Jeff Sessions, has quoted the Bible in defending the policy, which calls for every person who crosses the border illegally to be prosecuted and detained. The result has seen more than 2,000 children detained without a guardian and no clear plan on how the families will be reunited.\nPope Francis told Reuters in a wide-ranging interview Sunday that he agrees with recent statements by US Catholic bishops who called the separation of children from their parents “contrary to our Catholic values.” He said “it’s not easy, but populism is not the solution.”\nBritish Prime Minister Theresa May also spoke out on Wednesday, saying images from the United States of migrant children kept in cages were “deeply disturbing” and that she would press President Donald Trump on the issue.\n“On what we have seen in the United States, pictures of children being held in what appear to be cages are deeply disturbing … this is wrong,” she told MPs.\nMs May said she would raise the issue with Trump when the pair meet in Britain next month.\n“When we disagree with the United States we tell them so,” she told MPs.\n“But we also have some key shared interests with the United States in the security and defence field and on other areas as well.\nCamera Icon Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May has called the images of children in cages separated from their parents “deeply disturbing”. AFP Picture: AFP\n“And it is right that we are able to sit down and discuss those with the president.”\nMr Trump told Republican politicians Tuesday he backed their efforts to craft an immigration solution that ends the politically toxic practice of separating families on the US-Mexico border.\nMs May appeared to criticise the practice, saying that when she was interior minister: “I ended the routine detention of families with children.”}}
{{Five people have been charged in an alleged human smuggling scheme that led to the deaths of five undocumented immigrants in a crash following a chase by the Border Patrol and sheriff’s deputies in Texas.\nA federal complaint filed Tuesday charges the defendants with transporting undocumented immigrants and conspiracy to transport and harbor undocumented immigrants resulting in serious bodily injury and death. If convicted they could face life in prison or death, a $250,000 fine, and five years of supervised release, according to Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE).\nThe fatal incident Sunday began when a Border Patrol agent in Carrizo Springs saw three vehicles pass him on a rural highway, US Customs and Border Protection said. The agent stopped one vehicle, another agent stopped a second, but a third did not stop for an agent.\nA Dimmitt County Sheriff’s deputy began chasing it west of Big Wells. The vehicle was traveling around 100 mph when it ran off the road, flipped several times and landed on the highway, Sheriff Marion Boyd said.\nThe criminal complaint says Jorge Luis Monsivais Jr., 20, of Eagle Pass, Texas, was driving the 2007 Suburban. He had 13 suspected undocumented immigrants, including one juvenile, in the vehicle. Four of them died at the scene. Another died on the way to the hospital, ICE said.\nThe complaint says agents captured 10 suspected undocumented immigrants from a 2008 Tahoe, along with the 17-year-old driver.\nIn addition to Monsivais, ICE said, the criminal complaint charges these people as conspirators in the smuggling venture: the driver of a 2013 Tahoe, 55-year-old Mexican citizen Marcial Gomez Santana; and occupants 45-year-old Mexican citizen Mariela Reyna; Marcial’s son, 21-year-old Rudy Gomez of Hockley, Texas; and, Marcial’s daughter, 19-year-old Johana Gomez of Houston. All five charged remain in custody.\nOf the 23 undocumented immigrants involved, 21 are Mexican nationals and two are Honduran nationals, ICE said.\nICE said six were being held on federal complaints as material witnesses. The juvenile driver is in the custody of Dimmit County authorities. An attempt by CNN to contact legal representation for the defendants was not immediately successful.}}
{{Actor joins the ranks of other celebrities speaking out against current border policies.\nAcademy Award winner Kevin Costner recently vocalized his criticisms of the Trump administration’s border policy. The Untouchables actor stated that he does not “recognize America right now.”\nCostner spoke on The View Tuesday, June 19, to promote his newest role in the Western-based program, “Yellowstone.”\nAs recounted by Fox News, he was questioned by hosts on his opinion regarding America’s controversial current immigration policy which has allegedly separated almost 2,000 immigrant children from their parents during the deportation process at the U.S.-Mexico border.\nThe border policies, which are a hot-button issue in America currently, have spurred countless outcries from citizens concerned over the potential inhumane conditions illegals may have to face when being deported.\nNews of the actions taken in accordance with the policy grew even further when photographs of immigrant children being held in cages while crying for their parents were shared online and reposted an uncountable amount of times across all platforms.\nCostner responded to the query with “You know, this is a hard thing to say, but I don’t — I’m not recognizing America right now. I don’t recognize its voice. I don’t recognize any individual statements. I feel people going with the flow, and there’s people right in the middle. And we’re in a really weird spot, and it takes a high level of compassion, empathy and intelligence to work our way out of this.”\nFurthermore, the Field of Dreams actor stated, “Separating people with no plan, when those children can’t even speak English. Can you imagine the terror? Besides just being separated? So we have to do better. We’ve been about more, we can be about more and right now we are acting really small.”\nCostner is not the first celebrity to vocally reject this administration’s policy on illegal immigration, with other notable names such as Reese Witherspoon, Oprah Winfrey, Ellen DeGeneres and Willie Nelson, who have all already publicly mentioned their disdain for the program as it stands.\nAttorney General Jeff Sessions, a notable advocate for the current immigration policies, was actually shunned recently by parishioners at his choice Methodist church, who deemed the actions he’s stood by cruel and inhumane.\nThe actor, aside from sharing political commentary on television, is busy working on his latest project, the television show Yellowstone, which is centered around a family living on a ranch that could potentially lose their home and livelihood to a Native American reservation.\nYellowstone is set to air today, June 20, on the Paramount Network.}}
{{St. Mary Schools Virtual Learning Program enrollment numbers are down this school year. But in spite of district budget cuts, it continues to serve as a viable option accommodating students with schedule conflicts.\n“It’s different from school to school, I’m sure,” said Morgan City High school counselor Kimberly Philbrook. “Here at Morgan City High, we have a list of the virtual student classes for the students to choose to take as an elective.\n“Now this year with budget cuts, we were kind of strapped a little bit. We were only offering the elective courses to students who needed the class for graduation.”\nOverall, the district program’s enrollment numbers have decreased from last year to this year, said St. Mary Technology Facilitator Sue Dupre.\n“We’re encouraging traditional students in grades 9 and 10 to take courses at their local high schools,” Dupre said. “Because generally speaking, all the people enrolled are in grades 11 and 12. They need those courses for graduation.\n“The part-time students that are enrolled in the program are enrolled because they need these classes to graduate and they’re unavailable at their school.”\nAs of Thursday, 78 students enrolled in online courses. High school students take classes per semester due to block scheduling. Junior high students take courses for the entire school year.\nNine full-time high school students are taking at least two and no more than four classes this semester. The number of high schoolers enrolled part time and taking one or two courses is 59.\nOn the junior high level, one student is taking five courses full-time in the program. Nine junior high students are taking one class online and is considered part time.\nThe total course enrollment delivered by the virtual learning program for fall 2016 is 104. The course with the largest number of enrolled students is science, with 31. Career and technical courses follow with 28 students.\nTwenty-one students are enrolled in the other course categories, which includes foreign language, fine arts survey and STAR I and II.\nThe subject with the fewest students is social studies, with 5. And only seven students are enrolled in English courses.\n“As a counselor, I make sure the kids have all the required courses that they need to graduate,” said Franklin High school counselor Bridget Madison. “And if there’s an issue, then we resort to possibly getting them to take it on virtual school.”\nApproximately 20 teachers are working with the program. The instructors are paid a stipend for the services because it’s an additional responsibility they take on after traditional working hours.\nAn online instructor can have at least one student or as many as 15 to 20 students.\nStudents can begin taking virtual learning courses in junior high school.\n“We have a few students at Patterson Junior High in band,” Dupre said. “And they never get a chance to take the computer literacy courses, like keyboarding, because their elective is band.\n“Some students at Patterson Junior High requested to take our online courses for seventh and eighth grade in keyboarding or Journey into Careers. Some are working with the gifted teacher and some are working at home.”\nThere’s a misconception about how kids get enrolled in the program, Dupre said.\nDupre only processes the application. Everything prior to that is done on the school level.\n“These kids are just part of the program,” Dupre said. “It’s not a school.”\nAs for taking courses online, “it’s required, if either one or two things are happening. We may not offer the course because they’ve transferred to us from another school or out of state where they’ve taken a previous course and they need the next course in line.\n“Or there’s a schedule conflict with a course that they need with some other courses that they’re taking. So that’s the alternate route for them to get the course.”\n“I love that flexibility of having options when their schedule has a big conflict,” Philbrook said. “So, not only is it elective courses, sometimes they take core courses when it’s a conflict.”\nThe Virtual Learning Program serves as a tool to keep students on the path of graduating on time.\n“I encourage whatever is in the best interest of the child consulting with the parent,” Madison said. “But I definitely let them know every option that’s available to them.”\nStudents seem to love the virtual option.\n“They do. They love the classes,” Philbrook said. “In fact, I was speaking with some the other day and they’re like ‘Ah, we wish we could take all of our classes like this.’ But they do, they like it a lot. It’s a different environment. It’s flexible. ...”\nFor more information about the virtual learning program, go to www.stmaryk12.net/vlp.}}
{{(Photo by Oli Scarff/Getty Images)\nToday is one of the busiest shopping days of the year as people scramble to get last minute Christmas gifts for their loved ones.\nHowever, many stores will have reduced opening hours throughout the festive period, so its important to know when your local stores will be open.\nIf you are looking to make a trip to Boots this Christmas to pick up some gifts or last-minute supplies, then here are the opening times for Boots between Christmas and New Year’s Day.\nBoots opening times will vary between stores through the festive period, but we have been able to to give you a rough idea of the times you can expect from your local Boots shop.\nMany Boots stores will have reduced opening hours on Christmas eve, with many opening late at 12 pm and then closing early at 6pm, but some local stores may stay open for their normal hours.\nAll Boots shops will be closed on Christmas Day, but will open again on Boxing Day with larger stores set to open at 9am and close at 10pm, however this could vary between stores.\nSome of Boots smaller stores may also run reduced hours of 11am – 6pm on Boxing Day.\nBoots stores will have reduced hours (Picture: Getty)\nNormal opening hours will then resume between 27th December and New Year’s Eve.\nMost Boots stores will then have reduced hours on New Year’s Day, similar to those on Boxing Day, but some larger Boots stores will be open for their normal opening schedule.\nThese are only rough guidelines of Boots opening hours and its advised that you check the Boots store locator for the most accurate opening times for your local shop.\nMORE: What are Asda’s opening hours for Christmas Eve, Christmas Day and Boxing Day 2017?\nMORE: What are Tesco’s opening hours on Christmas Eve, Christmas Day and Boxing Day 2017?}}
{{click to enlarge photo courtesy of Amy Donovan\nJonny Fritz playing with the Best Westerns at Total Fest.\nclick to enlarge Goddammitboyhowdy\nThis is the time of year I'd normally want to take a pretty large break from anything to do with live music, stages, tallboys, earplugs, etc., but this year with no Total Fest happening, I'm pretty into the idea of loading up the calendar with as much in the way of hot tunes as possible. This weekend offers what I'd honestly call a couple ofwith former Total Fest bands making the windows shake:First up, tonight at the Ol' Beck VFW 209, Goddammitboyhowdy play a one-off reunion show. This band has great chemistry, always has, and is as fun a time as you're likely to have with a Montana band on the stage. Propelled by Booster's in-the-pocket effortless playing, GDBH rips out gut wrenching, melodic punk tunes. That show happens Friday, August 26th and some other great bands like Bird's Mile Home play. More info's here. Second thing of note is Jonny Fritz and the Best Westerns on Saturday, August 27th at the Palace. Both Fritz and the Best Westerns do some version of country/western tunes, or country rock probably more accurately. What I appreciate is that both Fritz and the Best Westerns make seriously authentic country/western music, with beautiful pedal steel, great lyrics and authentic old country tones, with no real appreciable modern twists. I love that, and it makes their music stand out. For my money, the combination of Izaak Opatz and Jonny Fritz on one stage is a pretty special thing, and deserves some serious attention. Both fly pretty low on the national radar, but have talent that runs ridiculously deep. This'll be a time! More info on that show here}}
{{Getty Image\nThe Toronto Raptors have been a strong Eastern Conference team for quite a while but that regular season success has not translated into national recognition in the form of a Christmas Day assignment. In fact, the team hasn’t appeared on the NBA’s flagship regular season day since 2001 and, obviously, none of the current players were around to experience that particular endeavor.\nThis season, the Raptors are off to a tremendous start that includes a 22-8 record and the NBA’s third-best net rating (trailing only the Warriors and Rockets) but, with the schedule coming out before the downbeat of the campaign, Toronto will be off with the majority of the league on Dec. 25.\nMarc Spears of ESPN’s The Undefeated caught up with Toronto’s dynamic backcourt of Kyle Lowry and DeMar DeRozan this week and the duo made it quite clear that they would love to be featured on the regular season’s biggest stage.}}
{{This content was published on September 30, 2017 1:00 PM Sep 30, 2017 - 13:00\nA few drops of DNA would be enough to store all the world's music, says the EPFL\n(Alain Herzog/EPFL)\nTwo songs recorded at the Montreux Jazz Festival – considered items of world heritage – have been preserved using an innovative technology for encoding data in DNA strands.\nThis marks the first time that cultural artefacts granted UNESCOexternal link heritage status have been stored in such a manner.\nThe method was developed by US company Twist Bioscienceexternal link, and was unveiled on Friday at a demonstration created at the EPFL+ECALexternal link lab in Lausanne, as part of its ArtTech Forum.\nThe two songs are the iconic Tutu by Miles Davis and Smoke on the Water by Deep Purple. Recordings of these works were digitised by the Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne (EPFL) as part of the Montreux Jazz Digital Projectexternal link.\nThey are the first to be stored in the form of a DNA sequence that can be subsequently decoded and listened to without any reduction in quality, an EPFL statement saidexternal link.\nNature’s way\nThe feat was achieved using pioneering technology based on storing information by encoding it in DNA molecules – a mechanism that has been at work in nature for thousands of years.\nElectronic data storage involves encoding data in a binary format. DNA works similarly, but is composed of long strings of series of four nucleotides that make up a code. However, DNA’s storage is far more efficient: if all the information on the internet was stored as DNA, it would fit in a shoe box, the EPFL said.\nToday’s scientists can create artificial DNA strands, “record” any kind of genetic code on them and then analyse them using a sequencer to reconstruct the original data. DNA also has the advantage of being extremely stable.\nThe amount of artificial DNA strands needed to record the two songs is invisible to the naked eye. If all 50 years of the Festival’s archives – which are part if UNESCO’s Memory of the World Registerexternal link – were recorded using DNA strands, the size needed would be the equivalent of a grain of sand.\n“Absolute magic”\n“Our partnership with EPFL in digitising our archives aims not only at their positive exploration, but also at their preservation for the next generations,” said Thierry Amsallem, president of the Claude Nobs Foundationexternal link.\n“By taking part in this pioneering experiment which writes the songs into DNA strands, we can be certain that they will be saved on a medium that will never become obsolete!”\n“For us, it means looking into radically new ways of interacting with cultural heritage that can potentially cut across civilizations,” said Nicolas Henchoz, head of the EPFL+ECAL Lab.\nAmerican record producer Quincy Jonesexternal link added that he was excited about the move. “I've been a part of this festivalexternal link for decades and it truly is a magnificent representation of what happens when different cultures unite for the sake of music. Absolute magic. And I'm proud to know that the memory of this special place will never be lost.”\nswissinfo.ch/ilj\nNeuer Inhalt Horizontal Line\nsubscription form Form for signing up for free newsletter. Sign up for our free newsletter and get the top stories delivered to your inbox.}}
{{Ray Vicks gets an assist from Moneybagg Yo and YFN Lucci to shoot the official video for their collab “50 Missed Calls”. Directed by Picture Perfect. You can download his project The Frank White Story now on iTunes/Google Play.}}
{{UP-and-coming Limerick folk singer-songwriter Emma Langford has expressed “excitement” about her new debut LP ‘Quiet Giant’, which hits the shelves this winter.\nAptly titled, 27-year-old Langford, from Caherdavin, has subtly rose to prominence over the past two years thanks to multitudinous gigs, a gung-ho Twitter presence, and strong media exposure.\nThe debut album follows her June 2016 eponymous EP.\nWorking with a “brilliant band” in the Golden Egg Studios in Portlaoise, the debut album was delivered by Grammy-nominated producers Graham Murphy and Chris O’Brien.\nThe delivery of Emma’s new album is timely, as she will be touring with a number of artists for the Irish Folk Festival in Germany and Switzerland this October.\nAnd though there was a time constraint in producing the record, which took three months, the songs were previously written and the band “didn’t need any coaxing or hand-holding”.\n“Although, sometimes we all held hands anyway for the craic! We all got together and dived straight into arrangements for the songs. Having such consummate professionals and all-round legends on-board took a lot of the pressure off. It's all coming together fairly bang-on schedule.”\nShe said that the selling point of the album has been the band, comprising vocals, violin, keys, double bass, percussion and cello.\n“The band were everything this time round, from the music to the recording experience — they're some of my favourite people and have really made this album so beautiful.”\nThough “bloody thrilled” about the end product, she admits that she is “quite nervous”.\n“There's a lot of expectation about it, I mean, I know it won't disappoint, but what if, you know? What if every radio station turns it down and I never gig again after and I have to turn the album covers into beermats and sell them at the Milk Market. It's hard not to worry, but that's natural I guess.”\nShe added: “Next year is gonna be dedicated to writing some new music and learning some new tricks I think.”\nAs well as touring with the festival this autumn, Emma plans to perform a number of Irish and UK dates, after launching the album at Dolan’s on December 2.}}
{{Get Daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nA project aimed at helping out the city’s homeless population is giving the gift of shelter this Christmas.\nThe Raise the Roof Hull Homeless Project has been fundraising throughout the year to provide a room for 24 rough sleepers at the city’s Ibis hotel in Osborne Street.\nFounder of the project, Carl Simpson, said: “We’re taking the rough sleepers from town and putting them up in a hotel for the night. They will be staying for two nights, Christmas Eve and Christmas Day.\n“We’ve been able to do this thanks to people fundraising and giving up their time for free. People have been funding through us and through their own pages.”\nThe bighearted gesture meant a lot to the homeless people. Among them was Kyle Todd, 23, who has been living on the streets for a while.\nHe said: "I'm buzzing finally getting off the streets.\n"There are fakes but not all of us. I barely make anything to get by, I'm wasting.\n"I can't even put it into words. It means everything. Christmas is a really hard time."\nChristopher Bambrough: "I was ready to go over the bridge. My mate stopped me if it wasn't for him I wouldn't be here.\n"It's such a tough time of year, my daughter and mum died in early January. I'm excited to have a shower, sort myself out and put my feet up."\nCarl, 49, highlighted the importance of Hull’s homeless population having a roof over their heads, particularly as Christmas is often the hardest time for them.\nHe said: “Christmas can be a tough time of year. Suicide rates are the highest at this time of year, and it can be very lonely for the homeless population.\n“They think of family. There are no shops open, no passing traffic.\n"Everyone deserves a nice Christmas. We’re trying to make sure they’re safe and well-looked after over the Christmas period. It might motivate the public to get behind us.”\nCarl appealed back in November to help raise the £2,000 to get the homeless population in a hotel for Christmas Eve.\nHe said at the time: "Last year we ran a soup kitchen on Christmas Eve and it was heartbreaking to see so many people attend.\n"It was heartbreaking to know that they were waking up Christmas Day morning on their own.\n"If we can save one life this Christmas and make people more comfortable it would mean the world to us."}}
{{1:41 Westside 21, Howard 0: Postgame thoughts Pause\n1:26 Lee County 20, Jones County 13: Postgame thoughts\n3:56 Houston County's Jake Fromm and Mary Persons' Brian Nelson had a full night\n2:43 Mary Persons vs. Houston County High School Football\n2:46 Kickoff can't come soon enough for buddies/rivals Jake Fromm and Malik Herring\n2:14 The showdown up front with Houston County and Mary Persons may be epic\n1:08 Dieuseul Stcyr takes over leadership role on Westside defense\n1:59 Damion Bagley hopes to spark Perry turnaround at quarterback\n1:25 Northside's Kevin Kinsler and Tobias Oliver ready to rebound from 2015\n3:44 Middle Georgia has plenty of quality quarterbacks for 2016}}
{{Two summers ago I was volunteering in the migrant and refugee camp in Calais when I met an Eritrean boy called Alex Tekle. He was 16, skinny, with a bushy head of afro hair, a bright smile and a look on his face of total exhaustion.\nI was with a charity specialising in legal casework and so I asked whether he wanted help to apply to be brought to the UK through a legal route. He said: “Why should I bother? People always say they will help me, but no one helps me.”\nHe was clearly a boy who was used to being let down. He was all out of trust and who could blame him? He was living alone in a tent, in the cold and mud, in a foreign country.\nAlex and I stayed in touch. After people were evicted from the Calais camp, he was sent to live in a town in the east of France where he was interviewed by the Home Office about his eligibility for transfer to the UK under the Dubs amendment, which sought to provide refuge for unaccompanied children arriving in the UK. He was refused, and so he returned to the north to try to cross.\nWe would talk on the phone most days. He’d send me voice messages, tell me what was happening and how he was feeling. I’d top up his phone so that he could call his mother. He was so eminently likeable.\nFacebook Twitter Pinterest ‘There were brief moments of happiness and normality too.’ Photograph: Benny Hunter\nI was worried, though. It was winter and he was a child sleeping outside in a wood and climbing on to trucks at night – anything could have happened. When he finally arrived in the UK, I felt relief. I thought that at least he might be safe here.\nBut the dream was not the dream. Nothing went right for him. He wasn’t offered the support that he needed and after being assaulted at his accommodation, he became homeless, sleeping on a sofa at a friend’s house in south London. Dejected, Alex’s self-esteem slowly fell to pieces and he turned to drink to alleviate his stress.\nI became one of the few people Alex trusted, I think because I didn’t judge him or his choices. I understood the reasons for his actions – the underlying trauma from his journey and the separation from his family. He confided in me when he felt depressed or lonely and I’d send him pictures of my dogs and try to take his mind off things with funny stories.\nThe Refugee Council helped Alex and several months after he first arrived, he was taken into care in Croydon and given a social worker. But I think that at some point he lost hope. Without leave to remain and not in school or college, Alex had no stable ground from which to grow. There was a lot happening back home and he lost contact with his mum. His asylum claim and the threat of another rejection by the Home Office hung over him. The stress got worse and so did his depression and his drinking. Upset phone calls at 4am became a regular occurrence. There was a lot of anger and frustration too.\nHow to care for child refugees: lessons from Nordic countries Read more\nI remember one evening he called me in floods of tears, drunk and almost incoherent. He told me that he hated himself, that his life was “fucked up”, that he didn’t know what to do to fix it. He said that he didn’t want to be “Africa boy” – that he didn’t want to be a refugee – any longer. I tried to calm him down and to separate out his problems into manageable parts.\nIt was stressful to see him self-destruct from a distance. Slowly, there were some small positive improvements to his situation: I registered him for college, got him counselling sessions and he started to attend alcohol support meetings to reduce his intake. But by this point, he had been living in the UK for nine months and he was alcohol dependent, adrift, without permanence and without a happy future that he could imagine.\nThere were many desperate and difficult times then, in those last few months, that are painful to think back on and that I must keep private. But there were brief moments of happiness and normality too. One day, he and a girlfriend came around for pasta and we all watched YouTube videos together. I can picture him sitting in my kitchen happily playing with a light-up bouncy ball. Another time he surprised me with a watch that he’d bought me as a thank you gift. I protested but he insisted. It was important to him.\nThe last time I saw Alex, he had been hospitalised with hypoglycaemia – his blood sugar level had crashed after days of heavy drinking and because he wouldn’t eat. He was sober and lying in a hospital bed watching auditions for The Voice on his phone. I fussed over him a little and made sure he ate a sandwich and just stayed with him while the doctors did their tests. If I’d known it would be my last time with him then I would have stayed longer.\nFacebook Twitter Pinterest ‘It’s six months since he passed and the pain of losing him is still raw.’ Photograph: Benny Hunter\nA few weeks later, Alex was found dead. It’s feared he took his own life while under the influence of alcohol. He had just turned 18. I tried to distract myself with responsibility for the practicalities that come with a death. I became the person that everybody phoned – his friends, his family, his distant relatives. I had these moments of intense connection with strangers phoning from the other side of the planet. We shared stories about him and we cried together.\nWe can’t break a promise to take in child refugees | Barbara Ellen Read more\nI helped to raise the money needed for his repatriation from 100 small donations and in late December, I went to Heathrow airport, alone, to say my goodbye. I watched as the plane carrying his body took off and flew him away. He arrived home on Christmas Day.\nIt’s six months since he passed and the pain of losing him is still raw. I think about him daily, about who he was and who he might have become, given the chance. I often wonder if I could have done more.\nAlex was a bright light in my life. He was kind and he showed me love. I would thank him for that if I could.\nIn the UK, we are failing children who arrive here without their parents, seeking sanctuary. Their mental health needs are not being met, they are expected to navigate a complex and hostile asylum process while processing the loss and the trauma that many of them have experienced. Too often they are treated as difficult or unwanted – as a burden on society.\nI believe that Alex’s life mattered. He wasn’t just a victim, he fought hard against his own demons and he believed in himself. There will always be young people like Alex, fleeing terrible circumstances and seeking a better future for themselves. The crisis is not that people move across borders, the crisis is in our collective response to that fact. We cannot turn away – we must do more, for Alex and for all the others\n• In the UK, Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123 or email jo@samaritans.org. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline is 1-800-273-8255. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is 13 11 14. Other international suicide helplines can be found at www.befrienders.org.\n• Benny Hunter is a writer and campaigner for migrant and refugee rights}}
{{(CNN) Congressional leaders in both the Senate and the House have spent days trying to find a bill that would end family separations at the border, but as of Wednesday morning, it's not clear if any option has the votes to pass.\nSenate Republicans are attempting to coalesce around legislation to address in a narrow, targeted way the "zero tolerance" policy that's led to family separation. Senate Democrats are opposed to the effort entirely because it's something President Donald Trump can do on his own.\nHouse Republicans are trying desperately to wrangle the votes on a broader bill, which would overhaul the immigration system that includes a path to address the family separations. House GOP leaders still don't have the votes -- and even if they get them, the bill has no pathway to passage in the Senate.\nThis all as the President makes clear he won't reverse course -- and his Capitol Hill meeting Tuesday failed to move the ball forward on a compromise bill.\nBottom line: For all of the legislative churn in both chambers, there's no pathway to a solution of any kind for the family separation issue at the moment. And none hanging out there in the wings. Given the issue has become a flashpoint for outrage across both Capitol Hill and the country, that's a problem.\nDid the President give the efforts any boost on the Hill Tuesday night?\nNot really, according to House GOP members and staff. He barely touched on the family separation issue during his 45-minute remarks, and while he said he was behind Republicans "100%," he "left a lot hanging out there" in terms of where he actually was on the details House GOP compromise bill.\n"We've been burned too many times by him to just go all in because he showed up," one House GOP member who is still on the fence told CNN on Tuesday night.\nIn general, the member said of the President: "He was good -- said he was behind us, that he loved us, but it wasn't a game-changer by any means."\nAbout last night\nHouse GOP leaders had one goal -- to have the President forcefully back the second of two immigration overhauls slated for votes on Thursday, which was the result of negotiations between moderates, conservatives and leadership.\nHouse Speaker Paul Ryan teed Trump up in a deliberate manner, walking through the bill and noting repeatedly that it tracked with Trump's priorities. Then Trump took the floor and talked -- about trade (He told Republicans to relax -- he knew what he was doing, sources inside the room said).\nHe also talked regulatory reform, his North Korea meeting and told the gathered lawmakers they were a "hot group" because of how well things were going. He attacked a member of the conference for losing his primary -- South Carolina Rep. Mark Sanford.\nWhen he got to immigration, the President said he was supportive of the House GOP efforts, but left some members unclear what he actually supported (the White House put out a statement after the meeting saying he supported the compromise bill).\nIn other words: It was a vintage Trump-on-Capitol-Hill performance -- freewheeling, hitting various pieces of the greatest hits you often hear in his public remarks, not very focused on the issue at hand and allowing everyone to hear what they wanted. What it wasn't? Clear-eyed, full-throated support and effort to lay out the strategy on the way forward on immigration.\nWhat the President said about family separations\nTrump said he knew they looked bad -- and that his daughter, Ivanka, told him something needed to be done about them. That was pretty much it, according to multiple people in the room.\n"The message was: you guys have to fix it," one GOP lawmaker said. "Not even a hint of a sign he'd reverse the administration's current course."\nThe prospects for the House "compromise" bill\nGOP leaders have another 24 hours to get the votes, but by several accounts, the first effort to whip the bill on Tuesday night made clear there is a lot of work to do.\n"Not there, not sure we'll get there. We'll see," one member of the whip team told me.\nAgain, members heard what they wanted, and Trump saying he was behind, well, something "100%" is helpful to some degree. But the bill already had a tall hill to climb. It remains clear the harder-line proposal won't have the votes. Whether the compromise proposal gets across the finish line is still very much an open question.\nWhat the House bill does on family separation\nThe House leadership compromise bill would essentially overturn a policy that caps how many days (understood to be 20) that children can stay in the custody of the Department of Homeland Security, and would mandate that family units would stay together during criminal proceedings (which is currently the driving force behind the separations given the administration's "zero tolerance" policy). The bill also would allow Homeland Security to tap into a $7 billion pot of money for new or expanded residential centers to house the families in custody.\nThe House bill's future if it gets the votes is dim to non-existent. Any immigration proposal would need 60 votes in the Senate. Democrats have made clear the compromise proposal will fall well short of that, even if House leaders manage to scrounge together the votes for it.\nSenate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell made clear Tuesday all 51 Senate Republicans are unified behind the need to do something to stop the policy. What they coalesce behind is going to be narrow and targeted -- likely something along the lines of overturning the consent decree that restricts how long migrant children can be held in DHS custody, according to senators. Republicans do want to try and hold a vote on something as soon as this week.\nBut Senate Democrats aren't budging; they will not engage, negotiate or put up a bill to try and address the family separation crisis, leaders announced Tuesday (though all 49 senators who caucus with the party do support a proposal).\nThe reason? The President can fix it himself, and any legislative effort will get bogged down and fail. Or, as Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said in a statement after Trump left the House GOP meeting: "Anyone who believes this Republican Congress is capable of addressing this issue is kidding themselves. The President can end this crisis with the flick of his pen and needs to do so now."}}
{{Buy Photo Some parts of Wisconsin have already gotten a taste of winter. For others, the first significant blast is upon us. (Photo: Mike De Sisti/Milwaukee Journal Sentinel)Buy Photo\nThose folks hoping for a white Christmas may be in luck. The National Weather Service is predicting light snow in the Milwaukee area on Christmas Eve.\nThe area may see up to 2 inches of accumulation during some late morning and early afternoon snow showers.\nThen, it's going to get pretty darn cold. The high on Christmas will be around 18 degrees and will drop to a low of 3 degrees below zero overnight.\nRead or Share this story: https://jsonl.in/2BsNj8k}}
{{Washington (CNN) Attorney General Jeff Sessions asserted in an op-ed published late Tuesday that migrant children who are held by the Department of Health and Human Services, including those who are separated from their parents, are "well cared for."\nHis op-ed comes amid loud and growing criticism of the Trump administration's policy of prosecuting those who cross the US border illegally, which results in the separation of families.\n"In fact, they get better care than a lot of American kids do. They are provided plenty of food, education in their language, health and dental care, and transported to their destination city — all at taxpayer expense," Sessions wrote in the USA Today op-ed\n"Separations are temporary and rare," the attorney general wrote, adding that "the vast majority of children in custody came to this country by themselves."\nSince the Trump administration instituted its "zero-tolerance" policy on immigration this spring, under which anyone caught entering the US illegally is referred for criminal prosecution, more than 2,000 children have been separated from their families. The policy and the resulting separations have been widely criticized by lawmakers, advocacy groups and health experts.\nRead More}}
{{Electro/industrial duo SKYND makes an auspicious debut with the track “Elisa Lam,” along with its eerie music video created and directed by TallyHo!. With a visual aesthetic that mirrors the haunting style of The Ring and Dark Water and based on a real-life mystery, “Elisa Lam” is the first of a planned tryptic of videos focusing on unsolved or inexplicable cases and serial killers. Of the song and the band’s music, vocalist SKYND explains that she wants “to get as close as possible to the evil that humans are capable of,” referring to her fascination with “people who have reached the boundary of their humanity.” Simply named “F,” the duo’s producer adds, “SKYND is the perpetrator and we as listeners are cornered victims,” with the ghastly vocal effects achieving a de-familiarized tone that he explains “You can tell this is a human being, but it sounds grotesquely inhuman.” The music video made its premiere on Cryptic Rock on May 18.\nIn the true case, which took place in 2013, Canadian student Elisa Lam’s body was discovered floating in a water tank atop a Downtown Los Angeles hotel after having been reported missing three weeks prior. Recovered security footage from the day of her disappearance revealed strange and erratic behavior; the video went viral on the internet and has led many to suspect paranormal activity, though other theories such as bipolar disorder, drug or alcohol abuse, and Lam being the victim of a stalker have also persisted. Though the investigation had determined how Lam died, the circumstances leading to her death remain a mystery.\nSKYND\nWebsite, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube\nIlker Yücel (Ilker81x)}}
{{Image copyright Getty Images\nThere's a big argument going on in America about the way some migrant children are being split up from their families.\nIt's part of a crackdown by Donald Trump's government on people who are trying to get into America from Mexico illegally.\nOver a recent six-week period, nearly 2,000 children have been separated from their families over when their parents are held by border guards.\nIn many cases, the families have been reunited but there are reports of people being kept apart for weeks and even months.\nMedia playback is unsupported on your device Why is the US separating migrant children from their families?\nWhy is this happening?\nDonald Trump has promised to do more to stop illegal migrants crossing into the US. Lots of people who voted for him really want that to happen.\nImage copyright SAUL LOEB Image caption Donald Trump says he won't support a suggested plan to keep families together\nWhat's happening now is a result of what happens when adults are caught trying to cross illegally.\nIf these adults have brought children with them, when they are arrested, those kids have to be taken into the care of the authorities.\nThey are transferred to government shelters or foster care while their situation is sorted out, but some shelters and foster homes say they are running out of space.\nImage copyright US Government Image caption A mural on the wall of a child shelter\nMany people have been shocked after the government also announced that it has selected a site in Texas to house the migrant children in tents.\nWhat have people been saying about it?\nThe United Nations has called on the US to immediately halt the separations.\nThe US Attorney General - who is the American government's top lawyer - says that bringing children with them shouldn't stop illegal migrants being punished.\nIn a very rare statement, the First Lady Melania Trump has also commented on this.\nShe said she "hates to see children separated from their families and hopes both sides .... can finally come together. We need to be a country that follows all laws, but also a country that governs with heart."\nImage copyright Reuters/Getty Images Image caption Laura Bush, left, and Melania Trump have spoken about the issue\nFormer First Lady Barbara Bush also criticised what's going on in a newspaper article.\nShe wrote "This zero-tolerance policy is cruel... And it breaks my heart. Our government should not be in the business of warehousing children in converted box stores or making plans to place them in tent cities in the desert."\nIn the UK, Prime Minister Theresa May said that the way children are being kept was "deeply disturbing" and that their treatment was wrong.\nWhat will happen next?\nThe truth is we don't know what will happen next\nImage copyright US Government Image caption Children at a migrant shelter\nMany politicians in Donald Trump's party support his government's actions but other politicians both in his party and in other parties, are preparing a new law which would end the separation of children and parents at the border.\nUnder the new plan, families would be held together.\nAt the moment Donald Trump says he won't support those plans, although on social media he has called for all politicians to work together to find a solution.}}
{{Follow CBSMIAMI.COM: Facebook | Twitter\nMIAMI (CBSMiami/CNN) – Canada is only the second country in the world — and the first G7 nation — to implement legislation to permit a nationwide marijuana market.\nCanada’s Senate passed a “historic” bill on Tuesday with a vote of 52-29 legalizing recreational marijuana.\nIn the U.S., nine states and the District of Columbia now allow for recreational marijuana use, and 30 allow for medical use.\nBill C-45, otherwise known as the Cannabis Act, stems from a campaign pledge of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to keep marijuana away from underage users and reduce related crime.\nThe act to legalize the recreational use of weed was first introduced on April 13, 2017, and was later passed at the House of Commons in November. The Senate passage of the bill was the final hurdle in the process.\nUruguay was the first country to legalize marijuana’s production, sale and consumption in December 2013.\nAlthough the Canadian government had initially stated its intent to implement by July 2018, provinces and territories, who will be responsible for drafting their own rules for marijuana sales, have advised that they would need eight to 12 weeks after the Senate approval to transition to the new framework.\nThe government is expected to choose a date in early or mid-September.\nOn Twitter, Trudeau praised the bill and focused on Canada’s youth.\n“It’s been too easy for our kids to get marijuana – and for criminals to reap the profits. Today, we change that. Our plan to legalize & regulate marijuana just passed the Senate,” he tweeted.\nThe justice minister, Jody Wilson-Raybould, also applauded the vote.\n“This is an historic milestone for progressive policy in Canada,” she tweeted. “This legislation will help protect our youth from the risks of cannabis while keeping profits out of the hands of criminals and organized crime.”\nWhat’s legal and what’s not\nOnce the bill is formally approved, adults will be able to carry and share up to 30 grams of legal marijuana in public. They also will be allowed to cultivate up to four plants in their households and prepare products such as edibles for personal use.\nHowever, stringent rules will still govern the purchase and use of marijuana.\nConsumers are expected to purchase marijuana from retailers regulated by provinces, territories or — when neither of those options are available — federally licensed producers. Marijuana will also not be sold in the same location as alcohol or tobacco.\nThe Canadian government has also implemented changes to their impaired driving laws, to address repercussions for driving under the influence of cannabis.\nThe bill set a floor on the minimum age of the consumer at 18 years, and makes the production, distribution, or sale of cannabis products an offense for minors.\nWhile provinces can increase the minimum age, the intent is to continue to discourage Canadian youth from pot use, by establishing many of the same restrictions that exist for cigarettes and other tobacco products.\nMarket boom\nC-45 is also expected to spark a billion-dollar industry, given total spending on marijuana could surge as high as 58%, especially as users are expected to be willing to pay a premium for legal access to the drug.\nIn the United States, BDS Analytics estimated that the pot industry took in nearly $9 billion in sales in 2017. The revenue from the sales is equivalent to the entire snack bar industry.\nAs a result, the attempts to legalize cannibas for recreational use have caused Canadian marijuana companies like Canopy Growth Corp., Aphria Inc., and Aurora Cannabis Inc. to become the center of investor frenzy.\nAs provinces decide local rules of implementation, marijuana availability will vary across the country. In Alberta, recreational weed will be widely available at more than 200 private retailers across the province. On the opposite end of the spectrum, marijuana availability will only be provided in 40 state-run shops in Ontario. In Newfoundland and Labrador, it will be available in Loblaws grocery stores.\n(© Copyright 2018 CBS Broadcasting Inc. Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company, contributed to this report).}}
{{One hundred migrant kids who were separated from their parents at the border are now being housed in New York, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Wednesday — upping his previous figure of 70.\n“This is all run by the federal government and they’re moving the children around the country like chess pieces on a chess board. They had no plan on what to do with that,” the governor said on Fox 5 Wednesday morning.\nThe kids were shipped to spare beds in the Empire State after being ripped from their moms and dads under the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policy to prosecute all adults who cross the border illegally.\nCuomo announced Wednesday that he plans on suing the federal government over the separations — saying at the time that at least 70 of the kids were being held in facilities in the Bronx, Long Island and Westchester.\n“The law says a parent and a child have legal rights, even if they are not citizens they have legal rights. They have a right to due process and the courts have held again and again and again the fundamental concept of parental control, care and custody of their child is paramount,” he said.\n“And people at the border have that due process right and it’s being violated, so put all the political junk aside, you are taking children from their parents, it’s traumatizing.”\nCuomo said he’s been trying to get the youngsters mental health services, but the feds told him he has to apply for special permission and it’s going to take two weeks.\n“Some are in kennels where you wouldn’t put your poodle,” he said when asked if the charities caring for the kids already offer counseling.\n“And some are in social services facilities that do have services. But even if they do, you have a 6-year-old, you have a 7-year-old, they don’t speak the language. They’re with their mother and father and then they’re taken away and put in a van and driven away. I mean, this could be a psychological trauma for a lifetime.”}}
{{× Student stabbed during high school summer session\nRAMONA, Calif. – A high school student was hospitalized after being stabbed by a schoolmate, authorities said.\nThe knife attack took place in front of Ramona High School at around 11:30 a.m., a sheriff’s spokesperson said. The students were at the school for summer session.\nThe extent of the victim’s injuries were not known, but the student is expected to recover, the spokesperson said.\nAuthorities did not say what prompted the attack and did not provide a description of the suspect.\nThis developing story will be updated as more information becomes available.}}
{{BURLINGTON, Vt. (AP) - U.S. prosecutors say a Montreal man smuggled about 100 handguns into Canada, including some that an accomplice had hidden in a library that straddles the border between Vermont and Quebec.\nProsecutors say 40-year-old Alexis Vlachos has been brought to the U.S. from Canada to face gun-smuggling charges.\nThey say between July 2010 and April 2011, Vlachos worked with others to getting handguns that had been purchased in Florida into Canada.\nAuthorities say that in March 2011 Vlachos retrieved handguns that had been left for him in the Haskell Library, which is located in Derby Line, Vermont, and Stanstead, Quebec. The entrance to the library is in Vermont and Canadians can visit the library without going through a port of entry.\nVlachos has pleaded not guilty and is being held pending trial. His attorney did not return a call seeking comment.}}
{{(CNN) — Two series centered around Latino characters are challenging other shows to take a stand against the immigration policy that has resulted in children being separated from their parents.\nThe showrunners of “One Day at a Time” and “Vida” are encouraging donations to RAICES Texas, which raises funds to post bail for parents arrested at the border.\nOn Tuesday, the Instagram account for the writers of the Starz series “Vida” posted a photo showing them holding signs that said “Keep families together” and “End family separation.”\n“The #vidawriters Room challenges @gloriakellett and the @odaatnetflix Writers Room to take the #OneVidaAtATime Challenge to #keepfamiliestogether & #endfamilyseparation by donating to @raicestexas to directly support legal services for detained separated families, including providing bonds to get parents released from detention so they can re-unite with their children,” the caption read. “Will you do it?”\nSoon after, Netflix’s “One Day at a Time” co-showrunner Gloria Calderón Kellett posted a photo of their writer’s room also holding signs and challenging The CW’s “Jane the Virgin” and ABC’s “Grand Hotel” to participate.\nShe also tweeted to fans, saying “One Day at a Time & Vida are teaming up to end family separation at the border. Donate here to directly support legal services for detained separated parents and funding for their release.”\nIt’s part of a movement in Hollywood in which celebrities and others are increasingly advocating against the zero-tolerance immigration policy.\nThe children separated from their parents have some famous advocates.\nOprah Winfrey recently tweeted “Babies torn from their parents. Can’t stand it!”\nTalk show host Ellen DeGeneres also tweeted and shared a link about how people could help.\n“I don’t care what your politics are, we can’t be a country that separates children from their parents,” she wrote. “Do something about this, here.”\nThe-CNN-Wire™ & © 2018 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.}}
{{Saskatoon may still be getting a white Christmas as the forecast is calling for light snow on Saturday and a 60 per cent chance of flurries on Sunday.\nTemperature-wise, Saskatoon is expected to hit a high of only -16 C on Saturday, however, a 20 kilometre per hour wind may leave it feeling closer to -29 C.\nBe prepared to brush off your car Christmas morning though, as two to four centimetres of snow are expected to fall Saturday night.\nOn Sunday, temperatures should stay steady around -15 C.\nSaskatoon hit a high of -4.3 C on Friday, much warmer than the record low of -41.1 C set in 1983.}}
{{[TEHRAN] Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on Wednesday slammed the United States for the "crime" of separating migrant children from their families, joining widespread criticism of the policy.\nUS President Donald Trump's administration has sparked outcry over its hardline stance that has seen more than 2,000 children separated from their parents or guardians.\n"The matter of separating thousands of children from their mothers is a serious issue. One cannot watch with a sound state of mind these children crying on TV," he told lawmakers in a speech published online.\n"How can they commit such a crime of separating children from their mothers for the excuse of implementing some policy? This shows how evil they really are."\nsentifi.com Market voices on:\nCriticism of the Trump administration over the issue has also come from international rights groups, Christian evangelicals, former US first ladies and the president's own Republican Party.\nIran has been a fierce foe of the US for decades, labelling it the "Great Satan".\nThe decision by Mr Trump in May to ditch a landmark nuclear accord between Iran and world powers has heightened tensions between the two countries.\nAFP}}
{{Middle, high school students collect plankton, water at New College program\nFlorida's last one-room school closes in Duette\n0:57}}
{{It's Christmas time, 2016 is coming to an end, and a new year and new US president are nigh.\nHere's a roundup of visual comments from cartoonists around the globe on where we find ourselves this holiday season.}}
{{Pope Francis has added his voice to those criticizing the Trump administration's "zero tolerance" policy that has resulted in the separation of families at the Mexican border.\nIn a wide-ranging interview with Reuters at his Vatican residence published on Wednesday, World Refugee Day, Francis said he supported the statements made by US Catholic bishops who called the separation of children from their parents "immoral" and "contrary to our Catholic values."\n"I am on the side of the bishops' conference," Francis told Reuters, referring to those statements. "It's not easy, but populism is not the solution," he added.\nCNN reported in May that the Trump administration had decided to refer anyone found crossing into the US illegally for federal prosecution, meaning that adults coming across the border with children are separated from them as the parents await their criminal proceedings.\nAs harrowing images and audio of children emerged from the border this week, Trump has come under increasing pressure to drop his "zero tolerance" policy. But Trump has defended his administration's actions and falsely blamed the Democrats for the continuing separations.\nIn the interview, Francis also directly criticized Trump's decisions to pull out of a climate change accord and to implement new restrictions on American travel and trade with Cuba last year.\nHe said the US withdrawal from the Paris climate change agreement caused him "a bit of pain because the future of humanity is at stake," adding that he hoped Trump would rethink his position.\n'You cannot reject people who arrive'\nIn the rare interview, Francis, who has previously come under fire from more conservative cardinals for his teachings, defended his more liberal, outspoken approach to moral and social issues.\nHe insisted that the future of the Catholic Church was "on the street" and said he wanted to appoint more women to lead Vatican departments because they were better at resolving conflicts.\nBut it was the subject of immigration that dominated the discussion, with the pontiff also taking aim at the response of some European governments to migrants and refugees arriving on the continent.\nSeeming to reference Italy's refusal to allow a rescue ship with 630 migrants to dock in an Italian port last week, he insisted that people arriving on Europe's shores must not be turned away.\n"I believe that you cannot reject people who arrive. You have to receive them, help them, look after them, accompany them and then see where to put them, but throughout all of Europe," Francis said.\n"Some governments are working on it, and people have to be settled in the best possible way, but creating psychosis is not the cure," he added. "Populism does not resolve things. What resolves things is acceptance, study, prudence."}}
{{Frank Ocean album worth the wait as it hits number one\nFrank Ocean's long-awaited release Blonde has scored him a first UK number one - while David Brent also has a spot in the top five.\nThe R'n'B singer's second album marked the follow-up to his 2012 debut Channel Orange, which scored two Grammy Awards and achieved critical acclaim.\nIt has reached the top of the album charts despite being made available exclusively on the Apple streaming service.\nFrank Ocean's long-awaited new studio album is at number one\nThe 17-track record, which arrived on Apple Music on Saturday, debuts at number one with 32,000 combined sales (including 26,000 downloads), almost twice as many as his closest rival Dolly Parton, who lands the second spot with her 43rd studio album Pure And Simple.\nDavid Brent's Life On The Road - the soundtrack for the new Ricky Gervais film - is at number three.\nThe album is recorded entirely by Gervais' alter ego and his band Foregone Conclusion and features 15 tracks, including the previously released Equality Street and latest single Lady Gypsy.\nDrake album Views and Bob Marley retrospective Legend round off the top five.\nIn the Official Singles Chart, Major Lazer, Justin Bieber and MO hang on to Number One for a fifth week with Cold Water.\nBieber also lands a place in the second spot, as he features in DJ Snake's Let Me Love You.}}
{{1:06 Friends, family honor memory of Braden Edgar at memorial Pause\n3:18 Pete Carroll on Seahawks' win over Dallas in 3rd preseason game\n2:28 Cascade Christian's speed, athletes have it planning for postseason\n1:39 South Sound QB competition -- Sumner\n1:58 Human remains found at Gig Harbor construction site\n2:30 Fire-ravaged Puyallup school buses a grim sight\n0:39 Allenmore offices evacuated because of odor\n4:12 WATCH: Franklin Pierce QB Willie Patterson is small in stature, gargantuan in game\n1:25 WATCH: South Sound QB competition – Franklin Pierce\n1:24 Bethel teachers rally for contract}}
{{Cheating at Christmas time is something that a whopping 5.8 million Britons have admitted to doing. A recent study has revealed that one in 10 have strayed away over Christmas. More men have cheated around this time, at 14 per cent, while 8 per cent of women have cheated during the festive period. Thirty-eight per cent of Britons have kissed someone at a Christmas party and a huge 71 per cent of those who have cheated did not tell their partner. The findings were found by Insurance2go, who polled the nation about their love lives at Christmas time, and with these shocking stats in mind, some might be feeling anxious about their own partner’s behaviour. Adulterous behaviour is reportedly hitting a high as the cold weather sets in.\nGETTY Cheating: Signs your wife or husband are having an affair at Christmas\nCheating wife or husband - signs they are having an affair at Christmas\nCheating dating websites are inundated with people looking for love outside of their marriage. IllicitEncounters.com, the UK’s leading dating website for married people, has seen a 45 per cent week-on-week increase in the number of people signing up to the site as a result of the snow. The surge in subscriptions were most evident in parts of the country where the snow has hit hardest, with users in the East Midlands, Wales and the South West seeing as much as a 30 per cent week-on-week increase in the number of people signing up to the site. IllicitEncounters.com’s spokesperson, Christian Grant, explains: "After you've got a couple of hours of enjoyment playing around in the snow, the reality of being housebound with your partner kicks in; after just a few days, couples experience cabin fever. “When a marriage is fractured, time away from your partner prevents the cracks from turning into chasms. But when you're trapped indoors, instead of kicking your feet up and nestling in front of a cosy fireplace, many instead descend into arguments, and it doesn't take very long for those arguments to spiral.”\nIs your wife having an affair? Fri, September 15, 2017 Body language expert Judi James reveals the clues a woman gives when she is cheating. Play slideshow Getty Images 1 of 12 Is your wife having an affair?\nGETTY Cheating: One in 10 have strayed away over Christmas\nIf you are worried about your partner sleeping with someone else, these signs could reveal unfaithful behaviour. Signs your partner is cheating on you Women Judi James told Express.co.uk revealed that women tend to show four body language signs they they cheat. These include sensual signals becoming more common. She said: “This can look a bit like preening with increased eye-checks in the mirror and a softened, smiling expression when she moves around generally. "This display will then disappear rather than increase as usual when her regular partner makes a move to respond though, leading to signals like a facial clamp with the lips narrowed and self-diminishing gestures that can involve covering the breasts or crossing the legs.” Anxiety rituals such as shallow breathing and foot-tapping or playing with jewellery can be a sign, as can blushing or neck-blotching. A woman getting in touch with a former flame, which can be more common at Christmas, is also a sign of cheating. Over a third of women who met up with a former-lover admitted that it led to an affair, at 32 per cent.\nGETTY Cheating: More men have cheated around this time, at 14 per cent}}
{{WASHINGTON (dpa-AFX) - Amid an uproar over a policy that has led to children being separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border, President Donald Trump has expressed support for two separate immigration bills expected to be voted on by the House this week.\nTrump indicated during a closed-door meeting with House Republicans on Tuesday that he would support both a conservative proposal drafted by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, R-Virg., and a compromise bill negotiated by centrist and conservative Republicans.\nComments from some Republican lawmakers following the meeting suggested lingering uncertainty about where Trump stands, although White House Deputy Press Secretary Raj Shah sought to clarify the president's position.\n'In his remarks, he endorsed both House immigration bills that build the wall, close legal loopholes, cancel the visa lottery, curb chain migration, and solve the border crisis and family separation issue by allowing for family detention and removal,' Shah said.\nThe compromise bill purportedly includes $25 billion in funding to build a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border, a key demand from Trump.\nThe bill would also provide a pathway to citizenship for young illegal immigrants brought to the country as children, end the diversity visa 'lottery' system, and limit family migration.\nTrump's comments at the meeting represent a reversal from just last Friday, when the president declared he would not sign the compromise bill.\n'I'm looking at both of them,' Trump said of the two immigration bills in an interview on 'Fox & Friends' on Friday. 'I certainly wouldn't sign the more moderate one.'\nThe mixed messages from Trump have raised concerns among some GOP lawmakers who are seeking 'political cover' from the president amid worries about how a vote for the compromise bill would be seen at home.\n'We've been burned too many times by him to just go all in because he showed up,' one Republican House member told CNN on Tuesday night.\nIn general, the member said of Trump, 'He was good -- said he was behind us, that he loved us, but it wasn't a game-changer by any means.'\nComments from other House Republicans have also led to uncertainty about whether either bill will have enough votes to pass.\nThe bills will likely face an even steeper uphill climb in the Senate, where legislation will need at least 60 votes to advance.\nPolitical observers have suggested Trump is hoping to use the tragedy of the family separations at the border as leverage to achieve his goals on immigration.\n(Photo: Gage Skidmore)\nCopyright RTT News/dpa-AFX}}
{{The video will start in 8 Cancel\nGet daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nWhether you’re looking to lose last minute extra pounds before Christmas, or ready to start the New Year New You regeime, Coventry’s gyms will be open for the Christmas period.\nMost are closed on Christmas Day, but there are still the odd reliable gym open for your fitness fix.\nIf you don’t want to spend too many pounds sterling on the process then you’ve come to the right place - on most of the sites it takes a lot of digging to find the prices which then makes comparing like with like rather tricky, even within the same company.\nOur guide to many of the leading gyms, leisure centres and more will help you to choose the one which suits you best at the right price.\nSome gyms within a group can have wildly differing prices.\nThe rest, then, is up to you.\nNo sweat!\nDavid Lloyd:\n23 December 09:00 / 19:00\nChristmas Eve 08:00 / 16:00\nBoxing Day 08:00 / 16:00\n27 December 06:30 / 22:00\n28 December 06:30 / 22:00\n29 December 06:30 / 22:00\n30 December 08:00 / 21:00\nNew Years Eve 08:00 / 16:00\nNew Years Day 08:00 / 16:00\nPure gym:\nBoth of Coventry’s Pure Gym sites are open across Christmas and New Year - including Christmas Day and New Year’s Day.\nThere are gyms in both the city centre and at Warwickshire Shopping Park.\nMember Services will close at 10pm 23rd December and will re-open on 26th December at 10am - 4pm. Usual opening hours will resume the following day.\nMember Services will close at 4pm on 31st December and re-open at 8am on 2nd January 2018.\nJD Gyms:\nChristmas Eve: 8am-4pm\nChristmas Day: CLOSED\nBoxing Day: 8am-4pm\nWeds December 27: 6am-10pm\nThursday December 28: 6am-10pm\nFriday December 29: 6am-10pm\nSaturday December 30: 8am-4pm\nNew Years Eve: 8am-4pm\nNew Years Day: 10am-6pm\nTuesday January 2: 6am-10pm\nSimply Gym Coventry:\nChristmas Eve: 8am-2pm\nChristmas Day: CLOSED\nBoxing Day: CLOSED\nWeds December 27: 6.30am- 10pm\nThursday December 28: 6.30am- 10pm\nFriday December 29: 6.30am- 9pm\nSaturday December 30: 8am-7pm\nNew Years Eve: 8am-2pm\nNew Years Day: CLOSED\nTuesday January 2: 6.30am-10pm\nFuture Fitness:\nChristmas Eve: 8am-2pm\nChristmas Day: CLOSED\nBoxing Day: 8am-1pm\nWeds December 27: 6am-10pm\nThursday December 28: 6am-10pm\nFriday December 29: 6am-10pm\nSaturday December 30: 8am-5pm\nNew Years Eve: 8am-2pm\nNew Years Day: CLOSED\nTuesday January 2: 6.30am-10pm}}
{{Sociologists explain why the holiday season is so widely celebrated in the country\nPublished 6:27 PM, December 24, 2017\nMANILA, Philippines – It’s no secret that the holiday season is widely celebrated in the Philippines. Filipinos prepare for the season with much anticipation. So much so that the Social Weather Stations surveys Filipinos yearly to know the public’s sentiments and expectations of Christmas.\nIn the last decade alone, expectations of a happy Christmas have increased by more than 10%, with 64% of Filipinos saying they expect a happy Christmas in 2007 compared to 77% in 2017.\nBut why do Filipinos love Christmas? Rappler spoke with sociologists Dr Jayeel Cornelio of the Ateneo de Manila University and Dr Manuel Sapitula of the University of the Philippines to find out why the holiday season is so widely celebrated in the country.\nFestivals, families, traditions\nChristmas is beloved in the Philippines because it is first and foremost regarded as a festival. Sapitula said this means that culturally, there is already the expectation of celebration that sets it apart from other days or seasons in the year.\n“The way festivals work, it should sort of transcend the banality of the ordinariness of just like any day of the year... there is a heightened sense of awareness that things will be different,” he said.\nCornelio added that the positive outlook for Christmas is also partly influenced by the disposition with which the Church celebrates the Advent season. With over 80% of the population considered Catholic, Filipinos also celebrate Christmas as a largely religious occasion.\n“The positive outlook towards Christmas is partly framed by the way the Church celebrates it: there is the Advent season. It's a very positive disposition towards the arrival of Christ. In this sense, the Filipino's happy disposition is very much religious – think of Misa de Gallo, carolling, outreach activities,” he said.\nAccording to Sapitula, the traditions and the religious practices that mark the season are also what gives Filipinos a sense of ownership of Christmas.\n"Filipinos have a sense of ownership of Christmas. There are many traditions that are enveloped around Christmas... Even before the modern period, like the 1900s, those were already there: traditional re-enactments, Simbang Gabi – what we call 'cultural appropriations,'" Sapitula said.\nChristmas is also widely celebrated as a time for family. Many overseas Filipino workers (OFWs) who live and work abroad majority of the year usually come home for the holidays to spend time with families at home.\n“Christmas is not just a religious moment. It is very cultural: OFWs are expected to be home, families are to be reunited. This means that Christmas is not just about the birth of a child as much as it is about the family itself,” Cornelio said.\nHowever, Cornelio also added that the fact that not all Filipinos are religious cannot be discounted.\n“Most of the time, when we frame Christmas as a Filipino event in anticipation of joy, we are referring to Catholics and other Christian groups that celebrate the event. We disregard Iglesia ni Cristo, Jehovah's Witness, agnostics, Muslims, etc. We need to bear this in mind,” Cornelio said.\n'Fanfare of desires'\nBoth sociologists, however, added that Christmas is also considered a happy time of the year because of its wide commercialization and the practice of gift-giving.\n“While our culture celebrates camaraderie and cheerfulness, Christmas is in itself a fanfare of desires: the joy of the family is intertwined with the joys of travel, expensive gifts, bountiful feasts, sale, and all that,” Cornelio said.\nSapitula added, “Festivals are supposed to be joyful occasions and we can’t ignore the monetary dimension of festivals: people are willing to spend. More so because gifts are expected, it's a way of reaffirming ties…by gift-giving we're able to renew the sense of obligation you have for one another. Christmas is really a time when we reaffirm that.”\nFor Sapitula, the SWS survey results may also be closely related to the purchasing power of Filipinos. Since the season calls for spending on gifts, travel, and the celebration itself, many who can afford to celebrate the season may expect it to be a happier occasion.\n“I think more Filipinos are getting richer, so they are expecting a happier Christmas…Hindi pinapatay technically, ng purchasing power yung (Purchasing power does not technically kill) cultural expectations – it stays there, and I think part of the reason why people are looking forward to it is they have the means to fully abide by cultural expectations of how it's celebrated,” he said.\nReligious or commercial?\nWith an abundance of religious meaning and commercial symbols like Santa Claus inherent in the season, would the practice of celebrating Christmas be largely commercial or religious?\nFor Sapitula and Cornelio, the two dimensions are intertwined.\n“They mutually reinforce each other. They’re always connected because there are always commercial implications of religious practices. You don't do religious practices in a vacuum,” Sapitula said.\nHe also explained that while the essence of Christmas is religious in character, a lot of economic activity is spurred because values of Christmas may be expressed economically.\n“The essence is really religious in character but it spurs a lot of economic activity. Hindi lang 'yun 'yung tipong i-affirm mo na "Pare, friends tayo." (You don't affirm ties by just saying “We’re friends.”) You really give something as gifts to be able to physically demonstrate the ties still exist,” Sapitula said.\nFor Cornelio, this has allowed Christmas to become universally celebrated, regardless of its religious essence. “I do not necessarily see it as a problem because it allows Christmas to become universally palatable regardless of one's religious persuasion,” he said.\nHowever, Cornelio mentioned that this is also what has allowed those who experience Christmas as a rather difficult time to be overshadowed. (READ: [OPINION] When Christmas is no longer merry)\n“What I find problematic about the jubilation over Christmas is that it tends to ignore the realities of loneliness in our midst. Any celebration that is blind to the pain of people is not being faithful to the very story of Christmas – a story in which the unheard of (shepherds) came to hear the angels first.”\nHappy moving forward?\nWith the number of events that have happened in the past year, will Christmas still stand as a joyful season? (READ: Davao City cancels Christmas, New Year feasts to condole with fire, flood victims)\n2017 saw events such as the war in Marawi, extrajudicial killings, and deaths from the drug war, as well as several cases that have challenged our institutions making headlines. While these will linger over the Christmas period, Sapitula explained what is important is to look at how these events might translate over the course of the next few years. (READ: Mindanaoans most opitimistic abput Christmas, until...)\n“You have to look beneath the surface because externally it will look the same. It's the same Christmas songs, the same decors, the same hype. But there may be peculiarities in the social environment that might affect how people appreciate Christmas,” he said.\nSapitula added, “If people are in a state of grief, you cannot expect (them to be happy). Pero cumulative effect siya, hindi puwede na isang taon lang. (But it should be a cumulative effect, not just one year.) If there is a sense of persistence, that means to say it's the social conditions that are themselves shifting.”\nSWS reported 77% of Filipinos expect a happy Christmas this year, while a much lower 5% expect it to be sad. For Cornelio, this illustrates how Christmas is telling of the Filipino nature to always look for good things.\n“Many Filipinos are always looking for good things. Christmas is one of those seasons that allow us to see the good things…We're happy when things end right. Christmas is a good way of ending things right, even if it's just ephemeral,” he said. – Rappler.com}}
{{Dr. Donald Harvey Gilden, former chairman of the University of Colorado School of Medicine Department of Neurology, died in Denver on Monday of cancer. He was 78.\nBorn in Baltimore in 1937, Gilden’s parents were Jewish immigrants — his father from Poland and his mother’s family from Belarus. Raised in Baltimore, Gilden played a season of semi-pro baseball before attending Dartmouth College in 1955. Gilden graduated, with honors, in 1963 from the University of Maryland School of Medicine.\nHe completed neurology residency at the University of Chicago where he met his future wife, Audrey. After residency, Gilden served as a physician in the U.S. Army for two years at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center.\nIn 1985, Gilden moved with his family to Colorado from Philadelphia to become chairman of the CU school of medicine’s neurology department. Over 25 years with CU, Gilden expanded the department from under ten full-time faculty members to a staff of close to fifty.\n“Don was a wonderful mentor,” said Dr. Maria Nagel, a CU school of medicine colleague. “He had an ability to identify projects that would ultimately improve human health, bring collaborators together and successfully drive the science forward. He had profound respect for academic medicine and his partners in science. Even in hospice care, he thoughtfully planned the future direction of the lab and career development of his beloved colleagues.”\nGilden was a National Institutes of Health funded researcher who published more than 420 scientific papers and book chapters. He also edited several books on virus infections of the central nervous system. A 1994 editorial by Gilden on shingles, published in The New England Journal of Medicine, promoted increased attention to developing shingles vaccines.\nIn the latter part of his career, Gilden’s lab demonstrated that varicella zoster virus (VZV), which causes chicken pox and shingles, can also cause strokes and aneurysms. In 2015, his research group published a paper on VZV as a cause of giant cell arteritis, a disease that can cause headaches and vision loss in the elderly.\nA musician, Gilden played violin every morning and was known to give musical performances at scientific conferences he attended. He skied for more than 20 years and was able to ski this past winter after being diagnosed with cancer.\n“Above everything else, Dad was a family man,” said Daniel Gilden, his son. “He looked forward the most to the times he could spend with his wife, children, daughters-in-law, and grandchildren. He was an incredibly loving, affectionate person. He lived life every day to the fullest.”\nGilden is survived by his wife, Audrey, of 49 years; three sons, Daniel, Adam and Paul; a sister Devera; and six grandchildren.\nA memorial service was held on Thursday at Congregation Rodef Shalom in Denver.\nContributions may be made to Congregation Rodef Shalom or Hadassah Medical Organization.}}
{{An estimated 120,000 families will benefit from a new £100 national minimum school clothing grant in Scotland as a result of partnership working between Scotland’s Local Authorities and the Scottish Government.\nIt means for the first time all eligible families, regardless of their local authority area, will have access to the same minimum level of financial support for school clothing.\nThe scheme will open in time for the 2018/19 academic year with eligibility determined at a local level.\nOverall annual costs are expected to reach £12 million with 50% of the cost met by additional Scottish Government funding and 50% met by individual local authorities.\nThe grant will be reviewed every two years to ensure that the amount available remains in line with cost of living.\nDeputy First Minister and Cabinet Secretary for Education and Skills John Swinney said: “Every child in Scotland should be able to attend school feeling comfortable, confident and ready to learn.\n“We know that school uniforms can be a considerable cost for families which is why we have worked in partnership with COSLA to introduce a new national minimum school clothing grant.\n“It will help relieve pressure on families, reduce costs of living and remove the stress and stigma which can often be associated with struggling to afford essential school items.”\nCouncillor Stephen McCabe, COSLA’s Spokesperson for Children and Young People, said: “School uniform can be a significant cost to families and COSLA are delighted that, together with Scottish Government, all councils will be introducing an increased minimum school clothing grant across the country.\n“Every child in Scotland deserves the best chance in life and for too long poverty has blighted the life chances of too many of our children and young people. Access to decent clothing is an important part of ensuring children have the best chance of getting the most from their education. Therefore it is only right that we do the best we can to create as much of a level playing field as we can in terms of school uniform.\n“Scotland’s councils are committed to making the learning experience as positive as possible for our young people. Today’s announcement is another step in the right direction towards achieving this aim.”}}
{{THE RESPONSIBILITY of dealing with all major incidents or catastrophe’s on Christmas day, will fall on the shouldes of Powys’ top copper.\nPowys Divisional Commander, Superintendent Jon Cummins will be on call for 24 hours over Christmas Day.\nHe will be Gold Commander if any major incidents crop up acrioss the Force area, one of the biggest geographic area in the UK.\nThis means he will be responsible for any firearms, public order, critical or major incidents across the force area during that time.\nSupt Cummins said: “As I’m the Powys superintendent I will be working early morning to chair the Powys daily management meeting (DMM) with the management team, where we will review crime and incidents overnight, or any ongoing incidents, and I will then later chair the whole force DMM.\n“Both of these, I hope, will be short meetings as I don’t anticipate any critical incidents or investigation – but you never know, there have been major incidents in the force area on Christmas Day in the past.\n“After DMM and meeting with staff, I will later go home and revert to being on call, unless anything is on-going and requires my oversight. I’ll be covering the whole force, not just Powys, as gold commander.”\nThis is not the first time Mr Cummins, who transferred to Dyfed-Powys Police from The Met in 2014, has worked on Christmas Day – in fact he’s been on duty for the majority of them in his time as a police officer.\nHe’s hoping that this year he will still be able to spend the majority of the day with his wife and two children, although there will be the anticipation that he would be called in in the event of a major incident.\nSupt Cummins added: “I have probably worked eight out of the last 10 Christmases.\n“I always thought that when I didn’t have kids that I would volunteer to work Christmas Day so I could have the payback when I did have a family.\nUnfortunately you move on to different roles in different teams so you don’t end up working with the same people who can offer that return.\n“My children will probably be up at 5.30am because they’re so excited about Christmas, so we’ll open our presents early and then I’ll come in to work.\nAs long as everything is ok, I hope to be back at home in time for dinner.”\nMr Cummins added that for the officers on shift over Christmas there will still be a sense of festivity as they will try to celebrate together in the morning.\n“A lot of officers will have a Christmas breakfast together,” he said. “They will get together and someone will be nominated to cook a fry up for them. We’re all in it together.\n“When you become a police officer you know you could end up working on Christmas Days and other holidays. We are here to serve the public, and our role doesn’t stop for Christmas.\n“We hope everyone has a happy and trouble-free day, but please remember we are here if you need us.”\nIf you need police assistance over Christmas, call handlers will be available 24/7.\nCall 999 if there is an immediate threat to a person or property, or 101 to make a non-urgent report. You can also email contactcentre@dyfed-powys.pnn.police.uk for slow-time, non-emergency queries or advice.}}
{{LAKE PLACID, N.Y. — Canada's Kim McRae finished in seventh place at the luge World Cup in Lake Placid, N.Y. on Sunday morning.\nCompeting in a condensed three-race schedule in the post-Olympic year while juggling school, the 26-year-old chalked up a seventh-place finish in only her second race of the season. She made her return to the World Cup last weekend with a third-place finish on her home track in Calgary.\n"It was pretty good, but honestly, everyone put their A game down today," said McRae. "I feel like I am in a good place. I just wanted to come out and have two really good runs. They were good, but I need to work more on the start."\nThe Calgary native clocked a two-run time of one minute 28.115 seconds down the twisty and challenging 16-corner track in the Adirondack Mountains. She was third on the Lake Placid track last year.\n"I do love this track. It is fun and different than most tracks around the world, but I find once you get on line then it becomes easier," said McRae, whose next race will be the 2019 world championship.\n"I have been pretty tired. It is hard to switch the brain on and off from school and racing in the middle of exams. I am confident heading to worlds though. I know I will be more refreshed then not having to compete in the middle of exams. I will work on putting a little more strength into my starts, and consistency in my sliding."\nMcRae finished with three German and three American sleds ahead of her. It was the high-powered Germans sweeping the podium.\nDajana Eitberger was first at 1:27.674. Natalie Geisenberger took the silver medal at 1:27.705, while Julia Taubitz slid to third place with a time of 1:27.929.\nTwo Calgary-based teenagers also hit the start handles for the women's race. Brooke Apshkrum finished in 22nd spot at 1:29.297. Carolyn Maxwell, who is coming off a career-best 10h-place finish, was 23rd at 1:29.325.}}
{{Dozens of teenage boys die every year across South Africa as a result of being sent to unlawful initiation schools.\nJOHANNESBURG - With the 2017 initiation season expected to begin next Wednesday, Gauteng Cooperative Governance MEC Paul Mashatile is encouraging parents to ensure the initiation schools they've chosen to enrol their children are legal.\nDozens of teenage boys die every year across South Africa as a result of being sent to unlawful initiation schools.\nAccording to the CRL Rights Commission, over the past three years, a total 251 young men have died during the initiation season in six provinces.\nMashatile's spokesperson Mogomotsi Mogodiri said: “MEC Mashatile would like to caution parents not to take their children to initiation schools which are not registered and as the provincial government, we call upon communities to be on the lookout for anyone who masquerades as an initiation surgeon.”}}
{{Video\nAntar Davidson was a youth migrant shelter worker in Arizona, but left after a new "zero-tolerance" policy came into place.\nHe spoke to the BBC World Service's Newsday radio programme about why he felt he had to quit.}}
{{Firefighters work at the scene of a blaze which resulted in the deaths of at least 16 migrant workers in Moscow, Russia on Saturday morning. The workers are said to have been from Kyrgyzstan and were trapped in a room by the fire, which broke out on the fourth floor of a printing company. It is believed to have been started by a broken lamp.}}
{{The video will start in 8 Cancel\nClick to play Tap to play\nGet Daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nPolice are hunting burglars who stole wrapped Christmas presents from their victim’s home.\nThe property, in Stanley Road, Market Bosworth, was targeted between 9am and 11am yesterday.\nLeicestershire Police said the intruders forced open a conservatory door and conducted an “untidy" search.\nIn a post on Facebook, members of the town’s beat team said the raiders stole items including wrapped Christmas presents.\nOfficers have spoken to neighbours and want to trace two men who were seen in the area around the time of the break-in.\nThe men are white and aged 30 to 40. Both had beards.\n(Image: Google)\nThey might have left the area in a small, rusty-brown coloured car.\nThe officers wrote: “If anyone remembers a similar described vehicle and has a dash-cam in their car that may have captured the number plate, please contact 101.”\nInformation can also be sent to the beat team by email:\nphilip.hale@leicestershire.pnn.police.uk\nWe've just launched our very own app for Android and Apple devices which can be tailored to deliver the news and sport that you're interested in.\nTo download the IOS app click here.\nTo download the Android app click here.}}
{{Governor cites 'misperception' on Michigan school closures\nLANSING, Mich. (AP) — Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder is urging calm before the state releases a list of its lowest-performing public schools, saying there's a "misperception" schools will be closed.\nThe Republican says Michigan is required to publish the bottom 5 percent list by next week. But he told The Associated Press on Friday it's wrong to assume listed schools will receive closure notices.\nHis comments come two days after education leaders publicly raised concerns, saying closing schools wouldn't improve student achievement. They say Snyder's administration has privately told some school officials that closures could happen for 2017-18 if schools are listed for three straight years.}}
{{This story was originally published by Sportsnet.\nSidney Crosby has to think about it but only for two seconds.\nThe only player to captain all three national teams on his Triple Gold Club membership card, Crosby takes just a moment when we ask him at Gatorade’s GCamp to name the most exciting newcomer to Canada’s squad for September’s World Cup of Hockey.\n“That’s tough,” he says. Then a smile creeps across his two-time Stanley-Cup-sipping, two-time Olympic-gold-biting mouth. “An interesting one for me is Brad Marchand.”\nRat Fink. Honey Badger. The Little Ball of Hate. If Marchand isn’t getting under your skin, he’s clawing on top of it, lingering like tattoo regret.\nCrosby, 29, and Marchand, 28, have had their share of NHL run-ins, both literally and rhetorically.\n“You’re so used to playing against him, you know the way he plays,” Crosby chuckles.\n“Having him on your team is going to be so much more enjoyable than having to play against him. Having a local guy, someone who’s from the same area, I think that’s pretty special to be competing for Team Canada with someone like that.”\nA bond is forming between the two Nova Scotian stars, who frequently skate together in the summer alongside other local guys like Nathan MacKinnon, though Crosby admits that Marchand has a wicked knack for ticking him off during Bruins-Penguins tilts.\nMarchand won back-to-back gold medals representing Canada at the 2007 and 2008 world juniors, and his game has steadily improved as a pro. Failing to make the cut for the 2010 and 2014 Olympic Games, Marchand won a late-addition spot on the 2016 World Cup roster with his career-best 37-goal, 60-point campaign in 2015-16. Helping Canada defend world championship gold in May (seven points in 10 games) didn’t hurt, either.\n“You look at the season he had—he’s proven he can be a lot more than just an agitator. He’s a really good player, but part of his game is playing a tough brand [of hockey]. Playing right on that edge,” Crosby says. “He’s had a tremendous career so far. I think that’ll be someone fun to join up with.”\nThis is an excerpt of this story. Read the rest at Sportsnet.}}
{{Lots of aspirants who’re on a journey for the United states of america of America think twice before hiring an immigration lawyer for their requires. However they overlook the truth that a lawyer can make it less difficult for them as an expert in the field usually aids. Normally visa applicants are within the course of action of gaining permanent residence or becoming a U S citizen. Though hiring an immigration lawyer or lawyer may be challenging because you can find a lot of possibilities the pros normally score more than the cons! Get much more information about Immigration Lawyers Edmonton\nThis can be because immigration attorneys can give one superior possibilities of acquiring a green card and applying for citizenship in the U S. A lawyer has the time, expertise, understanding and abilities so that the job gets completed more quickly.\nHOW DOES One particular Select A great LAWYER?\nAn immigration lawyer should be selected only just after excellent deliberation. You may need one with encounter, one particular who knows the laws “inside-out”, a single who can give you the finer information and educate you adequately, who’s very affordable and who gives benefits.\nLet us highlight some added benefits gained in hiring a good immigration lawyer.\nPositive aspects OF HIRING A LAWYER\nAssists Using the Details AND DOCUMENTATION: Let’s accept it. The path to immigration is fraught with paperwork, documentation, intricate legal details and practices. Furthermore, the laws can be extremely complex. When you strategy to operate in the States just after receiving a green card or U S citizenship then you definitely really should be well-acquainted with all the guidelines and regulations. A lawyer will help you with just that.\nSolutions ARE Superior EXPLAINED: A very good immigration lawyer does not just allow you to out together with the paper work but he also aids you with all of the alternatives offered – most of which we’re frequently not conscious of. Are you currently eligible for automatic citizenship? How do you get citizenship through marriage? Just how much does it price in case you wish to file to get a green card? What would be the laws that one demands to comply with just after one receives the green card? All these and other pertinent inquiries might be addressed by a very good lawyer with alacrity.\nEDUCATION ON PERMANENT RESIDENT LAWS\nA fantastic immigration lawyer can help you using a right understanding with the laws pertaining to permanent residence; or using the laws that you just need to abide by should you be a green card holder. The lawyer can come in handy even when you are unsure of one’s eligibility of permanent resident status and may enable you to in going through your case for betterment.\nCan assist YOU GET A JOB LEGALLY\nA very good lawyer might help you get a job through legal indicates; for those who want to earn major salaries you could advantage by employing the solutions of a very good immigration lawyer who can cut by way of all that paperwork.}}
{{Effective with our August 17, 2016 issue, the Voice is ending free Canada Post delivery of the paper.\nWhile the vast majority of our circulation is by newspaper carrier—your local neighbours and their entrepreneurial kids—Canada Post has delivered the Voice to less densely built-up areas of Pelham since the paper’s founding.\nUnfortunately, the Voice is simply not able to continue shouldering the entire cost of this free service.\nIf you have previously received your Voice by mail delivery, there are two options.\nOne, pick up a free copy at the many locations around town which carry the paper. If there is a gas bar, convenience store, or other retail outlet near you that does not yet carry the Voice, please let us know at: [email protected]\nOr two, take out a postal subscription to the paper to ensure timely delivery straight to your mailbox.\nYearly (51 issue) subscriptions are $49.95 + HST—that’s less than a dollar per week, and far less than the cost of a single Timmy’s run.\nPayment may be made over the phone by credit card by calling 905-892-8690, Monday-Thursday, 8 AM – 2 PM, or by cheque mailed to or dropped off at our office in Fonthill.\nThank you for supporting Pelham’s only truly local newspaper.}}
{{Get Daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nFor most of us, the nativity play is a rite of passage into school life.\nWhether you were playing the shepherd, Mary or Joseph or you got more of a side role in the play, it's something that we have all had the pleasure of taking part in.\nHere at the Scunthorpe Telegraph, we have taken a look through our archives to feature some of the best pictures of Nativity plays in our area.\nHave a watch of our video gallery to see if you spot yourself, and let us know what character you played in your school nativity in the comments or on our Facebook page.\nYou can also find some of our galleries from little ones in their Nativity plays from this year here.}}
{{People have surprisingly strong feelings about Chicken Bones.\nThe pink, cinnamony candies with the bittersweet chocolate filling have been a Christmas staple on the East Coast since 1885.\nPresident and CEO Bryana Ganong's family has been in the candy-making business for five generations. (Ganong Bros. Ltd. )\nMany New Brunswickers have fond memories of crunching them straight from Grandma's candy dish or sucking them down to a sliver to melt the chocolate inside.\nMention Chicken Bones outside the Maritimes, though, and you're likely to be met with confused stares.\nThe poultry-inspired name, and the sweet-and-spicy flavour, are "polarizing," according to Bryana Ganong, CEO of Ganong Brothers.\n"It's very different," Ganong said. "There aren't many cinnamon-chocolate combos, [but] people who like that flavour combo really love it. People really have an emotional connection to them."\nFinding out how the oddball candy got its name, and how it reached such cult status, requires a look back at its long history.\nCandy-pulling hotshot\nAn American candy-maker named Frank Sparhawk arrived over 132 years ago in St. Stephen to take a job that a Ganong had advertised in the Baltimore papers.\nSparhawk was a slight, mustachioed hard-candy specialist who, it was claimed, could pull 550 pounds of stick candy a day — 200 pounds more than the average worker.\nHe was also, according to David Folster's The Chocolate Ganongs of St. Stephen, an artist capable of hand-crafting confections decorated with intricate pictures and even written messages.\nA candy-maker hand rolls Chicken Bones at the Ganong plant in an undated photo. The candy has been handcrafted in the same way for its entire 132-year history. (Submitted by Ganong Bros. Ltd. )\nThe late 19th century was the heyday of hard candy, with candy companies vying for attention with creatively named products like Doo-Doos, Cat's Eyes and Black Jacks.\nGanong Bros. was releasing up to three new varieties every month, which would then be retired and replaced.\nSparhawk rose to the challenge. Chicken Bones were one of his many creations for Ganong.\n"Apparently, he was quite talented," Bryana Ganong said.\nNo bones about it\nWhy Sparhawk went with the name "Chicken Bones" — or how, for that matter, the candy has become so inextricably linked with Christmas — is still a mystery.\n"There's been a lot of speculation about how they were named, although they do look a little bit like a chicken bone with the chocolate inside," said Ganong.\n'People say things like, 'The holidays aren't the holidays without Chicken Bones.''' - Bryana Ganong , president and CEO of Ganong Bros . Ltd.\nThe process hasn't changed much since the 19th century.\nThe hard candy is cooked in copper kettles, allowed to cool slightly, then hand-mixed with flavour and colour.\n"You have this huge, big, pink piece of candy on a table," said Ganong. "Then the bittersweet chocolate is spread on the top, then it's rolled over like a big jellyroll."\nAs the oversized mega-Chicken Bone gets turned in front of a flame, a candy maker hand-pulls it into a thin rope with the right amount of chocolate in each piece.\n"The candy makers who do the Chicken Bones are artists — they're craftsmen," Ganong said. Only three workers in the plant are trained to make Chicken Bones, which is seen as position of prestige.\nA machine cuts the rope into the traditional rectangular bites that get sold by the millions every year.\n"We're still hand-crafting them today the same way that we did in 1885," said Ganong.\nMolasses, peanut butter version\nOther companies have moved in to cash in on the popularity of the iconic candy.\nRobertson's Candy and Confections, founded in Truro, N.S., in 1928, has made a lower-priced version year-round for "decades," according to owner Paul Furlong.\nRobertson's Candy, founded in 1928 in Truro, N.S., makes a version of the Chicken Bone. (Submitted by Robertson's Candy Company)\nIn the U.S., the Idaho Candy Company has manufactured a totally different (but equally weird) take on the Chicken Bone involving peanut butter-filled molasses candy coated in toasted coconut.\n"There are a number of different companies, including one in Quebec, that makes a Chicken Bone," Ganong said, "but their process is a little bit different than ours is, and ours has a brighter pink tone and a real crunch and it's very shiny.\n"When you see them in stores, you can tell that they're different."\nGotta live here to get 'em\nAlthough Chicken Bones are available across the country, only East Coast residents can be sure of year-round access to the original Chicken Bone.\nMaritimers living elsewhere in Canada might have to look a little harder to find them on store shelves or order them online.\nAttention East Coasters in Ottawa, does anyone know where I can get my hands on Ganong chicken bones in the National Capital Region? It's a Christmas emergency pic.twitter.com/gzu4ZSuQ5O — @cattunneycbc\nAt Christmas, "Chicken Bones are by far the biggest seller," Ganong said. "People say things like, 'The holidays aren't the holidays without Chicken Bones.'"\nIn 2017, Ganong Brothers Ltd. — the oldest candy company in the country — has all but stopped making hard candies.\nExcept for Chicken Bones, that is. Love 'em or hate 'em, it looks like they're here to stay.}}
{{The husband of murdered MP Jo Cox has delivered this year’s alternative Christmas message in which he called for an end to the “rise of hatred”.\nBrendan Cox paid tribute to his wife and reflected on the “awful year for our family” in the Channel 4 broadcast.\nThanks @channel4 for letting me share what I think Jo's message would have been this Christmas #moreincommon https://t.co/Xvm2qlmp8r — Brendan Cox (@MrBrendanCox) December 25, 2016\nHe also told viewers that now is the “moment to reach out to somebody that might disagree with us”.\nThe message was lauded by those on social media.\n"Now is not a moment to shout louder into our echo chambers. It’s a moment to reach out."Well said @MrBrendanCox #moreincommon #LoveLikeJo https://t.co/HiU0phgqZh — Richard Burden MP (@RichardBurdenMP) December 25, 2016\nBrilliant and wise Alternative Christmas Message from @MrBrendanCox But I'd expect nothing less from him. — Blair McDougall (@blairmcdougall) December 25, 2016\nMrs Cox was shot and stabbed to death by neo-Nazi Thomas Mair in her Batley and Spen constituency days before June’s EU referendum.\nThe 41-year-old, the mother of two young children, was an outspoken critic of strategic policy in Syria and a humanitarian who campaigned for women’s rights around the world.\nHer husband of seven years recorded the tribute on the converted Dutch barge which the family called home.\n@MrBrendanCox @Channel4 this is truly inspiring, thank you for sharing her message with us, we will carry this message forward #MoreInCommon — Adam David Best (@adamdavidbest10) December 25, 2016\nIn the message, which is traditionally billed as an alternative to the Queen’s annual Christmas Day address, Mr Cox said: “Jo loved Christmas, the games, the traditions, the coming together of friends and family and above all the excitement of our kids.\n“This year we’ll try to remember how lucky we were to have Jo in our lives for so long – and not how unlucky we were to have her taken from us.\n“2016 has been an awful year for our family, and it’s been a divisive one for the wider world.”\nBrendan Cox's message was even more motivating than I thought it would be. Made me think of further @DMUSquareMile/#loveinternational stuff — Dominic Shellard (@DMUVC) December 25, 2016\nExtremely moving alternative Christmas message from Brendan Cox. — kim cocking (@kimcocking1) December 25, 2016\nI'm in awe of @MrBrendanCox's extraordinary fortitude - please watch his Christmas Day message https://t.co/uEfenWJo8c — Jane Merrick (@janemerrick23) December 25, 2016\nThe only Christmas message you need to listen to this year X #moreincommon https://t.co/sg7nYe9ARv — Bradley Foster (@_BradleyFoster) December 25, 2016\nMr Cox added that his wife quoted Edmund Burke, who said that all that is necessary for evil to triumph is for good men and women “to do nothing”, just a few weeks before she died.\nIn previous years the alternative Christmas message has been delivered by whistle-blower Edward Snowden, the parents of murdered teenager Stephen Lawrence, campaigner Katie Piper and reality star Sharon Osbourne.}}
{{July 3 (Reuters) - The following U.S.- and Canada-listed companies reported earnings on Wednesday. This list shows whether they beat, met or missed Wall Street analysts' forecasts. It also shows the difference between analysts' expectations and reported results. The figures are provided by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Company Name Ticker Qtr Industry Curr EPS Est EPS Act Diff EPS Rev Est Rev Act Diff Rev INTERNATIONAL SPEEDWAY C Q2 LEISURE USD 0.50 0.52 0.03 182.3 179.6 -2.7 MTY FOOD GROUP INC Q2 UNDESIGNATED CONR SVC CAD 0.29 0.33 0.04 24.4 25.3 0.9 POSTMEDIA NETWORK CANADA Q3 COMMUNICATIONS CAD 0.03 -0.01 -0.04 200.4 191.8 -8.7 SANDVINE CORPORATION Q2 TELEPHONE UTILITIES USD 0.01 0.01 0.00 25.1 23.5 -1.6}}
{{In this photo released early Sunday Dec. 25, 2016, Britain's Queen Elizabeth II poses for a photo, sitting at a desk in the Regency Room of Buckingham Palace in London, after recording her traditional Christmas Day broadcast to the Commonwealth. Queen Elizabeth prerecords her traditional Christmas Day festive speech to be broadcast to the British Commonwealth nations on Christmas Day. (Yui Mok / Pool via AP)\nSANDRINGHAM, England (AP) — A bad cold kept Queen Elizabeth II from attending the traditional Christmas morning church service near her Sandringham estate in rural Norfolk, England, raising some concerns about her health.\nIt's extremely rare for Elizabeth, now 90, to miss the service, which is a cornerstone of the royal family's Christmas celebrations and brings the monarch into contact with locals who gather outside for a glimpse of her.\n"The Queen continues to recover from a heavy cold and will stay indoors to assist with her recovery," Buckingham Palace said. "Her Majesty will participate in the royal family Christmas celebrations during the day."\nThose festivities included a gala lunch. In past years, the royal family would often go for extended walks in the countryside.\nElizabeth has been in generally good health and has maintained an active schedule in the last year despite traveling less often than in the past. Recently she stepped down as patron for about 20 charities and groups to lighten her work load.\nHer husband, 95-year-old Prince Philip, has also cut back on his public schedule and his charitable works in the last few years. He was also suffering from a severe cold earlier in the week, the palace said.\nPhilip did attend the Sunday morning Christmas service, waving to well-wishers on his way out of the church in a car.\nPrince Harry spent time talking to locals after the church service and stopped to pet a dog. There was no sign of his girlfriend, American actress Meghan Markle, who recently visited him in London.\nElizabeth and Philip were joined in Sandringham by other senior royals including Prince Charles. Prince William and his wife Kate, along with their two children, Prince George and Princess Charlotte, were celebrating Christmas with Kate's parents at their home in Bucklebury, a village west of London.\nThe queen used her annual pre-recorded Christmas Day message to praise British Olympic and Paralympic athletes and others who inspired her. The traditional message of goodwill was televised throughout Britain and much of the Commonwealth.\nThe broadcast included video of her 90th birthday celebrations and a gigantic street party attended by charity workers from across Britain. The soft-spoken queen praised ordinary people for pitching in to do good works.\n"To be inspirational, you don't have to save lives or win medals. I often draw strength from meeting ordinary people doing extraordinary things — volunteers, carers, community organizers and good neighbors. Unsung heroes whose quiet dedication makes them special," she said.\nShe also praised the charitable foundations started by Philip and Charles some 60 and 40 years ago, respectively.\nRelated:\nFor more news videos visit Yahoo View, available now on iOS and Android.\n___\nKatz reported from London.}}
{{“If you catch a Christmas tree on fire, they are spectacular,” Cmdr Murphy said. “They turn into a huge ball of fire. It would have involved the whole room very quickly.\n“I believe they are of German decent and they were demonstrating to their grandchildren a traditional German Christmas.\n“I’d say the grandchildren were quite young. I would like to remind everybody how dangerous real candles on a Christmas tree can be.”\nFirefighters were initially concerned there were people still in the house when they arrived.\nThe elderly couple, their grandchildren and their parents were all accounted for before firefighters tackled the blaze near Durrington Hill, Worthing.\nCmdr Murphy said the fire was well developed when they arrived five minutes after getting 999 call.}}
{{* C$ at $1.0510 to US$, or 95.15 U.S. cents * Higher oil prices boost commodity-driven currency * Buyers seek value following steep decline * Shrinking trade deficit ignored as jobs data looms By Cameron French TORONTO, July 3 (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar gained versus its U.S. counterpart on Wednesday, rebounding from Tuesday's 21-month lows as strong oil prices lifted the currency, while its recent decline enticed value seekers. U.S. crude topped $100 a barrel for the first time since September on concerns about Egyptian unrest and tight supplies. Higher oil prices typically boost the Canadian dollar because Canada is a major supplier of oil to the U.S. market. With activity muted ahead of the U.S. Independence Day holiday on Thursday and the release of major jobs data on Friday, buyers sought to take advantage of the currency's 3.4 percent slide since mid-June. "It has moved a long way in a relatively short period of time, and now that things have quieted down a little bit, people are trying to pick away and look for some value," said Mark Chandler, head of fixed income and currency strategy at RBC Capital Markets. The loonie, as Canada's currency is colloquially known, has shed value in recent weeks as the U.S. Federal Reserve signals its intention to scale back the asset purchases that have supported equity and bond markets. Meanwhile, uneven Canadian economic data has investors continuing to wonder how soon the Bank of Canada will act on its long-held threat to raise interest rates. Chandler said he saw particular interest in the loonie among Canadian corporate clients on Wednesday. The Canadian dollar ended the session at C$1.0510 to the greenback, or 95.15 U.S. cents, compared with C$1.0549, or 94.80 U.S. cents, at Tuesday's North American close. Data showing a smaller than expected Canadian trade deficit in May due to falling imports was largely ignored, traders said. "The market obviously has got two things on its mind: July 4 tomorrow and jobless data on Friday," said Steve Butler, director of foreign exchange trading at Scotiabank. The employment numbers are expected show Canada lost some 2,500 jobs in June after notching oversized gains the previous month, while the much larger U.S. economy is seen adding 165,000 jobs. Prices for Canadian government debt were mixed. The two-year bond rose 1 Canadian cent to yield 1.194 percent, while the benchmark 10-year bond slid 6 Canadian cents to yield 2.414 percent.}}
{{PARIS — Residents of Strasbourg filled a square in the French city Sunday to show respect and sympathy for the four people killed and the dozen wounded during a shooting attack near a famous Christmas market.\nAccording to local newspaper DNA, more than 1,000 people attended the memorial, which ended with a minute of applause and a rendition of France's national anthem, "La Marseillaise."\nThe hour-long ceremony took place in Kleber Square, not far from where a gunman opened fire on Tuesday evening. Strasbourg Mayor Roland Ries praised the city's resilience in the face of hardship.\nThe "extremely large crowd in the Christmas market" on Saturday "was an illustration of our commitment to these values ??on which our living together is based, which we will continue to defend against all those who want to attack it," Ries said.}}
{{Sikh community says this is first time such extremism has been mentioned in federal terror-threat assessment\nMinister Ralph Goodale speaks to media at the Vancouver Island Conference Centre during the Liberal cabinet retreat in Nanaimo, B.C., on Tuesday, August 21, 2018. (Chad Hipolito/The Canadian Press)\nCanada’s public-safety ministry will reconsider the way Sikh organizations are described in a recent report outlining terror threats in Canada, the department’s minister Ralph Goodale said Friday.\nThe Canadian Sikh community, including one of Goodale’s fellow Liberal MPs, wants him to do far more than fix a few words.\nGoodale said he is confident the security officials who wrote the 2018 report on terrorism threats facing Canada did not mean to malign entire religions when describing Sikh, Shia and Sunni extremism but he is still asking them to make changes to be more precise.\n“Words matter,” Goodale said. “We must never equate any one community or entire religions with extremism.”\nBalpreet Singh, a lawyer representing the World Sikh Organization of Canada, said Goodale has missed the point. Singh said this is the first time Sikh extremism has been mentioned in the annual terror-threat assessment but provides no evidence for doing so. He said the only incident the report mentions is the bombing of an Air India flight leaving Canada for New Delhi and Mumbai. That attack killed 329 people but it was in 1985.\n“Reevaluating the language is fine but just the fact that this section was there is very troubling given that there is absolutely no context beyond something that happened three decades ago,” said Singh.\nThe report says “some individuals in Canada continue to support Sikh (Khalistani) extremist ideologies and movements.”\nKhalistan is the name for an independent Indian state proposed by some Sikhs. Extremists demanding Sikh independence were behind the Air India bombing, but Singh said there is simply no evidence Sikh extremism exists in Canada today. He said just advocating for an independent Sikh state is no different from wanting Quebec to separate from Canada.\nHowever several Indian government leaders have pushed Canada to suppress calls here for Sikh independence, and the issue was a major rain cloud over Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s visit to India last February. That trip was one of the low points of Trudeau’s time in office so far, dogged not just by the prime minister’s decision to wear high-end Indian wedding attire at many public events but also by invitations to two receptions given to a man convicted in 1986 of attempting to assassinate an Indian cabinet minister who had been visiting Canada.\nLiberal MP Randeep Sarai, who apologized during the trip for being the one who invited attempted murderer Jaspal Atwal to the receptions, was among those demanding the federal government explain why Sikh extremism was named in the report. In a social-media post Sarai said the report looks at 12 years of terrorist plots or attacks in Canada and not a single one of them involved Sikhs. Neither was Sikh extremism mentioned in incidents affecting Canadians abroad.\nREAD MORE: Jaspal Atwal to be tried in June 2019 on charge of uttering threat\nTrudeau spent much of the India trip working to dispel accusations that Canada was a hotbed of Khalistani extremism. At the end of it he agreed to a security framework with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is Hindu, that committed to combating terrorism, including several Sikh extremist organizations.\nThe organizations named in that framework, Babbar Khalsa International and the International Sikh Youth Federation, were also named in this week’s terror-threat assessment.\nA lot of the concern raised with Trudeau in India was about Canadians financing Sikh extremist activities in India. Financing was mentioned in this year’s report.\n“Furthermore, Shia and Sikh (Khalistani) extremism also remain of concern because while their attacks in Canada have been extremely limited, some Canadians continue to support these extremist groups, including through financing,” the report said.\nSingh said he thinks the Canadian government is falling prey to foreign interference on the matter and he said unless the government can provide new evidence that Sikh extremism exists and is a problem in Canada, the government needs to remove that entire section from the report.\n“Give us some sort of proof,” he said.\nNDP MP Matthew Dube, who sites on the Commons committee on public safety and national security, said Friday the government needs to do more than scrub certain words from the report.\n“The Liberals have offered no clear explanation and provided no evidence for this addition in the first place which targeted a specific community,” he said.\nMia Rabson, The Canadian Press\nLike us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter.}}
{{Happy Birthday Sonu Nigam: The singer turns 44-year-old. Happy Birthday Sonu Nigam: The singer turns 44-year-old.\nSonu Nigam made his entry to the film industry when male singers – Vinod Rathore, Kumar Sanu and Udit Narayan, were ruling the chartbusters. For music composers, these male singers were a go-to option because they were hit making machines. But nobody had thought that soon Sonu Nigam would be added to the list, and after a point of time, leave these three hitmakers behind. Yes, we are still in love with Kumar Sanu and Udit Narayan songs but Sonu Nigam is an icon for every kid born in the nineties. As the singer celebrates his birthday today, Here’s a throwback to his few iconic songs.\nAccha Sila Diya (Bewafa Sanam 1993) -Today’s generation might not know about this song but in 90’s Sonu Nigam rose to fame with it that spoke about heart-break. While we are stuck to break-up songs like the one in Ae Dil Hai Mushkil, this song had poetry, meaning and Sonu’s voice added depth to the song. This is definitely one song you should listen to if you are a Sonu Nigam fan.\nSandeeshe Aate Hai (Border 1997): For a voice like Sonu Nigam’s, it would have been easy for the industry to typecast him for either romantic or sad song but this 1997 hit film’s number came in as a surprise for his fans and contemporaries. This song was about memories of a person about birth place, mother, beloved and it is such an emotional song especially for those who were at war or the families that were left behind. JP Dutta’s film was surely iconic but even the song has made history by being in our memories forever.\nYeh Dil Deewana ( Pardes 1997)- The year of 1997 was quite formative for Sonu Nigam to make a strong base and stand out as a singer and performer. His song Yeh Dil Deewana presented heart break like never before. Of course, as late 90’s knocked on the doors, the listeners taste in music also changed, and this song was a trend setter in the industry.\nSatrangi Re (Dil Se) – A song of wanting, obsession and the ache of separation, this song had captured three most difficult emotions with such ease, and Sonu Nigam’s voice did justice to it. This is an all time favorite song for Shah Rukh and Sonu Nigam fans.\nSuraj Hua Maddham (Kabhie Khushi Kabhie Gham 2001): This song is all hearts even now. Alka Yagnik and Sonu Nigam voices suited perfectly for the song, which also became popular for the romance and chemistry of actors Kajol and Shah Rukh Khan.\nMain Hoon Na title track (Main Hoon Na 2004): It seemed like Sonu Nigam had become voice of Shah Rukh Khan for several films. Main Hoon Na title track was just another step for Sonu to prove that it would take others quite a long time to even compete with the singer.\nDo Pal (Veer Zaara 2004): Goddess of voice and music Lata Mangeshkar sang with Sonu Nigam, of course, magic had to happen. This song, yet again picturised Shah Rukh with Preity Zinta who in turn made all the romantic people cheer out loud. The song transports you instantly to the times when you were struggling with or for love.\nDheere Jalna (Paheli 2005): The film might have flopped but the song remained one of the melodious numbers by the singer. Commercially, the music might not have been as famous as ‘Tumse Milke Dil Ka’ or ‘Sooraj Hua Madham’ but this Shah Rukh Khan’s song has a simplicity and an essence that taps on your musical side.\nMere Haath Mein (Fanaa 2006): Out and out romantic number which was written well, and of course, sung well. Sonu Nigam with Sunidhi Chauhan blended romance, the pain of separation and betrayal, beautifully with their voices.\nAbhi Mujhme Kahin (Agneepath 2011): After a long time, Sonu Nigam had put his best foot forward. With so many old singers gone out of the sight and new singers coming up every now and then, people had thought that the singer had lost hold of his place in the music industry.\nThis song was a perfect answer that shut up all the gossip mongers.\nFor all the latest Entertainment News, download Indian Express App\n© IE Online Media Services Pvt Ltd}}
{{Have your say\nPolice in Lancashire have resorted to pleading with people on Facebook and Twitter not to report traffic problems caused by last minute Christmas shoppers.\nOfficers posted on the social networking sites to say they were aware of the delays in Preston city centre on Saturday.\nThey said repeated calls to its 999 and 101 numbers were preventing people from reporting 'genuine' emergencies.\nThe post, from the Preston Police account, said: "We are aware of the congestion around Butler Street and the Fishergate Centre.\n"This is due to the time of year and unfortunately have no powers in relation to this.\n"Please don’t ring 999 or 101 to report this as it is preventing genuine emergency calls from coming in."\nIt is not clear how many calls have been received by police about the traffic problems but residents responded online with shock that people would report the delays to police.\nDrew Gale wrote: "People actually call 999 because of congestion? Wow."}}
{{Brother and sister violin duo, Kai and Lia Gronberg of Fiddlin’ Frenzy along with eight-year-old Anderson Kyte will be performing at Abbotsford’s Rotary Stadium as part of the BC Summer Games closing ceremonies.\nThree young Mission musicians will be showcasing their talents during the closing ceremonies of the BC Sumer Games in Abbotsford on July 24.\nThe trio – brother and sister violin duo, Kai and Lia Gronberg of Fiddlin’ Frenzy along with eight-year-old Anderson Kyte – will be performing at Abbotsford’s Rotary Stadium as part of the games ending celebration.\nThe trio has have rehearsed diligently in order to prepare the best show possible. Their musical talent will be enhanced by a group of Abbotsford dancers who have choreographed a routine to match their fast fiddling skills.\nCome out to support the BC athletes, several of whom are from Mission, either by cheering or volunteering.}}
{{GRAND LEDGE -- The Jackson High School football team knew its decision to kneel before the national anthem Friday at Grand Ledge would be met with a mixed response.\nOnce the dust settled on what's been an eventful 48 hours for the Vikings football program, the team stands by its decision to kneel before the anthem and then rise and lock arms during it.\n"I think it was good that we stayed together as a team," Jackson running back Micah Cretsinger said. "I think we definitely got our point across, just showing how we need more equality."\nWhile the Jackson football program felt it showed unity by demonstrating an ability to come together, some didn't share that perspective.\nDale Walters, an Army veteran who served during Vietnam and is a Veterans of Foreign Wars and American Legion member, agreed with the right to protest but questioned the setting.\n"I think it was better (to kneel before the anthem) instead of during it," Walters said. "However, I think that we need to use our right for protest in different venues."\nMoments after the Jackson team took a knee, the Grand Ledge student section chanted, "USA, USA."\n"Well, really we always do that before the national anthem," Grand Ledge senior Jake Woodward said. "But I think it's kind of disrespectful. People fight for freedom in this country, and I think we should show our respect for that."\nJackson coach Scott Farley said before the game the team's goal was to show unity while emphasizing that the intent wasn't to disrespect any service members, police officers or the American flag.\nMelissa Halmon, mother of a Jackson football player, felt the team was successful in doing just that.\n"I think that the boys should feel comfortable enough to express their opinions," Hamlon said. "Like I teach my sons, everybody doesn't have to agree with one another, but everybody has the right to their own opinion."\nJackson plays at Okemos next week, and the team has discussed whether to kneel before the anthem at its home game in two weeks. However, Oct. 13 is the Pink Viking Game for cancer awareness, so Jackson will not take a knee as a team that day.\nThere hasn't been a decision made whether it will happen again, but Cretsinger is glad it happened Friday.\n"I do think we have more team unity now, and that we're closer as brothers," Cretsinger said. "I think we found one common goal to rally around ... just like tonight (in the game). We stuck together and worked hard."\nJackson lost to Grand Ledge 35-12.}}
{{Russian president Vladimir Putin said on Saturday the Kremlin should play a leading role in Russian rap music and in youth culture, rather than trying to shut it down.\nHis comments follow a spate of concert cancellations by venue owners and local authorities across Russia and the brief arrest of a popular rap artist, Husky. The crackdown has sparked considerable discussion in recent months, especially among young people.\nMr Putin said such heavy-handed measures were often counterproductive, and suggested an alternative approach.\n“If it’s impossible to stop something, you’ve got to take charge of it,” he said during a live broadcast of a meeting of his advisory council on culture and the arts.\n“How to do this, how to take charge and guide in the necessary direction... That’s the most important issue,” he said, adding that the question would be discussed further by members of his administration and the culture ministry.\nHusky, who raps in Russian and whose songs have at times been critical of the government, said his concerts were under pressure because authorities objected to lyrics they found offensive.\nAfter his concert was cancelled in Krasnodar, in southern Russia, he tried to perform from the roof of a car instead, leading to his arrest for hooliganism.\nHis arrest and sentence to 12 days imprisonment led to a public outcry and the rapper was released early, thanks to the intervention of members of the presidential administration, the editor of state broadcaster Russia Today said on Twitter.\nMr Putin on Saturday was responding to a statement about rap concert cancellations made by music producer and member of the advisory council Igor Matvienko. Among other suggestions, Mr Matvienko proposed creating a parental advisory guidance system for concerts.\nAddressing Mr Matvienko, Mr Putin said, “You said that rap (rests on) three pillars: sex, drugs and protests. Of all of these, drugs are the most worrying,” Mr Putin said. “They are the route to a nation’s degradation.”\nMr Putin also addressed the question of how to regulate the musical genre’s use of censorious language.\nHe said that he had talked about swearing with a linguist.\n“She told me personally that it’s a part of our language. It’s just a question of how you use it,” he said.\nMr Matvienko also suggested guidelines on the use of swear words online and in the media, but Mr Putin said this was a sensitive matter as such words are part of Russians’ common culture.\nLikening swear words to body parts, Mr Putin joked: “we have all sorts of body parts, and it’s not like we put them on display all the time, whether it’s hot or cold.”}}
{{Pippa Middleton today attended a Christmas service at the church where she will next year marry her multi-millionaire fiance.\nThe Duchess of Cambridge's younger sister and fiance James Matthews joined Kate and William, her parents Michael and Carole Middleton, her brother James and niece and nephew, Prince George and Princess Charlotte.\nThey attended the service at St Mark’s Church in Englefield, near the Middleton's £4.7million mansion in Berkshire.\nPippa Middleton and her fiance James Matthews pictured leaving St Mark’s Church in Englefield\nKate's sister wore a grey marl checked coat to the service, completing the look with brown leather gloves and a floral print scarf\nAhead of Pippa's impending nuptials, the Cambridges are spending Christmas with Kate's family at the Middleton home near Bucklebury instead of joining other royals at the Queen's Sandringham estate in Norfolk.\nFriends said the Middleton family are pulling out all the stops to mark the occasion as it will be Pippa’s last Christmas as a single woman.\nShe will marry financier James Matthews on May 20 and the couple hope to start their own family soon afterwards.\nPrince George, Pippa's nephew, is tipped to be a page boy and her niece Princess Charlotte, who will have just turned two, a flower girl.\nThe Duchess of Cambridge's little sister shot to public attention when she wore a bottom-hugging bridesmaid's dress at the royal wedding in 2011.\nBut she is said to have wanted a smaller, more intimate 'family' wedding when she weds wealthy hedge fund trader James Matthews next year.\nThe couple are believed to be setting a marquee up in the garden of Michael and Carole Middleton's mansion with upmarket Portaloos brought in for the occasion.\nPippa Middleton warmly greeted the Reverend - as she prepares for her own wedding at the same church next year\nThe Duchess of Cambridge's younger sister is set to marry James Matthews (pictured) at the church on the 20th of May next year\nPippa Middleton, James Matthews and Michael Middleton after the Christmas service\nTrendy designer Giles Deacon is rumoured to be making Pippa's dress after he was spotted carrying garment bags into the £17 million house with his and hers bathrooms she and James share in London.\nChelsea florist Lavender Green is arranging the flowers – likely to include spring blooms like daffodils.\nKate’s sister Pippa has previously written about ‘magical’ family Christmases and how their father dons fancy dress costumes including, once, that of an inflatable sumo wrestler.\nKate, 34, is very close to her family and has always made clear that they will play a significant role both in her life and those of her children.\nWilliam and Kate, Prince George and Princess Charlotte and Kate's brother and sister, Pippa and James with Carol and Michael Middleton\nThis will be the second time Kate and William have joined the Middletons for Christmas Day since they married in 2011 and the first since their children were born.\nThe last time the couple stayed away from the traditional royal gathering was in December 2012, shortly after Kate was discharged from hospital having been treated for severe morning sickness when she was pregnant with George.\nIn 2014, William and Kate were believed to have lunched with the Middletons before attending the Christmas Day church service with the royals.}}
{{Fire at Indianapolis school prompts evacuation; no injuries\nINDIANAPOLIS (AP) — Authorities say a fire on the roof of an Indianapolis elementary school prompted the evacuation of hundreds of students.\nNo one was injured in the Friday morning fire at Amy Beverland Elementary School. Authorities say two teachers were checked out at the scene for possible smoke inhalation, but they weren't taken to a hospital.\nThe Indianapolis Fire Department says the fire stemmed from a construction torch and drywall. Workers were using a torch to cut bolts in the building's rafters.\nThe Lawrence Township district's school is in the midst of a renovation and expansion project.\nClasses were canceled for the day Friday and students were bussed to another school so they could be picked up.}}
{{NORFOLK, Va. – Four Norfolk Public Schools will receive new musical instruments, thanks to the Mr. Holland’s Opus Foundation and the Goode Family.\nMr. Holland’s Opus Foundation helps underserved schools with minimal budgets by donating new instruments and replacing some that are more than 30 years old.\n“We believe in supporting schools that recognize the importance of music education for their students,” said Felice Mancini, President & CEO of The Mr. Holland’s Opus Foundation. “Through this grant of instruments, they can give this opportunity to even more students who want to play and learn music. The benefits are tremendous.”\nIngleside Elementary School, Jacox Elementary School, Lake Taylor Middle School and Ruffner Academy Middle school submitted applications for support in the fall of 2017.\n“This grant will allow the schools in receipt of new instruments to expand their enrollments, support current students in playing a high quality instrument, and create more opportunities for our children to continue in music throughout their K-12 experience,” said Danielle Roby, Senior Coordinator of Music Education for NPS. “This support sends an important message about the quality of music instruction in the district and the commitment to providing an outstanding music education for all students. We are deeply humbled by the generous contributions of The Goode Family, who are local and so passionate about supporting the arts in our community.”\nIngleside Elementary School will receive 23 instruments, with a retail value of $17,562. Lake Taylor Middle School will receive 12 instruments with a retail value of $15,738. Ruffner Academy Middle School will receive 27 instruments, a retail value of $27,000. Jacox Elementary School will receive 16 string instruments, two instrument storage racks and a dozen new violin bows–a retail value of $16,422.}}
{{Image caption About 20 guests gathered in an unremarkable building in Belfast city centre\nGlancing into the room, you are greeted with festive cheer. But looks can be deceiving.\nFor those enjoying Christmas lunch, these two hours are temporary respite from an often grim and unforgiving reality - homelessness.\nAbout 20 guests gathered in an unremarkable building in Belfast city centre.\nPupils from St Mary's Christian Brothers' Grammar School in west Belfast served turkey, sausages, potatoes and vegetables to an orderly queue.\nThe youngsters were there to learn more about social deprivation.\nThe lunch forms part of a wider school programme.\nRaymond Herron is the teacher overseeing the event.\nImage caption The boys shared a meal with the adults as part of the project\n"The boys are very aware of social injustices", he told BBC News NI.\n"It gives them an opportunity to be actively involved and give a first-hand contribution to the homeless society in Belfast - hands on, serving them a meal, sitting with them and reminding them that they are still somebody."\nThirteen-year-old Eoghan is one of the pupils serving meals at the gathering.\n"They're just normal people who've had a really unlucky roll of the dice," he said.\nImage caption One of the men who came along to the event explained what life was like in hostels in Belfast\n"They're really friendly and kind and it's different to hear some of their stories about where they come from."\nOne of the people Eoghan served lunch to is Craig: a former rugby-playing grammar schoolboy whose adult life spiralled into addiction, crime and mental illness.\nHe has been homeless for the past nine years.\nHe admits to being an alcoholic, but said he does not touch drugs.\nCraig said he has found used syringes lying in communal showers in some hostels and blood smeared on the walls next to signs warning about diseases like hepatitis.\nHe is a good example of a homeless person in Belfast - rarely what you would expect.\nWe shake and hands and say goodbye. Christmas lunch is over and reality has returned for those about to head back into the cold.\nIt has been a sobering lesson for the pupils, but among the most important they will attend all year.}}
{{Get daily updates directly to your inbox Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nFresh strikes have been announced by Virgin Atlantic pilots involved in a dispute over union recognition.\nMembers of the Professional Pilots Union (PPU), who are already striking over the Christmas and new year period, will also stop work for several days in the first few months of the new year.\nVirgin is seeking an injunction to declare the strikes illegal, with a court hearing set for December 20, two days before the first strike.\nThe PPU says it represents over a third of the 965 Virgin Atlantic pilot workforce.\n(Image: Gareth Fuller/PA Wire)\nSpokesman Steve Johnson, said: "There is an alternative available to the company to disrupting business and holiday travel plans.\n"Virgin Atlantic management could provide a tangible agreement to recognise this union - that's all they need to do.\n"They would rather go to court than do the right thing - it doesn't make sense, especially when they claim publicly that they wish to 'recognise us in principle'.\n"But it leaves us with no choice but step up our strike action."\nA spokesman for Virgin Atlantic said: "We can confirm that we are challenging the threatened PPU strike action by seeking an injunction. We have taken this action reluctantly.\n"Our priority has to be ensuring our customers can complete their travel plans this Christmas. We have been in regular talks with Acas since late November to try and find a resolution to this dispute, and we encourage the PPU to engage in discussion rather than disruption.\n"We are finalising plans seeking to ensure all our customers can continue their journeys this Christmas regardless of the industrial action - this is our absolute priority.\n"We encourage anyone due to travel with us this week to check details of their flight at www.virginatlantic.com and ensure their contact details are added to their booking."}}
{{Anchor Christmas Ale —Anchor Brewing Company\nIt seems almost unfathomable that any single craft beer could be 43 years old.\nBefore Jim Koch started brewing in his kitchen, before Harpoon dusted off its slice of the Boston waterfront, San Francisco’s Anchor Brewing Co. was challenging the way beer was made and sold. And so in 1975, nearly a decade before the big East Coast outfits took up shop, Anchor released the first holiday beer since the end of Prohibition.\nAnchor Christmas Ale has become legendary, a marker to count the years by as the formula in the bottle, and the tree on the label, changes. It’s a beer current brewmaster Scott Ungermann was aware of when he first toured the brewery as a college student.\nAdvertisement\n“My dad used to buy it going back to the ’70s,’’ says Ungermann. “I actually kept one of the bottles for my bottle collection. It’s one of the only parts of my collection that’s survived.’’\nAnchor starts working on Christmas Ale in the spring, discussing tweaks to the recipe and choosing the tree, which for 2017 is a Santa Lucia Fir, a rare species from the Santa Lucia mountain range along California’s central coast. Bay Area artist James Stitt has been drawing the labels since 1975.\nFor the second year in a row, Anchor has decided to up the ante on Christmas Ale, raising the ABV from 6.5 percent to 6.7 percent (it was 5.5 two years ago). Also different this year is an increased use of specialty malts, as well as “a much more direct spice note,’’ according to Ungermann. While the recipe changes — and is kept a secret — the spirit of the drink is constant.\n“I remember when I first started homebrewing, I was gonna brew a batch in the fall and give it to everybody for Christmas,’’ says Ungermann. “Back when Anchor started this it was fun that it had a secret recipe, and it’s always been fun. We give some vague hints at what we do but we like to keep it secret.’’\nAdvertisement\nThe 2017 version of Anchor Christmas has notes of dark fruits in the nose and tastes like creamy bittersweet chocolate and coffee (but not in a stout-y way). The spices are present as little tingles in the back of the throat rather than some kind of chai assault.\nAs for how Anchor is paying homage to the history of the beer, Ungermann says he recently assigned one of his brewers to scour the archives for old recipes.\n“It would be really fun to brew the ’86 or the ’94,’’ says Ungermann.}}
{{Corey Lewandowski dismissed the story of a 10-year-old girl with Down syndrome who was reportedly separated from her mother after crossing the border illegally.\nWhile appearing Tuesday on Fox News, former senior Democratic National Committee adviser Zac Petkanas shared an anecdote he had read about “a 10-year-old girl with Down syndrome” who had been “taken from her mother and put in a cage.”\n“Womp womp,” the former Trump campaign manager responded.\nOn Tuesday, Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray shared the 10-year-old girl’s story, calling it “particularly painful.” Videgaray said the girl and her brother were sent to a US facility in McAllen, Texas, while her mother went to one an hour away in Brownsville.\nyou sitting down? here’s Corey Lewandowski mockingly saying “womp womp” to the story of a 10-year-old girl with Down Syndrome who was separated from her mother at the border. pic.twitter.com/6lQZ7abkY4 — J.D. Durkin (@jiveDurkey) June 20, 2018\n“The Mexican government in no way promotes illegal migration,” Videgaray told reporters at a Mexico City news conference. “However, according to our constitutional principles and our convictions, we cannot be indifferent before an act that clearly represents a violation of human rights and that puts into a vulnerable position minors, children, including those with disabilities.”\nThe Trump administration has faced intense backlash over a policy that has resulted in undocumented children being separated from their families.\nCNN previously reported that Department of Homeland Security officials said last week that the policy has caused the separation of at least 2,000 children from their parents.}}
{{By Meg Olson\nWith new dates and a new location, organizers of the Point Roberts Arts and Music Festival expect to deliver a more polished event for the festival’s 21st year.\n“Partnering with the marina really lets us upgrade the event,” said vendor coordinator Gail Pueyo.\nThe two days of music, art and dance will take place in the grassy area adjacent to the marina building on September 3 and 4 from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.\nWith two stages set up, “It will be an ongoing continuous live entertainment,” Pueyo said, rather than the audience needing to wait between acts. Performers offer a wide range of styles, from classical\nto alternative.\nStarting off with the Kelley ukulele group, Saturday’s highlights include Craig Jacks and the Jackalopes alternative country, the Los Gitanos flamenco dance troupe and jazz/pop standards with former Vancouver Symphony trumpeter Ray Kirkham and friends. The Point Roberts Winds will start the lineup on Sunday, followed by Nashville recording artist Delaney Rose, the Eire Born Irish Dancers, Las Vegas-acclaimed Jeffrey Elvis and eclectic world/folk songwriter Bocephus King.\nA new addition this year will be the festival’s talent search, which will run in slots on both days. Contestants can sign up at stars@pointrobertsmarina.com, but can also join in during the festival.\n“We’d like you to contact us to help us plan better but the mic will be open too,” said entertainment coordinator Craig Jacks. “We always get a lot of people who come up and want to get on stage and this is an opportunity for them. We think this could make it into a more open and fun-filled family event.”\nThe contest finale and awards will be at 5:30 p.m. on Sunday, followed by a grand finale featuring festival headliners.\nA first in the festival’s history, the marina and the Compass Rose Restaurant will host a beer garden as well as a barbecue. Other food vendors will offer ice cream, Hawaiian shaved ice and kettle corn. Auntie Pam’s Country Store will join visiting vendors, including those selling native art, collectibles and gemstone jewelry.\n“We will also have fun stuff for the kids,” Pueyo said. Local organizations, including Point Roberts Emergency Preparedness and the Point Roberts fire department, will also participate.\nJacks and Pueyo said the festival this year relied only on local sponsorship, after longtime sponsor Westshore Terminals withdrew its support. “The local businesses really stepped up to the plate,” Jacks said. Top sponsors were Nordic Construction, Point Roberts Marina, TSB Shipping, Valero, Nielson’s Building Center and the Cottages at Seabright Farms.}}
{{The Women’s Aid 24-hour helpline will run on Christmas Day for the second year in a row with the anti-domestic violence charity expecting an increase in calls to the organisation after the Christmas period.\nWomen’s Aid said it doesn’t expect a spike in calls on Christmas Day but that it is often after the festive period that it receives more calls from women seeking help. The charity is launching its Christmas appeal for donations on Monday.\nMargaret Martin, director of Women’s Aid said “usually we would see a bit of an uplift when the kids go back to school”.\n“Particularly women with small children, they need a window of opportunity to make the call. . .If they’re still living with the partner that can be very difficult as he’s going to be around more [over Christmas],” she told The Irish Times.\n“We would get a number of calls on a regular basis where a woman is talking and suddenly, mid-sentence the line goes or she might just say I can hear a key in the door. That happens all-year round.”\nMs Martin said for women who have left abusive relationships, Christmas can be used by their former partners to control and abuse them. She said the frequency of violence towards women can be “much higher” over Christmas as people are consuming more alcohol.\n“If you have children and there isn’t much contact, you would have a lot of fathers who would see their children at Christmas all of a sudden. That can be very dangerous,” she said.\n“For example there could be women who have to provide access on Christmas Day, if the risk was very high what we would be recommending is that they do that handover in a Garda station.\n“You don’t want to be in a Garda station on Christmas Day and women are working as hard as possible to normalise things to try and make their children’s Christmas as happy and as stress-free as possible.”\nMs Martin said some of the tactics used by abusive partners include controlling and restricting a woman’s movement, which makes it difficult to engage with their services.\n“Some of the women say they wouldn’t be able to be away from the home for very long. Most women, we would see them in our outreach services, for some women we would see them quite near to where they live,” she added.\n“It all depends on the level of risk, the level of control that’s there and sometimes they will have to grit their teeth and make it through until a time when he’s back in work and they feel safe enough to make a call.”\nWomen’s Aid said there were over 15,000 disclosures of domestic violence through its services and helpline in 2017.\nDuring over 21,000 contacts with Women’s Aid direct services last year, women disclosed 10,281 incidents of emotional abuse, 3,502 incidents of physical abuse and 1,442 incidents of financial abuse.\nIn the same year, 607 incidents of sexual abuse were disclosed, including 323 rapes by current or former partners. The charity said its helpline responds to an average of 50 calls per day.\nThe Women’s Aid 24 hour national freephone helpline can be contacted on 1800 341 900; https://www.womensaid.ie/}}
{{St Rose of Lima School welcomed roughly 450 visitors at the school on May 11 for its Grandparents and Special Persons Day.\nThe day began with a Mass. Later, visitors were treated to food and student performances in the school’s Gathering Hall and visited classrooms, where they completed activities with their students.\nOne of the performances for the day was students singing “Tomorrow” from the school’s musical production of Annie, Jr, which was staged at Edmond Town Hall that evening.}}
{{Best Places To Take Your Holiday Photos In MiamiThe holidays are upon us once again. That means Christmas cards need to be mailed out and family photos need to be taken. While there are thousands of places in South Florida that can provide a great backdrop for a family, finding that one perfect spot can be time consuming. Whether that perfect photo includes a beach, a fountain, a garden, or an archway, South Florida can provide the perfect spot for an unforgettable family holiday photo.}}
{{Lenovo has back-to-school deals for students looking to get their first laptop or upgrade to something a little beefier or more premium. Lenovo’s laptop discounts range from a few dollars saved to a few hundred dollars saved.\nHere we’ll look at some of the best back-to-school savings you can get on a new Lenovo laptop whether you’re on a budget or have a little cash to splurge with.\nLenovo’s premium ThinkPad X1 Carbon has a massive discount, bringing the price down by $417 to a total of $1,251. The deal is on a mid-specced model that comes with a 7th Gen Intel Core i5-7300U processor, 8GB of RAM, a FullHD display, and a blazing fast Intel 256GB PCIe-NVMe drive. It also includes two Thunderbolt 3 ports for high speed data transfer from accessories or external storage.\nThis laptop is poised as a highly portable machine, with a chassis that’s just 0.6-inches thick. Top that off with the ThinkPad brand’s trademark durability, and you’ve got a machine that’s ready for the tumultuous life of a student.\nGet the $417 off deal\nIf you want a computer that’s ready for everything school has to throw at it during the day and fun and games when class is over, the IdeaPad Y700 is a solid fit. The model on sale is decked out with a quad-core I7-6700HQ processor, an UltraHD touchscreen display, 16GB of DDR4 RAM, both a 256GB PCIe SSD and 1TB hard drive and a dedicated Nvidia GTX 960m graphics processor.\nThis computer is ready for gaming, video and photo editing, and won’t break a sweat while taking notes in class and writing a research paper with a couple dozen tabs open in a browser. It may sacrifice portability, weighing in at close to six pounds, but the performance per dollar is high in this machine, so students looking to get the most work and play for their money need look no further.\nIf it’s a little too expensive, a scaled back version with half the RAM and a FullHD display is $450 off for $749 .\nFor students that need a simple laptop that can meet their daily needs and keep up with their schoolwork, the IdeaPad 510s is a good fit. And after $220 in savings, it comes at a good price, too.\nThe model on sale comes with an Intel Core i5-6200U paired with 8GB of DDR4 RAM that should easily handle basic workloads. It also has a FullHD IPS screen suitable for streaming shows and movies after classes and homework are finished for the day.\nMore Lenovo laptop deals}}
{{At least 60 migrants died in the Mediterranean sea when their rubber dinghy sank last week, according to survivor testimonies gathered by a rights group in Sicily.\nThe Diciotti, an Italian coastguard ship carrying more than 500 migrants, docked Tuesday night at the Sicilian port of Pozzallo.\nAmong those on board were around 40 survivors of an accident last Tuesday which saw a US Navy boat come to the aid of drowning migrants after their dinghy sank off the coast of Libya.\nAt the time the US Navy reported seeing around 12 bodies in the water but were unable to locate them after the rescue.\nThe survivors interviewed by volunteers from the human rights association Medu in Sicily said that their dinghy had been carrying 117 people, which would put the death toll at over 70.\nThe NGO Doctors Without Borders (MSF) put the toll slightly lower at 60 dead also on the basis of accounts from survivors, who reported 100 people aboard the vessel.\n“I have never seen such frightened and traumatised eyes after a landing,” said Teo di Piazza, coordinator of MSF psychologists.\n“The people had no strength left.”\nThe most recent migrant arrival in Sicily comes as key EU leaders prepare to hold crisis talks on migration in Brussels on Sunday.\nThe talks follow last week’s row over the fate of more than 600 migrants on the Aquarius rescue ship, who Italy turned away, thrusting the migrant question back to the top of the EU agenda.\nAFP}}
{{Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption 'I'll be signing something in a little while'\nUS President Donald Trump has promised action to "keep families together" amid fury over separations of undocumented child migrants from adults.\n"I'll be signing something in a little while that's going to do that," he told reporters at the White House.\nThe Department of Homeland Security has reportedly drafted an executive order to stop the policy, though its wording and scope is unclear.\nMr Trump earlier urged lawmakers to pass a bill ending family separations.\nThe Republican president also wants immigration laws to be toughened under any such legislation.\nMedia playback is unsupported on your device Media caption US youth shelter worker quit after being ordered to separate siblings\nMr Trump added that he was postponing the bipartisan congressional picnic scheduled for Thursday "because it didn't feel right to me".\nEarlier, Republican congressional leader Paul Ryan said the House of Representatives will vote on Thursday "on legislation to keep families together".\n"We do not want children taken away from their parents," he said at a news conference on Capitol Hill. "We can enforce our immigration laws without breaking families apart."\nHe did not immediately provide details of the bill, but said that it resolves the issue of so-called Dreamers, undocumented adult migrants who entered the US as children, "in a very elegant way".\nMedia playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The US teens training in border patrol\nTrump backs down\nAnalysis by Anthony Zurcher, BBC News, Washington\nFor days administration officials have insisted they were simply following the law as written and their "zero tolerance" policy for illegal border crossings meant they "have to take the children away", in the president's words.\nCritics have countered that Mr Trump unilaterally created the situation that produced the heart-rending accounts of children separated from their parents, and he could unilaterally fix it.\nBy taking executive action, the president is effectively acknowledging they were correct.\nNow the fight will probably move to the courts, with legal challenges to the administration's decision to hold detained families together while their immigration status is adjudicated.\nThat is more politically hospitable ground for Republicans, who already face challenging mid-term congressional elections.\nThis move should also deal a final blow to hopes for any kind of comprehensive immigration reform from Congress this year.\nThe odds always seemed long, even with this recent burst of urgency, but Republicans couldn't agree amongst themselves, let along reach the consensus with Democrats needed for passage in the Senate.\nInstead, the future of immigration reform will hinge on the results of November's elections and which party controls Congress when the dust settles.\nRead more of Anthony Zurcher's analysis\nWhy the uproar?\nIn April, the US attorney general announced a "zero-tolerance" policy to criminally charge and jail undocumented border crossers.\nAs children cannot legally be jailed with their parents, they are kept in separate facilities.\nUS immigration officials say 2,342 children were separated from 2,206 parents between 5 May and 9 June.\nMedia playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The sound of migrant children separated from parents\nPictures of dozens of children sleeping in fenced enclosures and audio of crying children emerged in recent days, provoking the widespread criticism.\nBabies and toddlers have been sent to three "tender age" shelters maintained by the Department of Health and Human Services, the Associated Press news agency reports.\nUnder previous US administrations, immigrants caught crossing the border for the first time tended to be issued with court summonses and released.\nWhat has international reaction been?\nThere has been global outrage at the US policy of separating migrant families at its border with Mexico.\nThe UK and Canadian prime ministers, Theresa May and Justin Trudeau, both called it "wrong".\nPope Francis said he supported US Catholic bishops who called it "immoral".\nFrench far-right leader Marine Le Pen, who in the past has praised Mr Trump's policy of curbing immigration, told French TV that she disagreed with splitting children from parents.\nOn Tuesday Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray Caso said the practice was "cruel and inhuman".\nMedia playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Theresa May: US child detention "disturbing" and "wrong"\nMore on child migrants crisis}}
{{House Speaker Paul Ryan says that the House will aim to pass legislation that will "take action to keep families together" while also enforcing existing immigration laws amid growing pressure over the administration's "zero tolerance" policy. Under the bill, Ryan says, "families will remain together under DHS custody throughout the length of their legal proceedings."\n"We do not want children taken away from their parents. We can enforce our immigration laws without breaking families apart. The administration says it wants Congress to act and we are. Tomorrow, the House will vote on legislation to keep families together," he told reporters Wednesday.\nCBS News\nRyan said the federal government should not be in the position of having to choose between "enforcing our laws, keeping our borders and keeping families together."\nMr. Trump specifically asked members to support the compromise bill when he met with Republican House members Tuesday. "He asked us to pass this legislation which stops this policy for good," Ryan said.\nFurther, Ryan added, the legislation "solves DACA in a very elegant way" and will help finance DHS facilities for families at the border "to make sure that they're going to be taken care of."\nAsked by CBS News' Nancy Cordes if Republicans were using detained children at the border as leverage to pass legislation, Ryan called the assertion "ridiculous."\n"We don't think people should be separated at the border, but we should also not make the government have to choose between whether to support he law, secure the border and keep in tact, they ought to do all those things, that's why were having a vote on this tomorrow," he said.}}
{{Canadian lugers Tristan Walker and Justin Snith collected their fourth World Cup medal with a bronze in sprint doubles on Sunday for their sixth top-five finish at Lake Placid, N.Y., in the past three years.\nIt followed their fifth-place performance in Saturday's doubles event when the 27-year-olds clocked a time of one minute 28.358 seconds.\nWalker and Snith won Olympic relay silver in February with singles sliders Alex Gough and Sam Edney in Pyeongchang, South Korea.\nGerman women sweep podium\nDajana Eitberger was fastest in both heats to lead a German sweep of the medals in a women's World Cup luge race at Mount Van Hoevenberg on Sunday.\nDajana Eitberger was fastest in both heats Sunday to lead a German sweep of the medals in a women's World Cup luge race at Lake Placid, N.Y., for the first time since 2007. (Hans Pennink/Associated Press)\nIt was the first German sweep of the medals in a full women's race at Lake Placid, N.Y., since 2007. Natalie Geisenberger was second and Julia Taubitz was third at Mount Van Hoevenberg, with that trio holding off three USA Luge sliders for the medal spots.\nEmily Sweeney was fourth for the U.S., Summer Britcher was fifth and Brittney Arndt was sixth. Sweeney missed a medal by only 0.014 seconds.\nCalgary's Kim McRae, coming off a third-place showing in her World Cup season debut a week ago, was seventh in a two-run time of one minute 28.115 seconds down the twisty and challenging 16-corner track in the Adirondack Mountains.\nThe 26-year-old finished third on the Lake Placid track last year.\nGearing up for world championships\n"It is fun and different than most tracks around the world, but I find once you get on line, then it becomes easier," McRae told Luge Canada. "I've been pretty tired. It is hard to switch the brain on and off from school and racing in the middle of exams."\nMcRae's next race will be at the 2019 world championships Jan. 25-27 in Winterberg, Germany.\nMeanwhile, two Calgary-based teenagers, Brooke Apshkrum and Carolyn Maxwell, also competed and placed 22nd and 23rd, respectively.\nSprint races in men's, women's and doubles were scheduled for later Sunday.}}
{{There aren’t enough school bus drivers for many districts in our area.\nThe shortage could mean some kids will have to go to school earlier and get home later. If no new drivers are hired, they could have double routes.\nSpencer Pace has driven kids in Marshall County home for 35 years. He calls a good day “when all the kids behave and listen to me.” His job comes with a pension and health benefits, but it’s only part-time. It’s why he has another job. There are many opportunities to make more money, though, according to district Transportation Director Bill Thorpe. Athletic events and field trips would pay drivers extra.\nIn Marshall County, there are 52 full-time bus routes and drivers. The problem is: because buses are used for athletic events and field trips, many times they come up short. "We struggle every day to try to fill them. Mechanics have to stop mechanic-ing some days and get on the bus," Thorpe said. "As a matter of fact, we have one running a pre-school route and one running a regular tour this afternoon."\nThorpe said he thinks the split shift bus drivers work — picking kids up in the morning and dropping them off in the afternoon — is one reason fewer people are considering the job. He also thinks incidents like the Chattanooga school bus crash in November that killed six children have increased liability concerns.\nRight now, Thorpe said his district is training seven people to become full-time school bus drivers.\nHere’s the information I’ve gotten so far about other districts in our area:\n- Fulton Independent Schools in Kentucky has three full-time drivers divided between preschool and extracurricular activities. One of the district's drivers is actually the principal.\n- Mayfield Independent in Kentucky is short two full time drivers and substitute\n- Weakley County, Tennessee, is short about five drivers, but the district says it arranges the schedule and functions well.\n- Massac County, Illinois, doesn’t report a shortage, but says this has been a problem in years past.}}
{{Police are appealing for assistance from the public in finding Ariana\nFears are held due to her age and the fact she has a medical condition\nShe finished class for the day but failed to get on her\nFears are held for a nine-year-old who vanished near her school after finishing classes for the day.\nPolice are appealing for assistance from the public to find Ariana Lyons, who went missing from near her school in Sanctuary Point in the Shoalhaven region of NSW.\nPolice launched a search for Ariana, who has a medical condition, after she failed to return home on her school bus. .\nFears are held for Ariana Lyons, who went missing from her school in Sanctuary Point\nAriana is described as being of Caucasian appearance, about 130cm tall, with a slim build and short bobbed red hair.\nAt the time she was wearing her school uniform of green shorts with white and red and green polo shirt. She was also carrying her school bag.\nGrave concerns are held for Ariana's well-being due to her young age and the fact she has a medical condition.\nAnyone who may have seen Ariana or has information about her whereabouts is urged to call Triple Zero (000) immediately.}}
{{Isle of Wight Conservative MP, Bob Seely, was joined by Isle of Wight councillors and Hampshire education officers at a meeting in Westminster today (Tuesday) to discuss the future of secondary education provision in Sandown.\nThe meeting follows the launch of a consultation by Academies Enterprise Trust (AET) who plan to merge Sandown Bay Academy with its other school on the Island, Ryde Academy.\nHigh level meeting\nThe delegation met with Lord John Nash, the Schools Minister, at the Department for Education along with Sir David Carter, the National Schools Commissioner and Dominic Herrington, the School’s Regional Commissioner for South London and the South East.\nFollowing the meeting, Bob said,\n“We made a strong case that Sandown needs its own secondary school and explained the plans for an all through 4-16 school led by The Bay CE Primary School. “The Minister listened carefully to what we had to say, asked some challenging questions, and made it clear that he is keeping all options open until the results of the public consultation are known. I want to thank Cllr Chris Whitehouse and Mr Brian Pope for their excellent work.”\nOverwhelming support for provision in Sandown\nAlso attending the meeting was Cabinet member for Children’s Services, Cllr Paul Brading, who said,\n“We were able to assure the Minister that 98% of those who have responded to our consultation so far have backed the need for Sandown to have its own secondary school, and that there is widespread dissatisfaction with the way AET have been running the Sandown Bay Academy. “What we need, though, is more parents, students and members of the local community to respond to the consultation so we can demonstrate to the Minister the strength of feeling on this issue.”\nCreating “intolerable journey times”\nIf the secondary school in Sandown is closed in September 2018 as planned, it would mean students from the town would have to travel six miles to attend school in Ryde, or nine miles to schools in Newport.\nBob Seely finished by saying,\n“We left the Minister and his colleagues in no doubt that ending secondary provision in Sandown would create intolerable journey times for pupils to attend other schools, would incur costs of £1 million every year in bussing the children around the Island, and would jeopardise educational outcomes across the Island with the disruption it would cause. “We will continue to make our case on behalf of the Sandown community.”\nThe Isle of Wight council has also launched a consultation on the future provision of education in Sandown which ends on 24th July.}}
{{Solana Ranch Elementary School announced recently that it has been named as a Leader in Me Lighthouse School by Franklin Covey Co. This recognition comes because the school has achieved outstanding results in school and student outcomes by implementing The Leader in Me process with fidelity.\nSean Covey, Education Practice Leader, Franklin Covey, said, “We are thrilled to recognize Solana Ranch Elementary as a Leader in Me Lighthouse School. Schools who achieve the Lighthouse Milestone are great examples of a strong leadership model, process, and of what it means to be a Leader in Me school. Solana Ranch has experienced transformational results by implementing the principles and practices related to The Leader in Me. We are so pleased to celebrate the success they are experiencing.”\nJerry Jones, principal of Solana Ranch Elementary said, “We are honored to become a Leader in Me Lighthouse School. We have seen such amazing growth in our students who literally lead everything we do at our school. From Friday morning leadership assemblies, school tours, our student news broadcast (Hawk News Network), school-wide community service projects, morning announcements, speaking at board meetings and Back to School Night, training parents in the 7 Habits, student-led conferences, fourth grade students who tutor second grade students in reading, project-based learning assignments that involve problem-solving and collaboration with integrated lessons on leadership, school, grade, class and individual mission statements written for every individual and team at the school, Leadership Notebooks where students track their goals and celebrations, to applied leadership positions within the classrooms; every student at Solana Ranch has opportunities for leadership and see themselves as a leader. This process has had a significant impact on our students and our school culture.”\nThe Leader in Me is a whole-school transformation model — developed in partnership with educators — that empowers students with the leadership and life skills they need to thrive in the 21st century. It is based on principles and practices of personal, interpersonal and organizational effectiveness. Visit www.theleaderinme.org.\n— Submitted press release}}
{{Which bike path are Ottawa cyclists urging the city to keep free of snow during the winter?\nWho gave a downtown Ottawa church three heavy carillon bells as an early Christmas gift?\nAnd why has OC Transpo been fined $25,000 by the Canadian Transportation Authority?\nThose are just a few of the questions designed to vex you in this week's news quiz.}}
{{The leading cause of teen deaths, car crashes.\nNow an effort to prevent more tragedy on the road.\nFord Driving Skills for Life and the Michigan Office of Highway Safety Planning awarded a $1,000 grant to 50 schools across the state.\nIt's all for students to create their own traffic safety campaigns.\nMore than five Northern Michigan schools will now be supporting Strive for a Safer Drive initiative.\nNine and Ten's Megan Woods has more details on what kind of difference the grant will make in one Leelanau County community.\n“I think people maybe sometimes forget how stressful it is for a young driver to be out there in traffic.”\nLeelanau County Sheriff Mike Borkovich is no stranger to teen car crashes.\n“As we go from accident to accident it's stressful, it's cumulative, and its hard on the deputies, troopers officers whoever is involved.”\nStudents at Glen Lake Community School are also tired of seeing teen driving tragedies, it's what sparked their effort to fight distracted driving and apply for a grant.\nSophomore Chloe Nicholas says, “It's important for us because we've just noticed that it's unsafe for us on our school campus and that people should be taking it more seriously with distracted driving or speeding.”\nWhile they may have plastered posters all over the school, their $1,000 grant allowed them to be creative.\nNicholas says, “So with the grant money so far we've purchased these bracelets that were passed out around our school and we have hats for people who complete a survey and then that shows you were taking the test and there are certificates that are going to be hung around the school for anyone that completes that survey.”\nA campaign they hope will go beyond the average teenage driver.\nNicholas says, “The posters around our school definitely, middle schoolers and younger and even older high schoolers that can't drive yet, I know they're taking this home.”\nSheriff Borkovich says, “We're just proud of the school for taking the initiative to get involved. If we can reach out to some of the kids and some of the parents who are setting bad examples for the kids by texting in the car I think we’ll save lives in the future and I think it's well worth the effort.”\nThe campaign ends in March, but before then schools will send in a video of their campaign activities. The top five will win a cash prize of $500 to $1,500.\nClick here for a full list of participating schools.}}
{{US President Donald Trump speaks during his meeting with Spain's King Felipe VI at the White House in Washington, DC, on June 19, 2018. EPA-EFE FILE/Zipi\nPresident Donald Trump said Wednesday that he would take action to end the policy of separating migrant families entering the United States illegally.}}
{{The 43nd annual Bethlehem UMC Fish Fry in the Grassland community north of Franklin ended up serving more than 1,800 pounds of catfish to over 3,400 guests with the proceeds helping support church missions.\nThe money earned is already being put to work just a week later.\nOn Sunday, July 30 beginning at exactly 9:30 a.m., church members will gather for a huge assembly line preparing the backpacks as well as tons of additional school supplies for area school kids.\nFirst launched in the 1990s, the project honors the memory of church member Kathy Harris passionate that no area school child first day should begin without their own special backpack filled with fresh school supplies. Bethlehem UMC coordinates with the Williamson County system and the Franklin Special Schools District to identify children ages kindergarten through high school who need this extra assistance.\nBethlehem UMC Pastor Ryan Bennett said Bethlehem is known as the fish fry church but also known for serving its community here and abroad.\n“There is nothing more thrilling than preparing to serve up fun, fellowship and catfish at the 43nd Bethlehem UMC Fish Fry, while knowing one week later, we would then be taking part of the proceeds to stuff brand new backpacks with schools supplies for kids who don’t have them,” Bennett said.\nBethlehem United Methodist Church is at 2419 Bethlehem Loop Road (37069). For more information, contact the church at (615) 794-6721 or www.bethlehemumc.com.}}
{{A headteacher is delighted students have picked up some of his school’s best ever GCSE results.\nThere was plenty of celebrations as pupils picked up their exam results at St Wilfrid’s RC College in South Shields, today.\nSt Wilfrid's Roman Catholic College GCSE results Jenny Clark\nThere was a marked improvement with 75% of students achieving five A* to C grades including English and Maths when compared to last year’s 68%\nPlus 96% of pupils gained at least one of the highly converted A*/A grades.\nBrendan Tapping, the school’s executive headteacher, said: “I am absolutely thrilled with this year’s GCESE results. They are even better than last year’s outstanding results.\n“The achievements across the board, particularly in some of the more challenging subjects, demonstrate just how talented out students are and cow committed our teachers are to empowering our students to succeed and realise their potential. Congratulations Class of 2016.”\nI am really pleased with my results. Aidan Smith\nJenny Clark from Marsden, south Shields, had plenty of reasons to be smiling after scooping nine A*s and two As.\nShe will be studying biology, chemistry, maths and music A-levels at the school’s sixth form in September.\nShe said: “I’ve just rang my dad with my results, he’s as thrilled to bits as I am.\n“I am thinking I’d like a career in medicine eventually or perhaps become a teacher, I’m not entirely sure at the minute.”\nSt Wilfrid's Roman Catholic College GCSE results\nMatthew Bain from South Shields, also gained nine A*s, but he was just one mark off a tenth A* in his English exam in which he received an A.\nHe said: “I just missed out by one mark, but I can’t really complain can I?\n“I had been predicted good grades, six A*s and the rest were As and B, but my actual ones were even better than that in the end.\n“I’m going to be studying maths, physics , English literature and biology at sixth form in September and I’d like to study English literature at university.”\nAidan Smith, 16, from Jarrow, was relived to pick up four A*s, four As, two Bs and also a grade B in a maths GCE - which is the equivalent of an A-level\nHe said: “I’m really pleased with my results. I have no idea what I;d eventually like to do, but I;ll be studying maths, French, Spanish and theology at sixth form in September.”}}
{{Kamala Harris, Senator of California, has been making many headlines for her outspokenness and fearless approach to handling the male-dominated field in politics. Being both African-American and a woman, she is yet another figure who is breaking down barriers for future generations. Today, she decided to share with us something a little more personal and unrelated to politics, in the form of a playlist titled #AAMAM – All Time Favorites. The collection of songs is dedicated to African-American Music Month, decreed by former President Jimmy Carter to be celebrated annually every June.\nThe playlist features some of her favorite songs from the past and present, ranging from artists such as A Tribe Called Quest and Lauryn Hill to Childish Gambino and Migos. The 45-song playlist is dedicated to artists who have paved the way and given African-Americans another way of using their voices. You can stream the playlist below and bear witness to how this politician commands the aux cord just as well as she commands a room.}}
{{WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Department of Education is preparing to take a “deep dive” into accreditation, Diane Auer Jones, a special adviser to Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, said Tuesday.\nSpeaking at a University Professional and Continuing Education Association conference, Jones said that current regulations are hampering colleges’ efforts to offer non-degree-level credentials.\n“What we hear from both faculty and employers is that [accreditation] is always going to hold innovation back,” said Jones.\nThe department announced earlier this year that it is planning to amend federal rules related to accrediting agencies and accreditation procedures through negotiated rule making.\nNotice of the public hearings for this process will come out in the Federal Register this summer, said Jones. “We take these public hearings very seriously, and we want you to come to these hearings with ideas,” she said.\nJones said she wants to understand what’s working in accreditation, as well as areas “where we have created a behemoth monstrosity of bureaucracy that is unnecessary.”\n“Accreditation has to change to allow institutions to be more nimble,” said Jones. Not everyone needs a degree to get the job they want, and non-degree-level credentials can play an important role in training the work force. But to allow innovation in this space, “we have to make some policy changes in thinking about how we distribute aid, how we count outcomes, how we follow a student’s progress,” said Jones.\nIdeas that push the boundaries of accreditation are welcomed, even if this entails some risk (which would be carefully monitored), said Jones. She suggested that some federal funding might be put toward such experiments, so that participants don't have to worry about paying "millions of dollars back" if an experiment doesn’t work out.\n“I always want to be careful to direct our funding to the best ideas,” said Jones. “But not everything is going to work, that’s just how it goes.”\nReferencing EQUIP -- an ongoing experiment begun during the Obama years to give nontraditional providers access to federal financial aid (which has somewhat stalled) -- Jones said she expects there will be insights that the department can glean from the program, but stressed “we have to come up with other ideas.”\nAmong other things, the EQUIP program represents a departure from the 50 percent rule, which says that no more than half of a degree program can be delivered by a nonaccredited provider. But EQUIP was just “dipping a toe in the water,” said Jones.\nDepartment officials keep hearing two concerns about accreditation, Jones said. The first issue is that community colleges “want to do something innovative” with non-degree-level credentials but can “only do it on the noncredit side because of accreditation,” said Jones. The second is that accreditors are “really into credential inflation,” said Jones.\n“We don’t normally hear of [credential inflation] being driven by employers,” said Jones. Taking a credential and turning it into a master’s degree, “just because a bunch of people teaching the program want it to be,” isn’t necessarily what employers and employees want, she said.\nWhat employers want is a key concern for Jones. She spoke favorably about apprenticeships during the UPCEA session, adding that many employers have been reliant on degrees that are “maybe not appropriate or necessary” for “too long,” said Jones.\n“We have millennials who are very interested in new ways of thinking, we have parents who are worried about costs and we have lots of jobs in the sector that have not been historically reliant on the four-year degree,” said Jones. “So here’s our moment.”}}
{{MILAN, Tenn. (AP) — About 12 years ago Daphne Wallis was diagnosed with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, anxiety and depression.\nFrom being in an abusive relationship to living in poverty to dealing with her mental health, Wallis was in a dark place — until she decided to create her own happiness through art.\n“Creating something from nothing helps me know that fresh starts exist,” Wallis said. “It keeps me in recovery mode.”\nWallis started painting and drawing at a young age to take her mind off the negativity she faced in her life.\n“I used it to vent,” she said. “I used it as a coping mechanism.”\nArt was not something Wallis thought about doing professionally until 2013, when she sold her first piece. This was around the time she started experimenting with painting on wood.\nShe shared pictures of her work on social media just to show her friends what she was working on, and people started asking her for orders.\n“I had prayed and asked God if he would send me somebody to help me with where I fell short,” she said. “If art is what he wanted me to do, then I would give it my all.”\nFast forward to 2017, Wallis moved from Mississippi to Milan so she and her friend Lisa Steele could open up Angel Water Art Studio.\nWhen Steele called and asked if she wanted to start a business together, Wallis knew that was God answering her prayers.\n“I have a motto: Don’t tell me why you can’t, find me a reason why you can,” Steele said.\nSteele believed in Wallis’ vision of using art to help others’ recovery and wanted to be part of it. After being diagnosed with multiple sclerosis, she fell into a depression herself.\nShe decided not to let that overcome her and wanted to stand up for something, so she felt it was a good idea for her to go into business with Wallis, she said.\n“Put your efforts into something that interests you, and come out with a good life,” Steele said.\nMusic and art are the light to her darkness\nIn addition to painting, Wallis writes and sings what she calls recovery music. Part of her process includes sharing her music and stories on YouTube.\nHer video diaries show her entire recovery journey — the good and the bad.\n“It shows me not on any kind of medication but depressed; it shows me frustrated, everything I was going through,” Wallis said. “And it shows me struggling with my mental illness at times.”\nThis was all at the beginning of her journey, and the videos show her searching for God. It shows God’s mercy and how he helps you no matter what your flaws are, she noted.\n“I look back over the stuff and it keeps me going,” Wallis said.\nThe reason Wallis decided to put herself out there and make her videos public was to be an example for someone else.\n“When I was looking for an example, looking for someone to guide me through . there was nobody,” Wallis said. “I felt like if I’m going to do this I need to share it, because I know that it’ll help somebody to see the process of recovery.”\nThe motivation behind everything she does is to help people with recovery — recovery from mental health, abuse, addiction or anything negative.\nIn the future Wallis dreams of creating a ministry called Angel Water Solutions dedicated to helping people recover with all forms of art.\nShe has seen loved ones get lost in mental illness and addiction and prayed for them to be saved, but she had to start with herself.\n“You can’t help save somebody from drowning if you’re drowning with them,” Wallis said. “So I started swimming.”\nToday, Wallis is positive and optimistic, but a few years ago she was far from it.\nIn 2006, she checked herself into a mental hospital and was at one of her lowest points in life. One day she was walking around the hospital and saw a board with a positive message written on it.\nThe nurses would write a new quote every day, and Wallis found herself excited to go back and read it.\n“I was so depressed during that time,” Wallis said. “It was just like my entire being was giving up and shutting down.”\nThose simple messages gave her hope that there were better days ahead.\nInstead of looking to other people for motivation and happiness, she found it within herself.\nWhen one door closes, he will open another\nSteele got a promotion at her job and had to quit Angel Water Art Studio. Wallis was not in a position to keep it open by herself, and it closed the beginning of November.\n“I’m tired but I’m hopeful still, and I’m so excited more than anything,” Wallis said.\nHad this happened a few years ago, Wallis would have fallen into depression and not been able to deal with the situation as well as she is now.\nInstead of focusing on the negative, she is choosing to think of all the new possibilities she has. She is still able to host painting parties at people’s homes, and she plans to expand her online business until she can open another studio.\n“I realized you don’t have to have people to support you that are close to you — motivating yourself is the main thing,” Wallis said. “God will send people to support you.”\n___\nInformation from: The Jackson Sun, http://www.jacksonsun.com}}
{{The Western Dubuque school board will be getting a new leader. Current board president Mark Knuth has announced that he will not be running for re-election this fall. WD Superintendent Rick Colpitts delivered that message on Knuth’s behalf at the board’s June meeting, which Knuth could not attend. Knuth was first elected to the WD school board in 2005. He currently represents most of the southern one-third of the district, including the communities of Cascade and Bernard. He abstained from the vote on whether to close the elementary school in Bernard when the issue came before the board earlier this year. Knuth’s district is one of two up for election this fall, with the other being the district that covers the far northern portion of the district. Mark Tilson represents that district, which includes the towns of Bankston, Holy Cross, Luxemburg, New Vienna, and Rickardsville. Candidates running for school board elections can begin filing paperwork on July 10, which is less than three weeks from now. School elections across Iowa will take place on the second Tuesday of September, the 12th.}}
{{Get Daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nChildren have been going wild for tomato and mozzarella bruschettas at school this year - it is the top choice at lunchtime.\nNottinghamshire County Council has made a list of the most popular choices for children and it came out on top.\nOther popular dishes include tomato soup and roast dinner with potatoes and vegetables.\nHere is a list on the most popular school meal dishes in Nottinghamshire in 2017:\n1.) Tomato and mozzarella bruschetta (newly introduced starter in September)\n2.) Tomato soup and tomato dipping bread\n3.) Roast dinner, potatoes and vegetable\n4.) Fish goujons and chips\n5.) Vegetarian sausage roll\n6.) Spaghetti bolognese and garlic slice\n7.) Nottinghamshire sausage, onion gravy, Yorkshire pudding and vegetables\n8.) Macaroni cheese\n9.) Butterscotch tart\n10.) Fruity flapjack}}
{{GETTY Students are rebelling against uniform policy during the heatwave\nThe anger erupted after pupils were sent home from Kingswood Academy in Hull after they refused to wear their blazes as temperatures soared to 30C. Leanna Monkman, the mother of one pupil who was handed a fixed-term exclusion, said her son almost fainted due to the warm weather. According to Ms Monkman, 12-year-old Reece Wolfe’s school were made aware of his ill-health and advised him not to wear his blazer as part of efforts to prevent overheating.\nShe said: “My son attends Kingswood Academy part time so I took him into Bransholme centre before he started school at 10.50am to buy new school shoes. “He was in his school uniform and was so hot in his blazer he nearly fainted. Staff had to get him a chair to sit on and a glass of water. "When I got him to the school I asked reception if he could not wear his blazer because it was so hot, and they said he could as long as he carried it on his arm.”\nGETTY Children have been suffering in the heat as the country experiences a heatwave\nHowever, Ms Monkman said she received a call from the school around five minutes later saying her son had been given an exclusion. Speaking to the Hull Daily Mail, she explained: "They said if he didn’t wear his blazer he would have to go to consequences (a room where disruptive children are sent as part of the school’s disciplinary policy), or face being expelled. “But he didn’t want to go into consequences because it’s stuffy and there’s no air conditioning in there.”\nThe year 7 pupil said: “I was on the second floor and (a teacher) asked me to put the blazer on and I said no because my mum had told me to keep it off. "He started having a go and started saying if I don’t put it on I would have to go to consequences. I said no because it would make me ill. “When I went to reception they told me I’d been expelled.” A further two students were also sent home for refusing to wear their blazers.\nBritain sizzles in heatwave latest pictures Tue, June 20, 2017 The UK is set for a stonking hot weekend with temperatures in the high twenties and unbroken sunshine Play slideshow SWNS.com 1 of 40 Miss Devon, Becky Wright (17) enjoys the sunshine and hot weather at the Paignton beach in Devon. June 20, 2017\nMr Dale Jackson, Principal at Kingswood Academy, told The Telegraph: "Yesterday no students were sent home as a direct results of not wearing their blazer. “Three students, were however, sent home on 'fixed term exclusions' due to rude and defiant behaviour. This type of behaviour is simply not tolerated at Kingswood Academy. "With regards to our uniform policy students must wear their blazers when moving around the academy through the cool and well ventilated corridors and open spaces. “Students are welcome to take off their blazers in lessons, when sat down eating at break and lunch times and when outside."\nThe argument over uniform policy during the heatwave appears to have spread to other parts of the country, with reports of similar disputes as far as Dorset. Kelly Adenrele sent her four children, Lucien and Newton, both 15, Eylarna, 13, and 12-year-old Tadyius to the Bishop of Winchester Academy in Bournemouth, Dorset, without their jackets as temperatures in Bournemouth peaked at 29C. She claims she was stunned when all four children were sent home by teachers, who insisted they wear full uniform.\nSWNS Brits have been trying to cool off as temperatures soar across the country}}
{{The Mediterranean Sea route for Syrian refugees hoping to settle in the West is the deadliest route in the world for them to travel. Of the reported 5,350 refugee deaths in 2015, at least 3,700 were on the Mediterranean. This journey is captured in VRefugees, a VR experience founded by Lina Zdruli. Designed to be an empathy building tool, the project narrates the journey of seven refugees fleeing Syria and crossing into Europe. When users put on the Oculus headset, they’re immersed in the world of a refugee making this voyage.\nAs someone who understands some of the trials refugees experience, Zdruli is determined to prove that the private sector can provide solutions for refugee employment. She wrote her MBA thesis at Georgetown University on the topic. As a World Bank consultant, she analyzes this prospect and studies the potential risks involved. And as an entrepreneur, she’s putting her theory to the test.\n“At the World Bank, we work on the humanitarian development nexus, and look at how we can create a bridge from immediate relief to more livelihoods and sustainment,” says Zdruli. “So I wanted to learn on my end as a business owner what the unique points are, and how can we develop a model that other industries can adopt.”\nDafero Dates\nIn February 2018, Zdruli launched Dafero, a consumer food startup that employs refugee women to make healthy, organic snacks. Working out of a commercial kitchen, the women choose the best variety of dates to produce Dafero’s naturally gluten-free date spread. They’ll soon be making almond butter, and at times bake date-based brownies.\nDafero\nEmployment & Training\nThrough a partnership with the International Rescue Committee in Maryland, Dafero has access to a steady pipeline of refugee women ready to get to work.\nZdruli says that in addition to employment, Dafero plans to offer leadership skills to its employees, and connect them to English classes, as mastering the English language is vital for some refugees to build livelihoods in the United States.\nFor example, Dafero’s first employee, Safa, a Syrian refugee who settled in Maryland with her family, was a hairdresser back home in Syria. She had gotten as far as the eighth grade in her education.}}
{{Is it a coincidence that the FIRST DAY of summer is the same day as the LAST DAY of school?\nNope, not at all.\nSo now that summer vacation has OFFICIALLY kicked in, what are you going to do?\nWe’ve created a list of things to help you unwind and welcome this much needed break!\n1. Summer Bash\nThe perfect kickoff to summer is THIS WEEKEND at the B96 Pepsi #SummerBash at the Allstate Arena. Get your tickets here.\n2. Pools are Open\nWhen I think of summer, I think of going to the pool. All pools are now open so enjoy a day lounging with your friends. Remember to bring the SPF though.\n3. Water Park on the Lake\nThis might be the coolest thing opening in Chicago this summer. The floating water park is Indiana so pick a day and have your parents take you!\n4. Free Museum Days\nYou can check out the Adler Planetarium, Art Institute of Chicago, or Museum of Science and Industry for FREE. See dates HERE!\n5. Movies in the Park\nCan you think of a better way to spend an evening than lounging on a picnic blanket, watching a movie in Millennium Park? Here’s the summer movie list schedule.\n6. Reading Summer Program at your local library!\nJoin a summer book club! Books can take you on plenty of adventures this summer and they’ll keep your mind sharp!}}
{{MCALLEN, Texas — Buses from America’s most controversial immigration jail roll into this border city all day long, transporting parents — and sometimes children — to starkly different fates.\nSome families are deposited together at a small depot downtown, free to head to their next destination and begin new lives in the United States while they await hearings or seek asylum in the backlogged immigration courts.\nBut other buses take the adults alone to a forbidding black office tower nearby, where they stand in shackles and handcuffs as a federal magistrate judge rapid-fire convicts them of illegally entering the United States, virtually assuring their deportation.\nSince the Trump administration announced in May it would prosecute 100 percent of all people caught crossing the border illegally — even if that meant separating parents from their children — advocates for immigrants say the system is overwhelmed and leading to sometimes haphazard results.\nMigrants facing similar dangers in Central America have ended up on dramatically different paths.\nSome are “lucky,” said Sister Norma Pimentel, executive director of Catholic Charities of the Rio Grande Valley. Others, she said, are “sent to serve time.”\nMarco Carias, who at 41 years old is fleeing threats in Guatemala, talks with Luis Guerrero, who helps migrants, at the McAllen, Texas, bus station on Tuesday. Carias is wearing an ankle monitor that immigration officers affixed to him before they released him to pursue his asylum claim. (Maria Sacchetti/The Washington Post)\nThe disparities are most vivid in the Border Patrol’s Rio Grande sector, where the highest number of families are crossing illegally into the United States, nearly 37,000 so far this year.\nParents and children apprehended crossing the border are typically taken to Customs and Border Protection’s sprawling processing center on West Ursula Avenue, in a faded industrial park on the outskirts of town. Hundreds have been separated inside the facility, which is ringed by tall, tan fencing and uses interior chain-link fences to separate groups of detainees.\nNationwide, nearly 2,500 children have been taken from their parents since mid-April, according to Homeland Security.\n[GOP leaders hope bill addressing family separations will pass Thursday]\n“It’s happening every day,” said Efren Olivares, racial and economic justice director at the Texas Civil Rights Project who interviews adults at the U.S. District Courthouse before they are prosecuted, typically for the misdemeanor crime of illegally entering the United States. “They’re really ramping up the numbers. This week is worse than last week.”\nAt the federal courthouse, 19 parents were separated at the Monday morning session. It rose to 34 by Tuesday morning, when the diverging paths unfolded on a two-block stretch of downtown McAllen, a mostly Hispanic city of 142,000.\nImmigration officials released Marco Carias, a 41-year-old farmer from Guatemala detained for crossing the border last week in the Texas town of Roma, even though he had been deported in 2005 and could have been prosecuted for the more serious crime of illegally reentering the United States.\nCarias said he hoped he was released because he has a bona fide claim for asylum. In a red shopping bag he carried the police reports from when his son, now 17, was abducted when he was 10. The assailant had recently resurfaced and threatened the entire family.\nBut his records show an immigration officer released him because of a “lack of space.”\n“I guess it depends on who you get,” he said before boarding a bus to California.\nFederal officials also cited the space shortage when they released a 21-year-old single mother from Honduras and her 1 1/2-year-old son, Josua, who floated across the Rio Grande on a crowded raft last week.\nShe said she is seeking asylum because she fears gang violence, a criteria Attorney General Jeff Sessions recently ruled is unlikely to prevail in immigration courts.\nBefore she left for the United States this month, she said, she had not heard that the U.S. government planned to separate parents from children and prosecute everyone who crossed the border illegally. Still, she said she would not have changed her mind.\n“My life was in danger, my son’s life,” she said, holding the boy, her son, his new Spider Man sneakers tucked into her bag, as they waited for a bus to New York. “I can’t live in my country.”\n[Trump didn’t invent family separation. But his administration was willing to try it.]\nThe released migrants wore ankle monitors and must contend with check ins with ICE and, eventually, hearings in immigration court. They could eventually lose their cases and be ordered deported.\nBut they had support from volunteers at the Catholic Charities Humanitarian Respite Center, a welcoming spot across from the courthouse where migrants can get a bowl of hot chicken soup, take a nap or watch a soccer game on a big-screen TV. Volunteers hand out razors, boxes of diapers in different sizes and fliers for the bus stop that says, “Please help me. I do not speak English. What bus do I need to take?”\nThese migrants have a chance of staying in the United States, unlike most of the 120 or so adults who faced Magistrate Judge J. Scott Hacker on Tuesday in U.S. District Court.\nJust before 2 p.m. about 50 migrants — mostly men — shuffled into the courtroom in arm and leg shackles, filling three rows of wooden benches.\nThe judge handled them all at once, pointing to each person as if he were a preacher at Sunday services. He asked each how they came to America. Almost everyone had crossed the Rio Grande in a boat or a rubber raft. Some swam across. One man said he walked until the water covered his head.\n“I will accept all your guilty pleas,” he said\nAbout half were sentenced to time served because they had no prior records.\nThe rest faced more serious consequences, including a young man wearing a Yankees T-shirt who spoke perfect English because he was raised in the United States. He had been deported for drunken driving and had tried to sneak back in.\nAbel Guerrero, the federal public defender, tried to speak for each one, explaining many repeat offenders were trying to join their families in Texas, North Carolina and Massachusetts.\nA man with three convictions for illegally reentering the United States received 60 days in jail.\n“You should know better by now,” Hacker admonished him.\nAnother man had been apprehended 11 times and had two recent convictions for illegally coming to the United States.\nGuerrero said the man is trying to visit his mother in Houston. “She is sick. She’s actually dying of cancer,” he told the judge. He said the woman has seven months to live.\nHacker sentenced the man to two months in jail, after which he — like the others — could be deported.\nMost of the migrants had nothing to say, but three women asked when they would see their children again. After the parents and children are separated for the criminal prosecutions, the children are sent to shelters run by U.S. Health and Human Services.\n“Hopefully,” the judge told one woman in response, “those officials will reunite you with your child.”}}
{{Apple is imagining what the inner workings of an iPhone might look like were they handled by an old-school film archivist rather than an algorithm.\nA new 90-second commercial centers an old man lovingly clipping together meaningful photos and videos of a young Spanish family from a warehouse full of reels. Only later in the video is it revealed that the man is supposed to represent Apple's new "memories" tab, a new feature in iOS 10 that uses facial recognition and artificial intelligence to string together themed mini-movies from media saved on your phone.\nThe family featured in this particular ad is based on the story of a real-life couple in Spain, the company says.}}
{{A public school board plan to sever and potentially sell 11 acres of green space surrounding Ancaster high school is being called a "declaration of war" by the local councillor.\nChair Todd White confirmed Wednesday to city councillors the Hamilton Wentworth District School Board has decided to sever and potentially sell 11 acres from the 43-acre property at Ancaster high school.\nThe city would have an early opportunity to buy the land, but market value estimates for such a purchase range between $11 million and $15 million.\nAncaster Coun. Lloyd Ferguson publicly condemned and vowed to fight the move, calling it a "downloading of the cost of education" on the city.\n"Taxpayers have already paid for that property once," he said at a general issues committee meeting, later suggesting the move to sell to the city but retain effective use of the green space is close to "a scam."\nThe property, one of the school board's largest, also holds 10 soccer fields used by students as well as residents and community groups.\nWhite said he understood the move would be contentious, but noted the funding-starved school board is re-evaluating its properties throughout the city. No other school "is even close" to having 43 acres attached, he said, pointing to the stadium precinct school under construction on 1.5 acres.\nWhite said the board could have decided to sever up to 22 acres, but tried to come up with a "fair" compromise that would not put undue hardship "on a particular community."\n"We know this puts council in a difficult position," said White, who noted that was part of the thinking behind a recent board decision to offer the city the chance to spread future payments for school property purchases over several years.\nWhile the board has voted to sever the property, it will need a municipal sign-off on that application.}}
{{American Airlines asks Trump administration not to put migrant children separated from their parents on its flights\nShare story}}
{{A total of 22,143 people had to be evacuated from the festival. (Representational Image) A total of 22,143 people had to be evacuated from the festival. (Representational Image)\nMore than 22,000 people were evacuated when the stage at an electronic music festival near Barcelona erupted in flames, sending revellers running. Firefighters rushed to the Tomorrowland festival in Santa Coloma de Gramenet in northeastern Spain, and eventually managed to extinguish the blaze which caused no injuries, they said in a statement. A total of 22,143 people had to be evacuated from the festival, they added.\nFootage of the incident shows one side of the stage consumed by giant flames, a shower of sparks raining down as people ran away and black smoke billowing up. It is not clear what caused the blaze, but organisers said on their Facebook page it was due to a technical malfunction. “Thanks to the professional intervention of the authorities all 22.000 visitors were evacuated safely and without reports of injuries,” they said.\nFor all the latest World News, download Indian Express App}}
{{SHARE THIS\nThe Webster Parish School Board opened bids for the contract for construction and renovation at J.A. Phillips Middle School and Webster Junior High School.\nAt the bid opening Thursday, five sealed bids were turned in and Architect Perry Watson, with Yeager, Watson and Associates, recommended the lowest bid go to Boggs & Poole Contracting Group, Inc., of Bossier City. They turned in the lowest bid at $5,757,000 with an addendum or alternate of $46,000. Watson explained the alternate bid will add an aluminum unloading cover and a concrete walk expansion to the east side of the WJHS campus. The $46,000 will cover the cost of this addition, he said.\nOther bids offered included Don M. Barron Contractors, Inc., of Farmerville with a bid of $5,938,000 with alternate #1 at $34,500; ELA Group, Inc., of Shreveport with a bid of $5,778,700 with alternate #1 at $45,000; Brown Builders of Shreveport with a bid of $5,898,000 with alternate #1 at $39,800; and Walker Construction Co., Inc., of Ruston with a bid of $5,788,000, with alternate #1 at $34,000.\nEach company bid on a timeframe of 400 days to complete the project. Superintendent of Schools Dr. Dan Rawls says the original bid was for 300 days, but most companies that submitted bids told Watson they could not complete the project so quickly. To alleviate that issue, contractors submitted bids based on a 400-day timeframe.\n“We were under the impression that 300 days would be enough, but all the vendors we sent them to, from what I was told, they balked at that and said there was no way they could do it in 300 days,” he said. “To preempt having to bid it again, the vendors were told to bid it for 400 days. The original bid was for 300 days, and all but one backed out and said 300 days was not enough time.”\nAn additional wing will be constructed at each school at the same time, with modifications made to the existing campuses. A kindergarten wing will be added to Phillips and the existing campus will be renovated in order to be age appropriate. At WJHS, a sixth grade wing will be constructed with some modifications to the gymnasium to accommodate the additional students. The cafeteria will also receive an overhaul for the same reason.\nThe project resulted from an outcry of teachers and parents of kindergarten and first grade students at J.E. Harper Elementary School. Infrastructure issues as well as noise levels stemming from an open air classroom setting led to the decision to add on to the other two schools.\nThe kindergarten and first grade students will be moved to Phillips and the sixth grade will move to WJHS.\nNo decision has been made on what to do with the Harper campus, except that it must be used for educational purposes.\nThe total cost of the project is estimated to be $5.9 to $6 million that will be paid for through a bond issue.\nWith the addition of the 100 days to the project, the completion date has been moved from July 2017 to somewhere around Christmas of the same year, Rawls said.\nThe bid is expected to be awarded at a special meeting Monday at 6 p.m. at Central Office. Board members will also receive for review the Webster Parish Pupil Progression Plan for consideration at the Sept. 12 monthly board meeting.\nShare this: Facebook\nTwitter\nGoogle\nEmail\nPrint}}
{{The Canadian Press\nOTTAWA - The U.S. policy of separating child migrants from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border and detaining them, is “unacceptable,” Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said today.\n“What's going on in the United States is wrong, ” Trudeau told reporters.\n“I can't imagine what the families who are living through this are enduring,” he added, saying this “is not the way we do things in Canada.”\nTrudeau has been called upon to condemn the Trump administration's “zero-tolerance policy,” under which asylum seekers who cross illegally into the U.S. are charged with federal crimes and separated from their children, who are detained in guarded, fenced enclosures.\nOn Wednesday, the Canadian Council for Refugees joined others, including NDP immigration critic Jenny Kwan, in urging the federal government to suspend the Safe Third Country Agreement. The council says the U.S. cannot be considered a safe country for refugees in light of the “disturbing” events at the U.S. border.\nThe government says it is monitoring the changes in U.S. immigration policy and what effects they will have on asylum seekers in the United States.\nThe Canada Border Services Agency does detain some immigrants to Canada who are considered a flight risk or a danger to the public, and those whose identities cannot be confirmed. Canadian policy on child migrants allows detained parents to keep their children with them in holding centres if other alternatives cannot be found.\nConcerns have been raised in the past over the number of migrant children detained every year by Canadian border officials. Last year, 162 minors were detained or housed with their parents in holding centres.\nThat number has been going down, Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale said earlier this week. Last November, he issued a directive to the Canada Border Services Agency to keep children out of detention and keep families together “as much as humanly possible.”}}
{{Arts, Crafts, Music & Strawberries in Middletown Springs\nLocal artists, craftsmakers and musicians will join Historical Society volunteers to present the 42nd annual Middletown Springs Strawberry Festival on Sunday, June 25, from 2 to 4 p.m. Admission is free to the event, held on the Village Green. Attendants can enjoy strawberry shortcake made with fresh local strawberries, homemade biscuits, vanilla ice cream and whipped cream, along with iced tea, lemonade or coffee, all for $6. Noted artist Peter Huntoon will demonstrate his water color painting technique and display his fine art prints. Other exhibitors will include Anne Krouse, author of ‘A Gem in the Hills,’ a book on Middletown Springs history, along with producers of maple products, honey and beeswax products, art, jewelry and much more. Acoustic music will be provided by Paul Morgan and friends, there will be children’s activities, and Historical Society Museum will be open all afternoon. To find out more, call Pat Hemenway at 802-235-2421.}}
{{The Insurance Bureau of Canada is crisscrossing Quebec with an earthquake simulator to give citizens a sense of what it’s like to live through a tremblor.\nThe bureau will deploy its Shakezone portable earthquake simulator in Quebec City, Laval, Gatineau and Montreal at a variety of festivals and events until June 10. The simulator allows users to experience what it’s like to be in a magnitude 7 Richter scale earthquake for 30 seconds. The goal is to help Quebecers prepare for an eventual earthquake, particularly by learning what actions to take.\nTips include keeping at least a quarter tank of gas in the car at all times, keeping a flashlight and pair of shoes by every bed in the house, and practicing steps to follow with family members in the event of a quake. Each year in Canada, about 450 earthquakes are recorded, and the probability that a strong earthquake will strike Quebec exists.\nThe Shakezone will be at the firefighters festival next weekend, and at the MURAL Festival in Montreal on June 10.}}
{{Mount Airy City Schools From left are MAHS assistant principal Kevin Joyce, math teacher and district Teacher of the Year Courtney Howlett, English teacher Jennifer Jones, and principal Jason Dorsett. -\nAn area educational group has recognized Mount Airy High School for its achievements.\nMount Airy City Schools announced Saturday afternoon that the Piedmont Triad Education Consortium has designated MAHS as a Signature School for 2019.\nAccording to MACS, this recognition highlights the accomplishments and exemplifies the excellence that MAHS experienced in 2018.\nThe high school follows Jones Intermediate being recognized in 2017 and Tharrington Primary in 2016.\nMAHS students and staff have experienced success due to their academic and innovative accomplishments, according to Carrie Venable, public information officer. Staff members in collaboration with parents and students strive to grow every child, every day.\nOn average, students attending MAHS grew more than one year’s worth of growth each year according to accountability reports. This highlight is supported by data that notes 100 percent of teachers met or exceeded growth academically. This work has placed the school in the top 20 percent in the state for overall growth.\nAt 87.6 percent for school growth, Mount Airy High School earned a B ranking for its school performance grade. Some highlights of the year include students ranked seventh in the state for proficiency in mathematics, had 100 percent of Career and Technical Education (CTE) concentrators graduate, and performed well with 93 percent of students achieving technical skills attainment on CTE exams.\nThe class of 2018 graduated 108 students and earned $1.3 million in scholarship offers, noted Venable, and 88 percent of graduates chose to go on to a 2- or 4-year college.\n“I am extremely proud of the accomplishments of Mount Airy High School,” said Jason Dorsett, who took over day-to-day supervision this year for Sandy George, who is transitioning to a role in the central office.\n”Our staff has dedicated themselves to help create a tradition of excellence in the classroom — athletically and through fine arts,” said Dorsett, whose son Christopher led the Granite Bears to a state golf title in his time at MAHS. “Led by a devoted team of educators who works together to put students first, I am excited about the future of Mount Airy High School and the career and college opportunities being provided.”\nThe district’s Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Mathematics (STEAM) framework includes a global emphasis that allows MAHS to create a learning environment where students are striving to be problem-solvers and global thinkers, according to Venable.\nCourse selections continue to increase with the addition of STEAM and health science courses. Students now have access to Project Lead the Way, a Certified Nurse Assistant program, and drone program. Through the Richard Childress Racing partnership, students are provided ongoing internship and shadowing experiences, after-school racing clubs, and mentors for up-and-coming engineers.\nMAHS’s world language courses include Spanish and Chinese taught by native speakers. The Global Partnership Initiative enhances learning through the opportunities to travel to China and host students from China. These experiences, in addition to frequent video-conferencing and project work with students in Beijing, allows students to grow in their cultural awareness and appreciation.\nDr. Kim Morrison, district superintendent, said that school officials “know that a strong K-12 program results in graduating our students career- and college-ready. We are thankful that in addition to 11 Advanced Placement offerings, we are also able to offer multiple college courses for our students to be dually enrolled with Surry Community College.\n“Our high school has a reputation for excellence and outperforms most traditional high schools in the state ensuring that we work with every child to help them fulfill their purpose.“\nFrom left are MAHS assistant principal Kevin Joyce, math teacher and district Teacher of the Year Courtney Howlett, English teacher Jennifer Jones, and principal Jason Dorsett. https://www.mtairynews.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/12/web1_PTEC.jpg From left are MAHS assistant principal Kevin Joyce, math teacher and district Teacher of the Year Courtney Howlett, English teacher Jennifer Jones, and principal Jason Dorsett. Mount Airy City Schools\nBy Jeff Linville jlinville@mtairynews.com\nReach Jeff at 415-4692.\nReach Jeff at 415-4692.}}
{{By AFP Staff\nChris Cabrera, a spokesperson for the National Border Patrol Council, was on CNN yesterday not just to defend law enforcement efforts on the border but also to call out Congress for failing in its constitutional duty to solve the immigration crisis.\nIn the shocking interview, Cabrera recounted horror stories that Border Patrol agents experience on a daily basis while policing the U.S. border with Mexico.\n“We’ve had this situation going on for four years now,” he said. “I don’t think you can necessarily blame it on one administration or another. It started under one and is continuing under another. It hasn’t been fixed and it needs to be fixed.”\nCabrera went on to cite some of the worst examples officers have faced as a result of the lax U.S. border enforcement.\n“When you see a 12-year-old girl with a plan B [birth control] pill—her parents put her on birth control because they know getting violated is part of the journey—that’s a terrible way to live,” he told CNN. “When you see a 4-year-old girl traveling alone with just her parents’ phone number written across her shirt. . . . We had a 9-year-old boy have heat stroke in front of us and die with no family around. That’s because we’re allowing people to take advantage of this system.”\nThe spokesman excoriated the mainstream media for focusing solely on the kids being separated from their families and missing the larger picture, which is continuing to send the message that if illegal immigrants will make the terrible journey to the U.S. border, they will be allowed entry. The onus is on Congress to make that stop, he added. The message has to be zero tolerance for illegal border crossings.\nAnd for those likening U.S. Border Patrol officers to Nazis, he had this to say: “Most of our agents are parents. I’ve seen guys and I’ve done it myself—you give your last bottle of water to a kid, you’ll take a toy out of your car to give to one of these kids because you know the situation they’re in. Agents are very sympathetic. We’re human, we’re fathers, we have families. We do a lot for the communities here, whether or not a camera is involved. Our agents are very involved. And nobody saves more lives along the southwestern border than the U.S. Border patrol.”\nYou can watch the entire interview here:}}
{{By PHYLLIS HAYASHIBARA\nBeyond Baroque, in coordination with the Venice Japanese American Memorial Monument Committee, will present on Saturday, May 26, from 2 to 4 p.m. an afternoon of music and poetry, a documentary film, and a panel discussion on the forced removal and incarceration of persons of Japanese ancestry during World War II.\nThe program will begin with a 15-minute performance of Deon Nielson Price’s composition for mixed media, “Behind Barbed Wire.” Pianist Mary Au and saxophonist Chika Inouye will perform as well as read haiku in English translation, written by incarcerees of assembly centers and the American concentration camps.\nBehind the musicians will be silent video images of life for Japanese Americans imprisoned behind barbed wire, bookended by footage of Imperial Japan’s attack on Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941 and of the U.S. atomic bombing of Hiroshima on Aug. 6, 1945, symbols of the beginning and the end of World War II for the U.S.\nNext, a new film, “And Then They Came For Us,” will be screened. Award-winning filmmaker Abby Ginzburg and her co-director and editor Ken Schneider produced this 50-minute documentary, which features interviews with former internees, including actor and activist George Takei.\nTakei and his family first faced imprisonment at the War Relocation Authority camp in Rohwer, Ark. After his parents declined to answer Questions 27 and 28 on the “loyalty questionnaire” in the affirmative, however, the Takeis were sent to what became the Tule Lake Segregation Center for potentially dangerously disloyal persons of Japanese ancestry. Takei was seven years old at the time.\nIn his op-ed piece published in The New York Times on April 28, 2017, Takei wrote, “If this seems a practice only of years long past, consider that today we need merely replace ‘Japanese Americans’ with ‘Muslims’ for the parallels to emerge. Once again, we are told by our government that a blanket ban is needed. So brazen is this same troubling logic that a Trump surrogate even cited Japanese American internment as a precedent for the Muslim ban. Both rely upon the presupposition of guilt, one by race, the other by religion. Most chilling of all, both arise out of government policy and action.”\nIndeed, the film posits that the current administration in Washington, D.C. could perpetrate another constitutional violation under the guise of national security, this time against Muslims. The film’s title derives from the famous anti-Nazi warning by German Lutheran pastor Martin Neimoller, based on various speeches and references he made after the beginning of the Holocaust:\nFirst they came for the Communists, and I did not speak out\nBecause I was not a Communist\nThen they came for the Socialists, and I did not speak out\nBecause I was not a Socialist\nThen they came for the trade unionists, and I did not speak out\nBecause I was not a trade unionist\nThen they came for the Jews, and I did not speak out\nBecause I was not a Jew\nThen they came for me, and there was no one left\nTo speak out for me.\nThe Civil Liberties Act of 1988, signed 30 years ago by President Ronald Reagan, attributed the government’s actions following Executive Order 9066 to “race prejudice, war hysteria, and a failure of political leadership” as opposed to legitimate security reasons.\nFinally, the afternoon will end with a panel discussion with audience participation encouraged, on the lessons of the Japanese American internment and the dangerously parallel times we live in today. The Venice Japanese American Memorial Monument explicitly states, engraved on solid granite:\n“May this Venice Japanese American Memorial Monument remind us to be forever vigilant about defending our constitutional rights. The powers of government must never again perpetrate an injustice against any group based solely on ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, race, or religion.”\nFor reservations, contact Phyllis Hayashibara at [email protected] or call (310) 390-1576. General admission $10 general, $6 for students, seniors, and children, free for Beyond Baroque members. Seating will be limited to 100 persons in the intimate Beyond Baroque theater.\nLocated at 681 Venice Blvd. in Venice, Beyond Baroque is one of the leading independent Literary Arts Centers dedicated to expanding public knowledge of poetry, literature and art. For more information, call (310) 822-3006 or visit www.beyondbaroque.org.}}
{{One of the most successful music directors of Sandalwood has to be Arjun Janya. His songs have a melodious feel that transport you to a transcendental dimension, which earned him the title, 'Magic Composer'.\nHe has, till now, composed music for several films like Birugali, Kempegowda, Lucky, Manikya, Adhyaksha, Mukunda Murari and Hebbuli among other successful films. But, did you know that a successful director like Arjun Janya was once a common man too?\nYes, Arjun Janya has revealed this fact himself while he was on the show, Super Talk Time. The 'Magical Composer' who had been invited on to the show, along with his inspiration, Gurukiran. While on the show, he confessed to a few facts.\nApparently, before Arjun Janya became a music composer, he used to stand in long queues in front of music shops to buy Gurukiran's music CDs. He has also confessed that he grew up to be a music composer, keeping Gurukiran as his inspiration.\nWhile on the show, Arjun Janya said, "I am very honoured to sit beside my inspiration. It was he who helped me become who I am today. I still remember the old days when I used to stand in long queues to buy his music CDs."}}
{{The main industry group for Canadian print and digital media blasted Canada Post Thursday for what it called unfair competition in the flyer delivery business.\nNews Media Canada, which the Toronto Star is a member of, says Canada Post shouldn’t be using its exclusive access to condo and apartment mailboxes to deliver flyers. Newspapers have traditionally been the main delivery vehicle for flyers that advertise products for local businesses, and the practice is a major revenue source for many media outlets.\n“We don’t think that most Canadians would support using federal dollars to compete against local private business. However, if Canada Post is involved in the flyer business, it needs to be on a level playing field. Canada Post is undercutting local newspapers by using its exclusive access to lock boxes,” said News Media Canada CEO John Hinds.\nIn a statement responding to the industry group’s claims, Canada Post denied it’s competing unfairly, and argued it needs flyer revenue as part of its official mandate to be financially self-sufficient.\n“While Canada Post has exclusive access to mailboxes, we don’t deliver everything Canadians receive at their door. Newspaper distributors and other delivery operators often gain permits to access apartments from landlords and apartment building managers,” the statement said, adding that private companies, including newspapers, account for the majority of flyer delivery.\nHinds also contended it makes little sense for the federal government to allow Canada Post to unfairly take potential revenue away from newspapers, at the same time the media industry is struggling, thanks to increasing competition for advertising dollars.\n“At a time when our industry is knee-deep in transition, this deliberate undercutting of one of newspapers’ foundational revenue pillars by a federal Crown Corporation is very troubling,” Hinds said.\nThe Liberal government has promised almost $600 million in tax credits and incentives for some media organizations over the next five years.\nOutlets that meet certain qualifications will receive a 25 per cent tax credit on salaries for some newsroom employees, while media organizations will also be able to apply for charity-like status.\n“We believe this is a good time to reinforce the fact that local advertising supports local news creation and that flyers are a key component of the business. Canada Post isn’t creating jobs and news in communities,” Hinds said.}}
{{Now that school has started in Fallbrook, it won’t be too long before the Fallbrook High football stadium and fields will be filled with cheering parents and family friends supporting their children as they partake in a pastime they love. The hard-working actors and dancers at Mission Theatre deserve the same support, and it was evident that their passion and love for their art requires just as much dedication as any sport.\nThis was evident with CAST Academy’s summer camp presentation of Meredith Willson’s “The Music Man.” It was clear that camp director Jennifer Craw and director Oscar Escobedo had worked hard to get the actors to do give their best performances, even as they ended their summer production on Aug. 14.\nBehind the scenes, the children were comfortable in their costumes, and happy to be going on stage. As they waited in anticipation for the show to begin, the youngest actors, instead of being the chatterboxes, were the ones policing each other to make sure that it was truly silent behind stage.\nOnce the play began, the children got to show off their acting, dancing and singing abilities. Each has been working hard, and the favorite numbers from the musical, such as “76 Trombones,” “Pick-A-Little, Talk-A-Little,” “Marian the Librarian,” and “Goodnight My Someone” were performed to the best of everyone’s ability.\nCAST Academy’s summer camp had several sessions, with each guaranteeing that enrolled students would be given a role in the production. Every student performed in each of the five performances, which cannot be said for some players who invest in athletics. There’s simply no way that a sports team can compete with the inclusiveness of CAST Academy’s summer program.\nFrom 8:30 a.m. to noon, Mondays through Fridays for two weeks, students practiced, rehearsed and prepared for each production. Each child had the potential to become more confident in who he or she was as an actor, and it showed on performance days.\nThe CAST Academy, which offers dancing lessons, has helped children who love the arts become the best they can be for years. Dancers of all ages can become confident at the academy, and its students are proud to perform for everyone.\nJust because summer is over does not mean there are not other opportunities for children to participate in the arts. Scrooge the Musical, an adaptation of Charles Dickens’ “A Christmas Carol” will be performed from Dec. 9 to 23. In addition, dance classes are offered for individuals of all ages at CAST Academy.}}
{{If you are a subscriber: Simply log in for unlimited access.\nIf you are a nonsubscriber: You have used your free views allowed every 30 days. You must really value what we do for you. Try a digital subscription for only $0.99. Subscribe now.}}
{{As we continue to celebrate our nation's 150th birthday, Greater Sudbury Public Library staff members have taken time to highlight books to stock up for your road trips and beach days this summer. Many titles celebrating Canada are available for download to eReaders and other devices, while other books can be reserved to pick up at any one of the 13 public library locations.\n- Canada by Mike Myers. In this instant national bestseller, comedy superstar Mike Myers writes from the (true patriot) heart about his 53-year relationship with his beloved Canada. Mike Myers is a world-renowned actor, director and writer, and the man behind some of the most memorable comic characters of our time. But as he says: "no description of me is truly complete without saying I'm a Canadian." He has often winked and nodded to Canada in his outrageously accomplished body of work, but now he turns the spotlight full-beam on his homeland. His hilarious and heartfelt book is part memoir, part history and pure entertainment. It is Mike Myers' funny and thoughtful analysis of what makes Canada Canada, Canadians Canadians and what being Canadian has always meant to him. His relationship with his home and native land continues to deepen and grow, he says. In fact, American friends have actually accused him of enjoying being Canadian -- and he's happy to plead guilty as charged.\n- America, But Better: The Canada Party Manifesto by Chris Cannon and Brian Calvert. The Canada Party had a brilliant idea when America was looking for a new leader; why not elect Canada? Since launching their online video campaign, the Canada Party has gone viral, with almost a million hits on YouTube and coverage ranging from CNN and the BBC to the Huffington Post and German State Television. Their new book, America, but Better: the Canada Party Manifesto, balances the doctrine of American exceptionalism with a dose of Canadian humility and common sense in an effort to secure Canada as the new leader of the free world, by proxy. Their promises: One gay couple will be allowed to marry for every straight couple that gets divorced. The phrase "job creators" will be changed to "job creationists," and they will be given seven days to actually create some. Corporations will still be people, but if they can't provide a birth certificate they will be legally obligated to care for your lawn. Corners will be installed in the Oval Office, and timeouts given to congressmen who can't play nice. Devoted to restoring America to its former glory, the Canada Party will soon have the whole world chanting, "Yes We Canada." As described in one online review, this book is definitely worth a read if you enjoy tongue-in-cheek humour like Jon Stewart or Stephen Colbert.\n- The Promise of Canada: Building a Country One Idea at a Time by Charlotte Gray. What does it mean to be a Canadian? What great ideas have changed our country? An award-winning writer casts her eye over 150 years of Canadian history. "Our country owes its success not to some imagined tribal singularity but to the fact that, although its thirty-five million citizens do not look, speak or pray alike, we have learned to share this land and for the most part live in neighbourly sympathy." In The Promise of Canada, Gray weaves together portraits of nine influential Canadians, creating a unique history of the country over the past 150 years.\n- Our Story: Aboriginal Voices on Canada's Past is a collection of original stories written by some of the country's most celebrated Aboriginal writers, and inspired by pivotal events in the country's history. Asked to explore seminal moments in Canadian history from an Aboriginal perspective, 10 acclaimed authors have travelled through our country's past to discover the moments that shaped our nation and its people. Our Story brings together an impressive array of voices -- Inuk, Cherokee, Ojibway, Cree, and Salish to name just a few -- from across the country and across the spectrum of First Nations. These are the novelists, playwrights, journalists, activists, and artists whose work is both Aboriginal and uniquely Canadian. Brought together to explore and articulate their peoples' experience of our country's shared history, these authors' grace, insight, and humour help all Canadians understand the forces and experiences that have made us who we are. This book is a reminder that Aboriginal people have a history that extends far before the beginning of the European Canadian history we celebrate this year.\n-- Jessica Watts is co-ordinator of outreach programs and partnerships at the Greater Sudbury Public Library.}}
{{Fans cheer at the Unite \\ith Tomorrowland Korea music festival held at Incheon, Korea on Saturday. (Unite With Tomorrowland)\nThrough the magic of music and livestreaming, revelers here were granted front row access -- so to speak -- to Tomorrowland, a world-renowned electronic music festival.“Unite With Tomorrowland” landed in Korea on Saturday at Munhak Stadium in the country’s gateway city of Incheon. The event is held simultaneously in different locations around the world, with fans also enjoying performances of top-class DJs at the Tomorrowland festival in Belgium.Local DJs kicked things off. Glory was the opening act at the main stage, followed by Garenz and Bagagee Viphex13 to pump things up.Justin Oh followed, heating up the crowd with hits like “Jekyll & Hide.”“Make some noise for yourselves!” Oh shouted, exclaiming at the energy emanating from fans.For the next three hours, it was time for the Far East Movement and Knife Party -- among the most popular DJS in Korea -- to pump up the crowd. The estimated crowd of 20,000 were nearly all on their feet, jumping and screaming to deafening beats.Fan favorites like “Freal Luv” -- originally with Marshmello featuring Tinashe and Chanyeol from EXO -- were performed to the delight of fans.Capping things off at the Incheon live stage was Ferry Corsten, a Dutchman credited as a pioneer in trance music and one of the most recognized DJs in the music world. Corsten was making a repeat performance, as he recently performed during the first weekend of Tomorrowland 2017.“The vibe over here is amazing, I expect a good crowd,” Corsten said before taking the stage.“A lot has happened in Asia in terms of music. EDM has become really big, trance used to be really big but it’s taken a step aside. Worldwide, trance is making a big comeback. I start to see the signs of that in Asia. And I’m really excited to see what’s going on in Korea.”As in Belgium, a majority of his set was from his recent album “Blueprint.” Corsten sent the crowd into a psychedelic cosmic journey, with space opera-themed tracks like “Blueprint,” “Edge of The Sky” and “Venera,” which he said was among his favorite songs.Then it was off to Europe, to the Tomorrowland mainstage.KSHMR, who already entertained Korean fans at the Ultra Korea festival last month, kicked off the livestream performance across continents.Getting things started with “Mandala ft. Mitika,” the DJ commanded the crowd with his presence, capturing the crowd across the world as music fans in Belgium, Dubai, Germany, Israel, Lebanon, Malta and Incheon tirelessly partied on.By the time Armin Van Buuren took the stage, daylight had started to creep over the horizon. But this mattered little for the wild crowd who just refused to let up.Then finally, it was time for the ravers to go home, but not without a little something from Dimitri Vegas & Like Mike and Alesso.Alesso, also a repeat performer from Ultra Korea, wrapped up the music festival with a performance that likely left a mark in a country crazy for music, dancing and excitement.By Yoon Min-sik(minsikyoon@heraldcorp.com)}}
{{Today kicks off the first Welcoming Week in Cleveland. Hosted by Global Cleveland, the week offers a variety of events and special releases to celebrate immigrants in the community.\nJoe Cimperman is the president of Global Cleveland. He says cities around the country have been doing these types of welcoming weeks, but this is the first one in Northeast Ohio.\n“It’s really part of a larger effort to highlight the incredible importance and impact that immigrants, newcomers, refugees have on our community,” Cimperman says.\nGlobal Cleveland lists the Welcoming Week Kick-off as happening around the city by showcasing global friendly employers. They have an interactive map on their website.\nGlobal Cleveland kicked off the week by flying its flag in front of City Hall.\nOn Tuesday, the organization will host a “Passport Party” at Market Garden Brewery. Attendees are asked to bring their passports and show off their stamps that could win them prizes. They’ll also be able to receive a passport application, an application for renewal and a voter registration form.\nKhizr Khan, the Gold Star father known for taking aim at then-candidate Trump during the 2016 Democratic National Convention, will also be in the city for a couple of events.\nKhan is a constitutional lawyer who recently wrote a book about the constitution, This is our Constitution: What it is and Why it Matters. He’ll be signing books at the Cleveland Public Library on Tuesday. Khan came to the U.S. from Pakistan and will be sharing his story during a forum at the City Club on Wednesday.\nOn Sunday, the Cleveland Art Museum will release a self-guided tour of immigrant artists and Global Cleveland will release a Spotify playlist for the week on Monday.\n“We’re gonna say to people, you know, get your week going with some really fun music from all over the world,” Cimperman says. “Music from all over the world that’s brought to you from people living here in Northeastern Ohio.”\nThe week will end on Sept. 20 with a naturalization ceremony in Solon at the Cuyahoga County Public Library.\nCimperman says his mother was an immigrant from Slovenia and he thinks about her experience when doing outreach with the organization.\n“My mom would have these moments of great loneliness and I think that’s just part of the immigrant story in the United States,” he says. “And I think events like this not only tell the world that we’re open for business, that we welcome newcomers, that we want you to come here, but it says to the people who are already here how much we value them.”\nOther events throughout the week include an interfaith prayer service and luncheon with the United Church of Christ, a cocktail reception at Alexander Mann Solutions, and an informational breakfast about E-1/E-2 visas.\nA full list of the weeks’ events can be found on Global Cleveland’s website. Some events require registration.}}
{{In a statement, Global Affairs says John McCallum, Canada’s ambassador to China, met with Spavor today.\nOTTAWA—Canadian diplomats have been granted consular access to Michael Spavor, one of two Canadians arrested in China earlier this week.\nThe department says Canadian officials will assist Spavor and his family on an ongoing basis, but provided no other details.\nOn Friday, McCallum met with detainee Michael Kovrig, who is on a leave of absence from Global Affairs.\nSpavor and Kovrig were taken into custody days after Canadian authorities arrested leading senior Chinese executive Meng Wanzhou in Vancouver so she can be extradited to the U.S. to face fraud charges.}}
{{Undefeated Fairdale High School football saw its season come to an end Thursday after a player tested positive for COVID-19.\nFairdale (7-0) was scheduled to play at Owensboro (10-0) on Friday in the third round of the Class 5A playoffs. Owensboro will now receive a bye into the semifinals.\nFairdale athletic director Gregg Longacre said the program received the news Thursday and informed players during an “extremely emotional” Zoom meeting.\n“It’s tough on everybody,” Longacre said. “(Coach Louis Dover) isn’t even able to meet face to face with them. That makes it difficult. And who knows, with this COVID, when we’ll get that chance.”\nFairdale was set to face Owensboro in the third round of the playoffs for the second straight year. The Red Devils won last year’s meeting 41-6, leaving the Bulldogs with an 11-2 record.\nRelated coverage: What to know about Friday's football playoff games\nThis season, Fairdale averaged 48.3 points per game, ranking No. 3 in the state. Senior running back Deshawn Hamilton led the Bulldogs with 1,008 rushing yards and 15 touchdowns.\nDover declined comment but sent a text message about his team reading “#NEVERBEATEN.”\n“We feel like our program is a top-eight program now, and this is a game that would help us gauge what we need to do to and where we’re at to get into that top four,” Longacre said. “We want to compete and see where we’re at. …\n“These kids have done everything we’ve asked, and this coaching staff has worked so hard on making sure these kids are safe and following the protocols and doing everything right. The day before we play, it’s swept out from under us. It’s crushing.”\nFairdale-Owensboro is the third third-round playoff game in Kentucky to be canceled this week because of the COVID-19 pandemic, joining Covington Catholic-Madison Southern in Class 5A and Boyle County-Rowan County in Class 4A. Covington Catholic and Boyle County both advanced to the state semifinals as the result of positive COVID-19 cases within the Madison Southern and Rowan County programs.\nFairdale’s departure leaves Class 6A Male as the only JCPS program remaining in the playoffs. The Bulldogs are scheduled to host McCracken County on Friday.\nJason Frakes: 502-582-4046; jfrakes@courier-journal.com; Twitter: @kyhighs.}}
{{By Casey Leonard\nMonths ago, I was shocked to read reports that the Iowa City Community School District has been using small, plywood boxes to seclude students as a form of discipline. But I am even more disheartened by the district’s refusal to put an immediate end to the practice. This is unacceptable.\nWe should all be concerned about the incredible harm that is being done to the children who endure this perverse punishment. Some students who exhibit behavioral problems have already undergone trauma, and this embarrassing and dehumanizing penalty at the hands of their teachers, and often in front of their peers, only serves to further traumatize them. Our district’s teachers require and deserve more extensive training about adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) and trauma-informed care. Our students deserve safe, sensory spaces that help them calm down so that they can return to class to continue learning.\nIf it takes a village to raise a child, what kind of village are we, Iowa City? Are we a village that turns a blind eye to a practice that dehumanizes both students and teachers? Are we a village that would even defend such a practice? Or do we have enough courage to confront a troubling and unsettling truth and do what needs to be done to fix it? For the sake of all of our children and our own collective humanity, I hope it is the latter.\nThis article was originally published in Little Village issue 223.}}
{{Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello made this disclosure in Abuja while receiving the Kwapda’as Road Safety Demand (KRSD) Trust Fund in Abuja, assured that zebra crossings will be strategically placed across schools in the FCT to protect the children from road hazards.\nMalam Bello appealed to stakeholders in the FCT, including NGOs, individuals, government officials and institutions to ensure safety on the roads while calling on road users to ensure that road traffic regulations are obeyed.\nThe Minister directed the FCT Transportation and Education Secretaries to work together with the KRSD to ensure that zebra crossings and other road signs are placed across schools in the FCT to make the roads safer for the children and other road users. He also suggested that road marshals should be drafted to the schools during break, resumption or closing hours to ensure that road signs are obeyed.\nSpeaking earlier, President Kwapda’as Road Safety Demand Trust Fund, and a Justice of the Court Appeal, Justice Monica Dongban, said she was motivated to spearhead the advocacy for road safety in the country, when her son lost his life after he was struck by a hit-and-run driver.\nKnowing the pains of such a loss, she recalled, she would not want other parents and loved ones to go through similarly agony.\nThe group she disclosed has developed a software that shows clearly how roads around schools in the FCT could be made safer and more protective of the children.\nJustice Dongban appealed to the FCTA to assist in the production of more copies of the road safety materials for distribution to schools in the FCT in order to bolster the enlightenment campaign.\nThe President while lamenting the spate of reckless driving and speeding in built-up areas, however called for the overhaul of archaic road laws to make them more in tune with the current trend and provide for stiffer penalties against road traffic offenders.}}
{{DETROIT (WWJ) – A Wayne County Circuit Court judge has granted motions by the prosecution in the assault case against R&B artist Trey Songz.\nThe singer, whose real name is Tremaine Neverson, was present during a pre-trial hearing Tuesday when Judge Lawrence Talon handed down the ruling that will allow SnapChat video and still photography to be shown during the trial.\nSome photos allegedly show Neverson “giving the finger” to police.\nWWJ’s Mike Campbell reports Neverson, at least for the time being, opted to reject a plea deal offered by prosecutors. That does not mean he won’t at a later time decide to accept it.\nThe 32-year-old is charged with one count of assaulting a police officer and one count of aggravated assault after he allegedly punched a cop and started throwing things when his mic was cut off during a concert last year at Detroit’s Joe Louis Arena.\nThe alleged incident happened on Dec. 28 as Neverson was closing out “The Big Show at The Joe,” which also featured Chris Brown and Lil Yachty.\nPolice said the “Bottoms Up” singer became belligerent when someone told him his time was up at around 11:30 p.m. He taunted those in charge, repeatedly singing “Go on and do it, cut me off,” followed by, “A n**** cut me off, I’m going the f*** crazy. You understand?”\nWhen his microphone was shut off, prosecutors say Neverson went into a frenzy, throwing microphones and speakers across the stage and into the crowd.\nOfficers went on stage to calm situation down, but Neverson allegedly continued throwing things — one item striking someone in the head. According to prosecutors, when police approached Neverson to arrest him, the singer allegedly struck an officer with his fist, causing a concussion.\nNeverson remains free on a $25,000 bond awaiting his next court date which has not yet been set, according to the Wayne County Prosecutor’s Office.\nThe trial is scheduled for September 12, 2017, at 9 a.m.}}
{{1:10 Neighbors Say No To Gun Range Pause\n0:57 Firefighters battle fire that gutted NMB home\n0:53 Man killed in crash into church in NMB\n0:42 Surprise: International Drive Under Construction\n0:42 Boathouse brings country star Chris Lane for free show Friday\n1:35 Myrtle Beach weather forecast for 8.25\n0:53 Views of the Myrtle Beach Boardwalk\n0:47 Gator aid called in for alligator enjoying day at Myrtle Beach}}
{{The immigration debate has been hitting America's farms, which are losing millions in lost crops due to a shortage of agricultural migrant workers.\nPlay Facebook\nTwitter\nEmbed Farms Hit By Migrant Labor Crunch 2:35 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog}}
{{U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Rio Grande Valley Sector via AP | BDN U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Rio Grande Valley Sector via AP | BDN\nJune 20, 2018 10:46 am\nThe Trump administration’s immigration policy is a cruel mess — children are being taken from their parents at the border and held in camps, mothers and fathers who have lived in the U.S. for decades are being deported, refugees from Muslim countries are effectively banned from coming to the U.S. and officials plan to review the files of millions of naturalized citizens.\nThis is all horrid and unnecessary, especially because the administration’s obsession with limiting immigration is based on unfounded fears and lies.\nDuring campaign rallies and debates, Donald Trump painted a dark, scary picture of many immigrants coming to America. They were murders and rapists. “ Bad hombres,” as he called them.\nSuch claims fired up his base, but they are untrue.\nFirst-generation immigrants are much less likely to commit crimes than native-born Americans. Numerous studies have found that undocumented immigrants also commit crimes, both violent and non-violent, at much lower rates than Americans.\nU.S. crime rates have been dropping for decades. Overall, the violent crime rate in the United States was far lower in 2015, the most recent year for which the Department of Justice has comparable data, than it was in 1993.\nLikewise, Trump told the economically dispossessed that they were unemployed or underemployed because immigrants, often ones who he said came here illegally, were taking jobs away from hard-working Americans. Again, this fueled anger and anti-immigration sentiment, but it is not true.\nAmerican workers are much more likely to lose their job to a robot or China than immigrants. University of Maryland economists Katharine Abraham and Melissa Kearney calculated that trade with China cost the U.S. economy 2.65 million jobs from 1999 to 2016. Research shows that each robot takes the jobs of about 5.6 workers. More than 250,000 robots had been added to U.S. workplaces since 1999, so the economists calculated that robots cost the economy another 1.4 million workers.\nImmigration did not factor into the job loss, the economists found.\nIn fact, few Americans are going without jobs. The U.S. unemployment rate is under 4 percent, a number not seen since 2000. May marked the 92nd month of job gains, the longest string of such months on record.\nIn addition to skewing data to make immigrants look scary, the Trump administration is trying to hide research that shows they are significant contributors to our country. Last year, it suppressed a study by the Department of Health and Human Services showing that refugees contributed $63 billion more to government coffers, through federal, state and local taxes, than they cost over the past decade.\nThat comports with other reports that found immigrants are a net benefit to the economy, especially when it comes to starting businesses.\nStudies have found that Trump administration attempts to reduce legal immigration would leave Americans poorer by shrinking the country’s gross domestic product. Restricting immigration would also shrink the number of people who pay into retirement programs, including Social Security. This would make such programs less financially viable.\nAmerica is a country built on immigration — the first settlers came here to escape persecution. New immigrants are no different. Some are escaping violence and persecution in their home countries. Some are coming to America seeking work. All are coming here for a better life.\nCalling them “animals” and taking away their children, who are left to cry and scream and wonder when, if ever, they will see their families again, is inhumane.\nUnder any circumstances, the Trump administration’s immigration policies are mean spirited and wrong. They are even more egregious because they are based on lies about who is trying to come to America and why.\nFollow BDN Editorial & Opinion on Facebook for the latest opinions on the issues of the day in Maine.}}
{{The European Union has adopted a support package to Lebanon of €165 million ($191 million) to help the country cope with hosting Syrian refugees, AP said. In a statement on Wednesday to mark World Refugee Day, the EU said the package aims to support Lebanon’s public education and social assistance systems. Lebanon is home to a million Syrian refugees, who amount to nearly a quarter of the country’s population. Of the package $116 million were allocated to strengthen the public education system and guarantee that all children “have access to inclusive and quality education.” A further $60 million went to equally provide socio-economic support to vulnerable Lebanese citizens and Syrian refugees. Also, $15 million were earmarked to support Palestine refugees from Syria.}}
{{An ex-teacher will spend three years in prison for having sex with a student.\nFormer Springfield High School teacher Kyle McKinch was sentenced in court on Tuesday for having sex with a 15-year-old student.\nMcKinch admitted to the crime last year.\nThe teenager involved had asked the court not to impose the maximum sentence on McKinch.\nThe maximum sentence McKinch could have served was 20 years.\nFollow WTOL:\nDownload our app here.\nCopyright 2017 WTOL. All rights reserved.}}
{{Scripture will not be removed from school hours under a NSW Labor government, the party has decided.\nNSW Labor will not strike scripture from school hours in the public system if it takes power in the next election.\nFormer state education minister and Public Education Foundation chief executive Verity Firth urged her party colleagues to vote on a motion at the NSW Labor Conference that would ensure classroom time would not be used for scripture.\n"Faith plays an important role in education," Ms Firth told the conference on Sunday.\n"But it's a big leap to say every public school should quarantine 30 minutes to an hour each week."\nMs Firth said ethics classes, introduced as an alternative to scripture in 2011, were only available to 30 per cent of schools and parents were rarely aware of the secular option.\nShe said the motion would overturn an outdated partnership between church and state and promote inclusion.\nBut the opposition's education spokesman Jihad Dib said the motion would "throw the baby out with the bath water".\n"Ethics classes are an excellent alternative to scripture but this is not a better way," he said.\nMr Dib said the motion was too extreme and issues like the growing school maintenance backlog and dependence on demountable classrooms should take priority.\nHe urged the conference to vote down the motion and it was defeated.}}
{{WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The top Republican in the U.S. House of Representatives, Paul Ryan, said on Wednesday the House would vote on immigration legislation on Thursday that would end the practice of separating families who cross the U.S. border illegally.\nReporting by Susan Cornwell; Writing by Tim Ahmann; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama}}
{{Family Photo(ROCKAWAY, N.J.) — The family of a 12-year-old who committed suicide has filed a lawsuit against the young girl’s school district, claiming it failed to protect her from months of intense bullying.\nMallory Grossman, a sixth-grader at Copeland Middle School in Rockaway, New Jersey, killed herself on June 14, 2017, following months of “ongoing and systematic bullying” that her family said caused her to suffer at school, according to a lawsuit filed on Tuesday.\nHer parents, Dianne and Seth Grossman, filed a wrongful death suit against the Rockaway Township Board of Education and its staff, citing at least 14 bullying incidents they said drove her to kill herself.\nOne incident involved messages where the bullies allegedly asked her when she was going to kill herself, according to the suit. The Grossmans said they could provide evidence to prove that the school system could have prevented the alleged attacks.\nThe suit did not name any particular teachers, but it said staff at Copeland had failed to provide a safe and secure environment for students. They called on the school to change how it handles physical and online bullying.\nThe parents said they addressed the alleged bullying in a meeting with Mallory and officials at Copeland just before her death, saying their daughter was “suffering at the school,” but nothing changed, according to the suit.\nDianne Grossman said the bullies still haven’t been punished.\n“We know that the poor behavior and poor decisions these kids make has not changed,” she told New York ABC station WABC-TV. “They do not believe ultimately that they are responsible for it.”\n“Our family is forever changed because they chose not to put systems in place. They chose not to protect her, so I want other school systems to learn from this and to start making immediate changes within their buildings,” she added.\nRockaway’s Board of Education has previously called the Grossmans’ allegations “categorically false,” but declined to elaborate Tuesday, citing an ongoing investigation, according to local news site NJ.com.\nCopyright © 2018, ABC Radio. All rights reserved.}}
{{WINNIPEG — A former educational assistant in Winnipeg has been sentenced to 3 1/2 years behind bars for having a sexual relationship with a student.\nSheryl Dyck, who was 42 at the time, was arrested in 2015 after a seven-month relationship with the then 16-year-old.\nJustice Richard Saull says Dyck groomed the student by giving him money, food and drugs as their relationship became sexual.\nDyck cried and held her husband and children before she was taken into custody.\nDuring a sentencing hearing last week, the victim told court it has had a ripple effect on his life.\nHe stopped going to school and says every step forward seems like multiple steps back.}}
{{As superintendent, I cannot fully express how proud I am of you and your accomplishments! Earning your high school diploma is a great step toward securing a successful future. As I try and determine a meaningful message to convey, I immediately think of what I would have liked to hear 30 years ago, when I graduated. When I apply that lens, I cannot help but think of three specific lessons I have learned throughout my adult life that would have helped had I learned them earlier. Each lesson is captured brilliantly in "The Contrarian's Guide to Leadership," by Steven Sample.\nThe first idea I hope you apply to the new chapter in your life is to think "gray and free." Dr. Sample writes, "Most people are binary and instant in their judgments; they immediately categorize things as good or bad, true or false, black or white, friend or foe." I encourage you to suspend this inclination in order to see all sides of a situation, which will enable you to truly think for yourself. Do not take the easy path of placing new ideas into distinct categories. As a graduate of Moffat County High School, I hope you enthusiastically embrace new ideas!\nSecond, I want you to be able to be an "artful listener." Be an independent thinker, while, at the same time, seeking to understand the thinking of others. Listen to what others have to say about issues without surrendering your principles or judgment. Cultivate the skill of listening first and talking later, and you will be able to create a path for you to make the best decisions possible.\nFinally, remember, you "are what you read." Keep learning! Stay open to new ideas, but also re-read the books that you read at MCHS. They hold timeless truths about human nature. As you progress through different stages of life, you will find they take on new and deeper meaning and can be applied to your life. Commitment to this skill will serve you well and will set you apart from your peers.\nIt is my sincere wish that you are able to take all that you have learned as a student in Moffat County Schools and find fulfillment and happiness. I congratulate you and all of the people in your life who have contributed to the earning of your diploma. Travel far, travel wide, but always remember your home and that every day is a good day to be a Bulldog!\nSincerely,\nSuperintendent David Ulrich, Ed.D.}}
{{CLOSE\nBuy Photo Celeste Colantro, 17, was recognized at the Salinas Union High School District on Sept. 10, 2019. (Photo: Eduardo Cuevas)\nThe Monterey Fire Department's report on the medical emergency at Del Monte Beach Aug. 10 is brief, but Salinas High senior Celeste Colantro remembers it vividly: She used her CPR skills she learned in school to save a life.\nMonterey Fire dispatch confirmed the response time at 8:33 p.m. Aug. 10 near Surf Way and Tide Avenue. They had American Medical Response (AMR), a medical transportation service provider, sent to the scene.\nBut Colantro, 17, was going to the Monterey beach that evening with friends when she saw a crowd gathered around a young woman around her age. She could only see her arm sticking out and initially thought she fainted.\nColantro saw the group surrounding her wasn't properly administering compressions for CPR that would get her breathing back. She said she had a duty to respond to the emergency.\n"...I'm required to help, so I went," she said.\nSo, along with a man on-scene who was also certified to perform CPR, they resuscitated the woman until paramedics arrived.\nShe admitted nerves initially caused her to temporarily forget her training, but once she remembered, she sprang into action.\nColantro said as she walked away, she was nervous and unsure if she had been able to help the woman. But soon after, a paramedic gave her a thumbs up, congratulating her for saving a life.\nOn Tuesday night, she was recognized for her actions at the Salinas Union High School District board of trustees meeting.\nBen Hitchcock, clinical education services specialist and field paramedic for AMR, declined to provide more details on the woman's emergency, citing health confidentiality laws. But he said the patient's pulse had been unsustainable for her to live.\nIn the event of cardiac issues, one of the most important things is to start early and high quality CPR, according to Hitchcock. Information reviewed of the incident showed Colantro "did an excellent job," he said at the board of trustees meeting Tuesday night.\nBuy Photo Ivonne Glenn, director of Salinas Union High School District's Mission Trails ROP, honored Celeste Colantro, 17, on Sept. 10, 2019. (Photo: Eduardo Cuevas)\n"By the time the whole event was over, the patient was in a much better condition than when Celeste arrived," he said.\nColantro learned these skills through Salinas High's emergency medical response class at Mission Trails Regional Occupation Program (ROP).\nIn receiving her certification for CPR, she said it helped her in school to avoid being bored.\nHer mother, Jolette, says car rides changed as well; instead of having to ask how Colantro's day was, her daughter would tell her about what she learned in ROP.\n"She found something she likes," Jolette said. "Like everyday, she would get in the car and tell me something new."\nJolette, said her daughter has always tried to nurture others since she was young.\nColantro has also favored the medical field. She hopes to pursue a career as an emergency medical technician but doesn't want to limit herself. She also wants to continue college and possibly nursing, though doesn't want to limit herself.\n"I'm amazed that she just stepped up like that," Jolette, a Salinas Union staffer, said. "Like I knew she had it in her, but you know, when you hear that your baby saved someone..." her mother trailed off.\nContact reporter Eduardo Cuevas at ecuevas@thecalifornian.com or 831-269-9363. To support this kind of work, please subscribe.\nRead or Share this story: https://www.thecalifornian.com/story/news/2019/09/12/salinas-high-senior-saves-womans-life-recognized-school-board/2303374001/}}
{{Before I left on a three-week trip this summer, I had drinks with my brother Kudzai at Nacho Borracho. We sat at the bar. I ordered a glass of white wine; he had a Diet Coke. When the drinks were served, we clinked glasses in honor of his big achievement: He had just quit his low-paying job and was about to begin classes at Seattle University's law school. That day, Wednesday, June 12, he had...}}
{{NEW YORK — Pop singer Halsey has been added as a headliner to the 2018 Billboard Hot 100 Music Festival.\nThe two-day event takes place Aug. 18-19 at Northwell Health at Jones Beach Theater in Long Island, New York.\nHip-hop duo Rae Sremmurd and Halsey will headline the first day of the festival, where other performers include Cheat Codes, Kehlani, Lil Xan, Taylor Bennett and Gnash.\nRapper-singer Future and DJ Snake will headline day two, which also includes French Montana, Machine Gun Kelly, Daya, Justine Skye, Sabrina Carpenter and Jacquees.\nTwo-day passes, ranging from $80 to $275, are on sale. Single-day tickets go on sale June 29.\nThe Billboard Hot 100 Music Festival is in its fourth year.\n——–\nOnline: https://www.hot100fest.com}}
{{"I'm not going to close the door on intervening at a later date because I think it would be irresponsible for a federal government to close the door to intervention ever on a matter that does touch fundamental freedoms."\nBut for now, he says, the process is unfolding the way it should: as a provincial matter.\n"This is a discussion happening among Quebecers right now and their provincial government," he said.\n"The Charter of Rights and Freedoms exists so that citizens can challenge laws that they disagree with, that they feel are an unnecessary limitation on their fundamental rights and freedoms. That's why we have a charter and it's being used right now and it's being used by citizens in Quebec to contest, before the courts, this law that they feel is unfair and limiting their own rights and freedoms."\nMeanwhile, the Liberal leader hopes his platform pledges and his time and attention to Quebecers in the province today and tomorrow will convince progressive voters to abandon the NDP and instead vote Liberal.\nIn the morning, he unveiled a package of pledges that he said will boost small and medium-sized businesses.\nFor one, Trudeau announced that a re-elected Liberal government would eliminate the so-called "swipe fee" on sales taxes that merchants must pay to credit-card companies on every transaction.\nBusiness groups have been calling on governments to ban the charge and, according to an estimate by the Canadian Federation of Independent Business, the move could save merchants nearly $500 million per year.\n"Our owners of small and medium-sized businesses continue to be a powerful motor of growth for our communities," Trudeau said in French in Trois-Rivieres.\nHe credited smaller businesses with helping drive Canada's strong run of job creation in recent years.\nIf re-elected next month, Trudeau said, the Liberals will also reduce the cost of federal incorporation, remove all fees for business advisory services from agencies like the Business Development Bank of Canada, and create a voluntary payroll system to automate records for small businesses.\nA Liberal government would also launch a pilot project that would provide as much as $50,000 for up to 2,000 entrepreneurs to help them start businesses and give $250 to every new business to help them develop websites or e-commerce platforms.\nThe Liberals estimate the combined measures would cost the federal treasury $129 million next year, a number that would rise to $163 million in 2023-24.\nDan Kelly, CEO of the Canadian Federation of Independent Business, says he welcomes the pledges — especially the promise to eliminate the credit-card fees on sales taxes.\n"The Liberals are the first out with promises to small business and it's a fairly significant one," Kelly said in an interview.\n"Credit-card processing fees, for the last decade, have been a huge tailwind for small and medium-sized firms in Canada."\nHe added that, overall, smaller merchants used to pay among the highest credit-card fees in the world. The fees have started to come down a little bit in recent years.\nIn 2014, when the Harper Conservatives were in office, Visa and MasterCard voluntarily agreed to reduce their average effective fees to 1.5 per cent over five years, beginning in April 2015.\nThe Liberals announced last year that starting in 2020 the credit-card companies will trim their fees again to an average annual effective rate of 1.4 per cent.\nBy Teresa Wright, The Canadian Press}}
{{Image copyright Getty Images\nThe official World Cup song has been released ahead of the tournament kicking off in Russia next month.\nLive It Up has been produced by Diplo and features Nicky Jam, Will Smith, and Kosovar Albanian singer Era Istrefi.\nThe Fresh Prince alluded to the track earlier in the week with a post on Instagram. He follows in the footsteps of Pitbull, Jennifer Lopez and Shakira, who've been involved in the previous two World Cup songs.\nThe first match takes place on 14 June.\nWill Smith, who's put out a number of platinum and gold-selling albums, released a video showing the making of the song on his popular YouTube channel.\nIt shows reggaeton artist Nicky Jam asking for the Fresh Prince's verse to be made more prominent than his own.\n"Will's voice - I want it to stand out more. I want my voice to be a little bit lower. I just wanna hear Will mad, like 'one life!'" he says.\nBut while the song tries to have an inspirational message, as is customary, a number of fans don't seem to be feeling it.\nShakira's effort from 2010 in South Africa is still getting a lot of love though.\nThe official song is customarily performed ahead of the tournament's opening match - this year that's between Russia and Saudi Arabia.\nNicky Jam and co will be hoping it gets a better reception at the opening ceremony than it has so far on social media.\nFollow Newsbeat on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter.\nListen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 every weekday on BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra - if you miss us you can listen back here.}}
{{A Vancouver registered massage therapist has been charged with sexual assault.\nVancouver Police allege Bodhi Jones, an RMT working near West 7th Avenue and Burrard Street, assaulted female patients between September 2016 and March 2017.\nPolice say several women made the claims, and they are now appealing to any other victims to come forward.\nIn March 2017, the VPD’s Sex Crimes Unit began investigating allegations of sexual assaults against Jones. He has now been charged with four counts of sexual assault.\n“Sex assaults are some of the most challenging investigations, and solving them is a priority for the VPD,” said VPD spokesman Const. Jason Doucette, in a statement.\n“We are publicly releasing this information with the hope of providing those affected with a direct point of contact at the VPD. We want to hear from anyone who feels they may have been assaulted by Mr. Jones.”\nAnyone who may be affected is asked to contact the VPD Sex Crimes Unit at 604-717-0603 or Crime Stoppers at 1-800-222-8477.\nticrawford@postmedia.com}}
{{Education and Careers\nThis is a great opportunity to ensure our points are made and make a difference.\nPlease read the complete policy and give suggestions as it will help in making the education better.\nSome Concerns and Challenges:\nPoor quality of education.\nInappropriate curriculum\nLack of trained educators\nSchools are not compliant to the prescribed norms. etc\nPlease email your suggestions to nep.edu@gov.in by 31st July 2016\nPlease visit the site for more info on the policy.\nNational Policy on Education - Draft\n(received from K.H. MUSTAFA)}}
{{Nigerian Singer, Adekunle Gold says colleague, Simi is better than him as a song writer.\nAdekunle Gold disclosed this to fans at his album listening on Friday.\nAccording to him, Simi has a hand in every song he has released, adding that she must validate his songs before he puts it out.\n“Any song I write and Simi does not validate I don’t put out.\n“Every single I’ve released Simi has a hand in it. She is a better song writer than me and I say this all the time.\n“So, if she says no I agree, I have learnt so much from her.”\nMeanwhile, both artistes are yet to validate or deny reports of them dating.}}
{{Kanye West, the man who has spent the better part of this month setting the internet on fire with his controversial opinions on Donald Trump and slavery, has delivered on some of the promises he made fans on Twitter. Two of the albums that he tweeted release dates for have come out as scheduled, including Pusha-T's DAYTONA and his own 7-track project, Ye, which dropped Friday. Despite the album’s brevity, there is no shortage of content to be picked apart and thinkpiece’d. On his eighth studio album, West is very honest about his struggles with suicidal thoughts and bipolar disorder . He is dreading North West growing up to become a sexual being in the age of the internet. He also name drops a bunch of celebrities and their own scandals, like the accusations of sexual assault and misconduct hurled at Trump and Russell Simmons . His own in-laws are not immune to Yeezy’s commentary, and on the subject of the KarJenners, his thoughts aren’t that different from ours.}}
{{OTTAWA — Canadian diplomats have been granted consular access to Michael Spavor, one of two Canadians arrested in China earlier this week.\nIn a statement, Global Affairs says John McCallum, Canada’s ambassador to China, met with Spavor today.\nThe department says Canadian officials will assist Spavor and his family on an ongoing basis, but provided no other details.\nOn Friday, McCallum met with detainee Michael Kovrig, who is on a leave of absence from Global Affairs.\nSpavor and Kovrig were taken into custody days after Canadian authorities arrested leading senior Chinese executive Meng Wanzhou in Vancouver so she can be extradited to the U.S. to face fraud charges.\nGlobal Affairs says today that Canadian consular officials are also continuing to provide services to Kovrig and his family.}}
{{Arne Duncan, who led the U.S. Department of Education under former President Barack Obama, warned today that “harm would be done to children” should Gov. Andrew Cuomo and the State Legislature allow Mayor Bill de Blasio’s control over the city’s schools to lapse—and urged the feuding factions to forge some kind of agreement that will allow the system to continue.\nGov. Andrew Cuomo and Republican State Senate Majority Leader John Flanagan have both advanced proposals that would continue the city’s 15-year-old receivership of the municipal education system but include provisions lifting the cap on new charter schools in the five boroughs. Democratic Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie, who has close ties to teachers unions, has balked at the latter notion, leading to a game of brinksmanship as the program and the Albany legislative session expire this month.\nJoining de Blasio on a press call this afternoon, Duncan insisted that the mayoral control system has both led to improvements to local schools and created a rare kind of electoral accountability for educational performance.\n“If we were to lose mayoral control in New York, for whatever reason, I think it’s unquestionable that harm would be done to children, and that remains untenable,” he said. “So whatever the political issues are, I count on politicians of good will to find a way to resolve them.”\nDuncan gained a reputation as a supporter of charter schools both as Education Secretary and in his previous role as CEO of the Chicago Public School system. In response to a question from the Observer, he confessed he was unfamiliar with Flanagan and Cuomo’s proposals—but called for lawmakers to reach an accord on the issue.\n“There’s got to be some compromise, there’s got to be some middle ground there,” he said. “In politics, there’s always some compromise, I hope there’s a compromise there. But again, I go back to, just not do harm. And if you want to help some charters, some charters, and create some more good charter schools, I’m all for that.”\nThis stance actually put Duncan at odds with de Blasio, whose office organized the conference call with the media. The liberal Democratic mayor has lavishly praised Heastie, the holdout on the charter school issue.\nDe Blasio noted the current cap allows for almost two dozen new charter schools by 2019, and insisted that the city has allowed the existing privately run, publicly financed facilities to grow.\n“There’s ample room for additional charter schools over the next two years,” de Blasio said. “This is not something where Albany needs to intervene. If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it. There’s not a need on a numerical level to do anything for certainly the next year.”\n“The problem is not that there’s a ceiling right now that’s holding back the growth of charter schools,” he continued.\nDuncan’s policies at the federal level earned him enmity from both sides of the aisle. His support for charters outraged teachers unions, while his promotion of the Common Core curricula and testing standards irked conservatives.\nShould the governor, Assembly and State Senate fail to reach a consensus by the month’s end, control of the city education system would revert to the old community school boards—widely criticized for their uneven, inefficient and decentralized structure. This happened briefly when the first receivership ran out in 2009, and the then-Democratic State Senate initially refused to grant then-Mayor Michael Bloomberg an extension.\nBloomberg eventually won a five-year renewal of the program. De Blasio, with his fractious relationship with Cuomo and the State Senate Republicans, has never obtained more than a one-year continuation of mayoral control.}}
{{But final figures won’t be available until late October\nBy Jason Arndt\nEditor\nElectors in the Burlington Area School District adopted a tentative $22.5 million tax levy with a projected tax rate of $9.49 per $1,000 of equalized property value at Monday’s annual meeting.\nWhile both figures are an increase from last year, when the tax levy was about $20.9 million and tax rate was $9, District Business Manager Ruth Schenning said at the annual meeting they are based on several assumptions.\n“The final tax levy will not be set by the (Board of Education) until the end of October after we know the actual key pieces of data,” Schenning stated in a follow-up email.\nThose key pieces of data include the third Friday in September pupil count, state issuance of equalized property values on Oct. 1, and a final state aid calculation set for release two weeks later.\nSchenning said the district based calculations on reduction in state aid, which according to the $40 million budget presented at Monday’s meeting, showed an approximate 2 percent decrease.\nTo read the entire story see the Sept. 12 edition of the Burlington Standard Press.}}
{{Alberta’s finance minister slammed the federal equalization program Wednesday ahead of an Ottawa meeting where he said he’ll be calling for changes to balance the scales.\n“I’m going to be doing that as loudly as I can,” Minister Joe Ceci told reporters at the legislature. “The program has not worked for Alberta, even during the depths of our recession which started late 2014.”\nThat year, Alberta lost $6.5 billion in revenue from non-renewable resource royalties and received a meagre $251 million out of the federal Fiscal Stabilization Program, he said.\n“It just shows you how inadequate it was … Albertans have not seen the benefit of this program for decades while they have contributed mightily to the federal coffers in this country.”\nCeci said it’s not the first time he’s brought up the issue; he wrote a letter to federal Finance Minister Bill Morneau in December 2017.\nThe response from Morneau, Ceci said, was to keep the status quo.\n“That’s not good enough,” he said. “Every man, woman and child in this province contributes six times more than the closest province in terms of the per capita amount.”\nLast year, the federal program handed out about $18 billion to Prince Edward Island, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Quebec, Ontario and Manitoba. Quebec received $11 billion in total.\n“B.C., Saskatchewan, Alberta and Newfoundland all have contributed significantly,” Ceci said.\nCeci’s comments come on the heels of Saskatchewan Premier Scott Moe’s announcement of a proposal to change the equalization formula.\nThe plan is up for renewal in 2019.\n“We’ll compare notes I’m sure in advance of the Tuesday meeting,” Ceci said, adding he hasn’t yet reviewed Moe’s plan.\nCeci will be attending a June 26 finance ministers’ meeting in Ottawa, where he said his top priorities will include championing changes to equalization and advocating for the Trans Mountain pipeline.\n“We’re so pleased the federal government has stepped up on that but we need to see shovels in the ground,” he said.\ncclancy@postmedia.com\ntwitter.com/clareclancy}}
{{EXPAND DJ Chonz could pop up on channels like Electronik and Dance Trippin'. DJ Chonz/Youtube\nIt's been a while since music fans depended on TV channels like MTV to get their fix of new and favorite music. Today devices like Roku and Apple TV are becoming increasingly popular as people realize that the big cable companies are charging a hell of a lot of money for average-to-horrendous service. Yet with a decent Internet speed and a few choice subscriptions, you can get pretty much anything you want for less.\nThis writer has a Roku, and the great thing is that there are a ton of public-access and indie channels, showing all manner of freaky drive-in movies, exploitation and sci-fi mini-classics — plus lots and lots of music.\nMost of the music channels are free and many are created by members of the public; as a result, the quality varies dramatically. But hunt around a little, and you can find decent TV channels playing every genre of music, including those that make a big splash in Colorado. Here are some gems that can be found with a Roku channel search:\n8. Flashback 80s\nIt’s like watching MTV back in the glory days of MTV, minus the mouthy VJs. The great thing about this channel is that it will play any and all music from the decade, so you might be watching some new romantic band like Duran Duran, followed by a hair-metal anthem by Warrant, then some old-school hip-hop, then a punk track. The sound and picture quality is superb.\n7. Urban Nation\nThere seems to be an excessive amount of ads on this one, but once it’s flowing, it’s awesome. Old- and new-school R&B and rap picked perfectly to keep the mood consistent — this is a quality channel.\nThe Grateful Dead Wikicommons\n6. Dead Shows\nEssentially a jukebox for choosing from the huge amount of Grateful Dead videos and songs stored online. Deadheads will rejoice at the sheer volume on here, allowing them to listen to the same song recorded countless times at countless venues around the world. And we all know how popular the Dead still are around here.\n5. Dance Trippin’ / Electronik\nDance Trippin’ allows the viewer to pick from a massive collection of videos from clubs and events all over the world, of DJs of all electronic-music sub-genres. Want some dubstep? Help yourself. How about house? That’s there, too. Everything in between? Go for it. Meanwhile, Electronik is more of a classic channel in that the videos are streamed for you, no choices to be made. The benefit here is that you don’t have to keep picking up the remote and picking tracks, and the guys responsible for lining them up do a great job.\n4. Metal Mania\nComing at metal from the more extreme side of the genre, this is a channel that will help you let off a little steam. Lamb of God will sit comfortably alongside Emperor. Just select it and let it do the work for you.\nWillie Nelson would sit comfortably on Raw Country. Brandon Marshall\n3. Raw Country\nFrom the outlaws to the old-time bluegrass peeps, Raw Country plays anything that looks and feels dirty and dusty, as opposed to the CMA-esque, rhinestone-encrusted contemporary pop country.\n2. Pop Music\nAnother jukebox-style channel. There are actually tracks on here by any artist considered popular, so this is “pop music” in its purist form. Indie rock, electronic music, R&B — it’s all here. Naturally, you’ll also find the likes of Katy Perry and Lady Gaga.\n1. Check out these cheap live shows for a deal IRL.\nWhen you're done with free streaming of your music, here are a few options happening this week in Denver:\nJosh Blackburn / Willie & the Po Boys, Saturday, August 27, Platte River Bar and Grill, free.\nSummer Concert Series, Sunday, August 28, Jefferson Park, free.\nDiamond Empire Band, Monday, August 29, Walnut Room, free.}}
{{A Georgia school district is at the center of a controversy and it all surrounds a booster club holding a raffle to support some athletic programs. The problem is that the prize is a rifle.\nLynda Hudson showed CBS46 the firearm on Tuesday, which is making a lot of noise in the small town of Dawsonville.\n“It is a semi-auto, meaning that you have to pull the trigger every time you intend to fire it. One fire per trigger pull. It’s a semi-automatic rifle, 556 caliber,” Hudson said.\n“As I said before, it is a semi-automatic weapon. It is not an assault rifle,” Hudson said.\nShe and her family own the Appalachian Armory store in downtown Dawsonville and said they were approached by a school booster club about donating the weapon for a raffle.\n“Our opinion was an item to help them raise the most money possible would be an AR,” Hudson said.\nBut a raffle to help support the Dawson County soccer teams bothered some parents when it was noted that the drawing for the rifle would be held at the first varsity home game.\n“I wouldn’t have a weapon serve as my motivation to give money to the soccer team,” parent Susie Blum said.\nWe asked other residents if he thought it was appropriate and received a much different response.\n“Yes, I do because people can’t afford those. When you can’t afford them, why not take a chance with the raffle and get one,” resident Mark Z-man said.\nSome consider it the right to bear arms and in this case for a worthy cause.\n“I’m fixing to go pay $5 for that. It would be a great birthday present for one of my children that are now in their 30s,” Z-man said.\nThe Dawson County School District told CBS46 they did not sponsor or approve the raffle and it doesn’t appear they plan to prevent it from happening.\n“A person that wins this has to pass a background check. They have to go through the same hoops as someone coming in off the street into our store to buy it off the wall,” Hudson said.\nCBS46 asked the district to provide contact information to the booster club so that we could reach out to them on the issue, but that didn’t happen. That said, the school district said the raffle is legal.\nCopyright 2017 WGCL-TV (Meredith Corporation). All rights reserved.}}
{{2008 was truly, an iconic time for pop music. Feel free to @ me on this one, but I stand by it! There was post-Hannah Montana Miley Cyrus, Coldplay moments, ~boots with the fur~, and DANITY KANE. Please let me know just how many of these songs you had on ringtone rotation, and go forth and bop to these while reminiscing:}}
{{...\nThe Vancouver Sun adds that as a result of tighter federal lending rules, borrowers trying to buy million-dollar-plus properties in Vancouver's market "are increasingly taking out dangerous loans from shadow bankers in a fast-growing and poorly regulated financial market."\n...\n"These properties in Vancouver are so expensive that you need people either laundering money or loan fraud or people borrowing such large amounts of money that should never be allowed, in order to keep it going," MacBeth said. "If everyone is reporting their incomes honestly in Vancouver, there is no way that housing prices can stay where they are.}}
{{"I don't feel like this school, this particular charter, is salvageable," Smith said. "If they had done anything in three years to improve themselves, I would not feel this way."\nKairos Academy is a high school for girls, with an emphasis on leadership development for pregnant and parenting teens. The model incorporates daycare services and flexible schedules and currently enrolls roughly 90 students.\nBut the charter was projected to serve as many as 200 students, and the low enrollment numbers have put a strain on school budgets, which are based on per-pupil funding. Charter board members were also concerned about the professional qualifications of Kairos Academy's teaching faculty, which relies on adjunct and part-time instructors.\nFewer than 10 percent of Kairos students score proficiently on statewide tests, according to Utah Board of Education data, and the school's graduation rate is also in the single-digit percentage range.\n"You have done a really great job with the social programs piece," charter board vice-chairwoman DeLaina Tonks told school representatives. "The piece that I see that is missing, however, is the academic piece."\nBefore the vote to terminate the school, Utah Charter Network executive director Kim Frank spoke on behalf of Kairos Academy, offering her organization's services for mentoring and school coaching.\nShe said the school's demographics are particularly challenging, and the modest academic gains made by students are preferable to what would occur outside the school.\n"At least they're not in the streets," Frank said. "They're not drop-outs."\nFrank said Kairos Academy offers a different but necessary model for an undeserved group of young mothers and other academically-challenged girls.\n"Walking into that school and seeing those teen moms with their babies is about as heartwarming as it gets," she said. "They're in a safe, clean environment and they're happy there."\nBut charter board member Greg Haws questioned why Kairos Academy was considering school mentoring so late in the probation process, and only after a mentor had independently offered its services to the school.\n"I'm not here to judge the Franks' ability to assist the school," he said, "but the school's inability, or indifference, to the offer to help."\nCharter board member Dean Brockbank said he had hoped the school would be able to "right the ship," but school administrators showed no urgency responding to warnings and concerns.\n"This is probably the most difficult vote that I have made so far as a member of this board," Brockbank said.}}
{{Moms and dads in charge of their school drop-off and pick-up duty know that the daily chore can be a real drag.\nThere are long lines of traffic, inconvenient school-enforced rules, and even problematic parents who can make the ritual incredibly stressful.\nOne set of school parents from northern North Carolina, however, have been making drop-off a whole lot more enjoyable for their fellow moms and dads. According to Today, they've been parking a coffee truck in the lot for a much-needed dose of morning caffeine.\nA North Carolina couple who've launched a coffee truck called Caffe Ole have begun parking it at a school in North Carolina during drop-off time\nGabriel and Heather Rael send one of their two kids to The Expedition School, a charter school in Hillsborough.\nRecently, the couple launched a side business, debuting their Caffe Ole food truck in the area.\nBut while they'd meant to set up shop at spots around the county, it was a stroke of genius to add regular stops at their kids' school.\n'My husband was waiting in line recently to pick up our daughter and seeing all the cars just sitting there,' said Rael. 'He thought it would be nice to be able to get out of his car and get something to drink.\nSo exciting! Gabriel and Heahter Rael's daughter attends the Hillsborough charter school\n'He also remembered when I was a teacher and I always wanted a place where I could get a good cup of coffee, so hence the coffee truck at the school,' she added.\nSince they started parking in the back of the school lot last week — out of the way of the actual drop-off line — both teachers showing up for work and parents dropping kids off have been excited about the new development.\nMom Leigh Fickling, in particular, was thrilled when she noticed the truck, posting pictures online.\n'I thought I saw a food truck at the back of the morning car line,' she said of discovering it. 'We all know that car lines are places of order and regulation — don't get out of line, don't cut in line, keep your eyes ahead and maintain order — could it be? A food truck?'\nOn the menu: Parents and teachers have been thrilled with the ready caffiene\nSince then, she went on, he truck has totally changed her mornings. The day after first noticing it, Leigh arrived ten minutes earlier than usual to make a coffee stop, ordering herself a cafe mocha.\nThe truck also offers lattes, cappuccinos, red eyes, chai lattes, fruit smoothies, and frappés.}}
{{A schoolgirl has become an internet sensation with her rendition of Hallelujah which has been watched 3 million times.\nKayleigh Rogers, 10, performed Leonard's Cohen's classic hit for her Christmas concert at Killard House School in Donaghadee, Northern Ireland.\nShe has autism and ADHD, which results in learning delays with literacy and numeracy.\nMoving: Kayleigh Rogers, 10, performed Leonard's Cohen's classic hit for her Christmas concert at Killard House School in Donaghadee, Northern Ireland\nHer performance has been enjoyed by stunned viewers from the UK, Australia, America and Japan.\nHer headteacher Colin Millar told Newsbeat: 'She'd be a very quiet little girl, but when she sings, she just opens up.\n'She gets so much confidence from the singing. All my kids have talents, as well as barriers, and this is hers.'\nThousands have praised Kayleigh, who normally sings at her Presbyterian church, on social media.\nShe has autism and ADHD, which results in learning delays with literacy and numeracy\nHer performance with her school choir has been enjoyed by stunned viewers from the UK, Australia, America and Japan\nAnaximandro Doleo wrote: 'The sky is the limit, God bless!!!'\nDanielle Lippard Feldman said: 'Would love to be able to download this to my music library! Well done, Kaylee and choir. This is my new favorite rendition of this song. Merry Christmas!'\nWillie Beukes wrote simply: 'Very beautiful.'}}
{{The change in people’s mindset of choosing digital options over the traditional ones has played a huge role in creating the digital revolution\nBy Beas Dev Ralhan\nComputer and the Internet have captured everyone’s interest across geographies. The available digital options are moulding the consumer’s decisions around the globe. Computers are now helping scientists experiment with DNA and chromosomes in genetic engineering, robot-guided hands are operating in hospitals and the conventional newspapers and magazines are being replaced by e-papers and e-magazines. The change in people’s mindset of choosing digital options over the traditional ones has played a huge role in creating the digital revolution. And the education sector hasn’t remained untouched by this revolution.\nOne of the most talked about technology-driven, educational tools are the Massive Open Online Courses or MOOCs as they are popularly called. The MOOCs came into the limelight back in 2012, raising many eyebrows in the teaching fraternity concerning its effectiveness. Still it managed to cut a niche for itself partly because its pedagogy is akin to conventional instructional techniques and mainly due to its accessibility. Therefore, with the continuous increase in the popularity and hunger for technology, MOOCs have become the next big thing in distance education / higher learning.\nCurrent scenario and big player / data\nAccording to Class Central, a website that aggregates MOOC listings from providers around the world, Coursera was the leading distance-education provider, registering 17 million users in 2015, followed by FutureLearn which grew 275% in the same year with an estimated 3 million users. More than 500 universities are offering courses which are focused on fee-based credentials, including those leading to academic credit or full degrees. According to a report by Marketsandmarkets, the MOOCs industry is estimated to become $8.5 billion worth globally by 2020, growing from $1.83 billion today.\nCurrently, MOOCs have become well-defined online courses aimed at large-scale participation and open access via web. Major players like Udacity, Coursera and edX claim that though the enrollment worldwide is yet to be counted, it’s a well-known fact that more than a million people across the globe have viewed videos, submitted assignments and taken quizzes using these platforms.\nHow MOOCs are helping students\nMOOCs are easily available and accessible to anyone with Internet connectivity, resulting in millions of enrollments around the world. Courses offered by colleges and universities constitute videos, presentations, automated assessments, digital resources, peer-assessed assignments and peer discussions. Courses are available in fields like computer programming, mechanical engineering, agriculture, music, philosophy, literature and law making. MOOCs is a useful tool for career advancement.\nMajority of the courses available are self-paced and require discipline. Hence, there should be an urge of self-motivation and commitment in an individual aspiring to complete an online course. Furthermore, MOOCs on subjects like Science and Maths may require hands-on research while applying formulas, etc, giving a broader boulevard to distance learning. Acceptance of MOOCs is evolving continuously, benefitting many career-changers and lifelong learners, who desire to improve their knowledge and perspective throughout their lives.\nMOOCs impact in India\nMOOCs have become a gateway to those who do not have the opportunity or means to avail high-quality education. It gives millions of people access to higher education who are less privileged and in far flung areas and are, therefore, unable to afford conventional means of education. Moreover, MOOCs will help empower people and boost their career prospects in India.\nMOOCs have given Indian academics a better sense of creating a framework of lesson plan, short lectures and self-contained segments for student engagement. In 2014, the Ministry of Human Resource and Development also launched a MOOC platform SWAYAM (Study Webs of Active-Learning for Young Aspiring Minds) to provide standardised education to the aspirants.\nFurthermore, recognising the effectiveness of MOOCs, the government has proposed that the Union Budget FY17 should focus on providing training, education and entrepreneurship. Also, the budget includes the launch of the digital literacy scheme to reach 6 crore rural households in the coming three years.\nMOOCs in K–12\nThe K–12 sector has also started exploring the possibility of using open content, competency-based education, learning analytics and personalised instructions. The trend will continue, since the cost of the technology has significantly dropped and the access to the device and connectivity continues to increase. Pedagogically, K–12 education differs from higher education as teacher quality and classroom instructions are necessary in this sector. However, MOOCs can be of help in the K–12 sector by the following means:\nSchools can bridge the shortage of teacher through MOOCs platform, particularly in math and science.\nMOOCs platform can also provide numerous courses as per individual interests such as foreign language, history, nature or technology.\nMOOCs’ lectures and regular quizzes can be challenging and alluring to the classroom.\nBlended learning: Traditional classrooms are no longer motivating for students. However, a combination of both technology and classroom method can enhance learning. This is called blended learning.\nLastly, in a developing country like India, the majority of the population resides in rural areas where people lack access to quality education, infrastructure and education material. Learning through online mediums like MOOCs can be considered a cost-effective game changer in distance learning / higher education. Moreover, students can acquire knowledge, read, and connect with the like-minded people globally sitting in the comfort of their homes.\nThe author is a CEO & Co-founder of Next Education India Pvt Ltd}}
{{Community Content\nDerrick Gay, diversity and inclusion specialist, will speak at 7 p.m. Jan. 14 via Zoom.\nHosted by Inly School, Gay’s presentation, titled “The Double-Edged Sword: Reframing Diversity for the 21st Century,” is open to the public.\n“Diversity is now envisioned as an identity; something you ‘are’ or something you never can be,” said Gay. “This creates two distinct groups: the diverse group, who will benefit from diversity initiatives, and the ‘normal’ group for whom diversity is not often meaningful, personal, relevant or urgent. But, diversity isn’t about ‘the other’. We all have claim to and benefit from diversity. We need to understand this as we strive to foster a society in which, no matter who you are, where you came from, what you have, what you don’t have, no matter whom you love or whom you worship, or choose not to worship, you can, quite simply, flourish.”\n“Dr. Gay’s talk is coming at a critical time for our school, our town, the South Shore in general, as we – like the nation – grapple with how to confront the ugly and uncomfortable truths of racism,” says Francie Latour, Inly’s director of diversity, equity and inclusion. “I believe there are a lot of folks who want to dive into the work of anti-racism, but don’t know how. It is our hope that Dr. Gay’s visit can be a catalyst for people to move away from their racial comfort, set their intentions and make a commitment to begin the real and life-long work of undoing racism.”\n“We are strongly committed to education and that includes educating ourselves and our community on the many aspects of diversity, equity, inclusion and social justice. Derrick delivers his provocative and impactful messages with reason, clarity, energy and enthusiasm. He has a gift for meeting people where they are and helping them to see a path to becoming the person, the community, they want to be,” said Donna Milani Luther, head of Inly School.}}
{{Bus 5, start 6:25 a.m.: Middlebury Rd. at Cannon Ridge, Lake Winnemaug Rd. at 53, Middlebury at 1176, Hamilton Ave. at Hamilton Ln., Farmdale at 269, Barnes at 72, Bunker Hill Rd. at 1450, Lake Winnemaug Rd. at 53, Kimberly at 275, at Kimberly and Pondview, Davis at 2nd Evelyn, Melrose at Frances Ann, Frances Ann at Westview, Delhurst at stop sign, Davis at Park Rd., at Mosgrove Stadium, to Kaynor Tech.\nBus 20, start 6:40 a.m.: French St. at Gilbert, at Riverside, at Earle, at Tarbell, at Polk School driveway, Buckingham St. at Sylvan Lake Rd., at Carson, Mt. Fair at Vista, Buckingham at Ordinary Joe’s, Sunnyside at Shelter Hill, at Falls Ave., at Shaw Farm, to Kaynor Tech.\nBus 29, start 6:25 a.m.: Litchfield Rd. (Rte. 63) at 260, Hidden Pond at Bassett, Guernseytown at 1625, Wheeler Farm at Farm Circle, Platt at Westgate, Rte. 6 (Woodbury Rd.) at Hamilton Ln., at 199, Northfield at Woodpark, Porter at Northwest Dr., Echo Lake Rd. at Adams, to Kaynor Tech.}}
{{Attorney General Jeff Sessions is abusing migrant children by separating them from their families and placing them in detention centers, according to a letter signed by over 600 members of The United Methodist Church from all over the country.\nThe letter from The United Methodist Church was written on Monday and sent to the pastoral leadership at Sessions’ home church in Mobile, Ala., along with his current church in Arlington, Va. The formal complaint made against Sessions accuses him of child abuse for implementing the separation of migrant children from their families and placing them in “mass incarceration facilities with little to no structured educational or socio-emotional support.”\nIn the letter, Sessions is also accused of immorality for the use of violence against the children who attempted to stop the separation from their parents who are being deported. The document referred to the separation of children in the deportation process as kidnapping when many are seeking asylum from the dangerous places they are being sent back to.\nThe attorney general is also being charged with racial discrimination by hundreds of his fellow Methodist Church members. Examples of the racial discrimination that he has been accused of went beyond the immigration policies that he is enforcing. Sessions is being accused of stopping the investigations of police departments who have been charged with racial discrimination along with criminalizing racial justice activist groups like Black Lives Matter.\n“The American people are generous people who want our laws enforced. That is what we intend to do, and we ask Congress to be our partners in this effort.” – AG Sessions at the National Sheriffs’ Association Annual Conference pic.twitter.com/Kq7gffYHUn — Justice Department (@TheJusticeDept) June 18, 2018\nThe UMC letter also accuses Sessions of placing a focus on incarcerating Muslim or Latin people looking to come into the country and receive asylum. While Sessions previously tried to use the Bible to defend the separation of children and their parents during the deportation processes that he has enforced, the letter signed by a large number of clergy members is accusing him of the “dissemination of doctrines contrary to the standards of doctrine of the United Methodist Church.”\nLast week, Sessions cited Romans 13 to explain his department’s immigration policy that is separating children from their parents being deported and placing them in detention centers.\n“I would cite you to the Apostle Paul and his clear and wise command in Romans 13, to obey the laws of the government because God has ordained the government for his purposes,” Sessions said in a speech to law enforcement officers in Fort Wayne, Ind., according to The Washington Post. “Orderly and lawful processes are good in themselves. Consistent and fair application of the law is in itself a good and moral thing, and that protects the weak and protects the lawful.”\nHowever, hundreds in his denomination are calling Sessions out for misusing scripture. The letter written for accountability purposes says that Sessions’ scripture reference is used in “stark contrast to disciplinary commitments to supporting freedom of conscience and resistance to unjust laws.”\nWhile layman in the Methodist denomination does not typically have charges brought against them in this manner, Sessions’ unique position of power has motivated those in his denomination to take action. Through the processes of the United Methodist Church, it is possible that Sessions could face expulsion from the denomination.\nHowever, Rev. David Wright, a Pacific Northwest Conference elder and chaplain at the University of Puget Sound in Washington State who organized of the charges against Sessions, does not aim to get him booted from the church.\n“I hope his pastor can have a good conversation with him and come to a good resolution that helps him reclaim his values that many of us feel he’s violated as a Methodist,” Wright said, according to the UMC website. “I would look upon his being taken out of the denomination or leaving as a tragedy.”}}
{{Debmarine Namibia recently handed over a newly constructed Resource Centre to the Gobabis Project School worth N$250,000.\nThe Resource Centre investment is as a result of the relationship established between Debmarine Namibia and Gobabis Project School which commenced a few years ago when the company initially sponsored the prize-giving ceremony and educational materials.\nThe project is a primary school in the Epako Township on the outskirts of Gobabis which caters for learners whose families live below the breadline.\n“This investment further supports the call from Government, in particular the Ministry of Education’s invitation to the private sector, to partner with the Government through interventions such as the ‘Friends of Education’ initiative aimed at garnering support towards education, arts and culture.” Debmarine Namibia Senior Financial Manager, Willy Mertens said at the handover.\nThe Gobabis Project School commenced operations in 2012 with only 760 children and teaching undertaken in tents, today the school has 1418 children and 46 teachers. The school offers three language stream curriculum: Khoekhoegowab, English and Otjiherero; with elementary Agriculture as the main pre-vocational subject at senior level.\n“Government alone cannot provide all services and needs of our education system and therefore concerted effort from private sector stakeholders is greatly valued. Our school board management, staff, parents and learners hereby thank Debmarine Namibia for the much needed infrastructure which will ultimately serve as a library-cum-tuition room,” the Project School Principal, Tezee Katjiuanjo said in his acceptance speech.}}
{{The Morgan County School Board backed off plans to pursue a bond issue on the November 2016 ballot, now wanting more enrollment figures and pricing on moving portables to Mountain Green Elementary.\n“We are facing tremendous growth in the district, and we are trying to figure out how to handle it teacher-wise, student-wise and building-wise,” Board President Ken Durrant said.\nThe board is trying to pin down the proper time to approach voters for more money that would be used to build a new middle school on district-owned property on Trappers Loop as well as an addition to Morgan High School.\nSuperintendent Doug Jacobs noted that if a new middle school were constructed in Mountain Green, students from that end of the county wouldn’t need to be bussed to Morgan City until they hit ninth grade.\nThe board also discussed a new school building for just fifth and sixth graders, just seventh and eighth graders, or even only for grades kindergarten through three.\nWhatever the district decides to do, they are limited with how much money it can seek from county taxpayers: $34 million.\n“We could eat that up in a hurry,” Board Member Ron Blunck said.\nWith several school board seats set to be on the ballot in the next 10 months, seeking a bond is a politically-charge issue, school administrators noted.\n“More than half the board is up for re-election this year,” said Tim Wolff, Morgan Elementary School principal. “A bond is a decisive or intense conversation in this community.” Placing both school board seats and a bond on the same ballot would create “one-issue candidates,” Wolff said. “And you do much more than one issue,” he told the board at their Jan. 12 meeting.\n“Your board may be different next year,” Durrant said.\nWhenever the board decides to put the issue on the ballot, all agreed that the district must specifically tell voters beforehand how they intend to spend the money. Business Administrator D’Lynn Poll said a recent bond was passed in Davis County because of such specificity, while one was turned down in Park City because of a lack of specificity.\nThe board asked school principals to share with them their needs in the future. MGES Principal Heidi Andreason said her crystal ball has recently been more of a snow globe, “and there are a lot of flakes.”\nBoard Member Mark Farmer, who works in the finance industry, noted that some pundits have predicted an upcoming recession. Voters finding themselves in a new recession could have a sway on their votes, he noted.\nUpcoming recession or not, some board members say the time is ticking.\nSeveral board members noted that the district would need three years after a bond is passed before a school or addition could be opened to students. Delaying placement of the bond on the ballot this year will push that timeline out even more.\n“All of our schools will be full in three years,” Jacobs said.\n“In five years, we are going to be packed,” Board Member Ted Taylor said. If modular are placed at schools for the upcoming school year, the bond is passed after the November 2017 vote, then a new school would not be online until August of 2019 or January of 2020, Poll estimated.\nDurrant said that building must be done with an eye to future growth so as not to open the doors of a new school when that school would already be filled to capacity.\n“When we build, we need to build for the future, not open your door to a full school,” Durrant said.\nThe timing may be right, however, when the district pays off a substantial capital lease in 2018, Durrant noted.\nBy 2018, the district will pay off the capital lease that was used to finance improvements to the high school, freeing up a $400,000 annual payment. The bond used to construct Mountain Green Elementary will be paid off in 2025.\nUntil the district decides to ask the voters for more money, they need to focus on three priorities: moving portables, improving the fifth grade building at Morgan Middle School, and addressing boiler problems, Jacobs said.\n“We can continue to place portables as our facilities are deteriorating,” Jacobs said. “We need to have something that drives the bond.”\nAndreason said getting four portable on campus could help the school accommodate expected growth for up to three years. A portable would also be needed at MMS by next school year.\nIn the meantime, Poll said putting the bond off another year will give the district time to collect date, to see how many students through eighth grade would be living in Mountain Green when a new school opens. If there are not enough in Mountain Green, some may have to be bussed from Milton, an issue that could be a deciding factor for county voters.\n“The next two years are going to be critical to see what direction our growth is going to be going,” Poll noted. She is keeping a close eye on development in Mountain Green, the fastest growing area of the county. “We can get a better feel for where we are going to go.”\nPoll also wants time to collect quotes on relocating and remodeling portables the district already owns as compared to buying new portables at about $62,000 each.}}
{{Play\nBrexit itself may not have been the worst thing to come out of Britain’s exiting the European Union. A music video (above) by a singer named Peter Parsons in support of Brexit is decidedly worse.\nThe Brexit Song (We’ll Be Strong) is a spectacularly bad, and an impressively catchy addition to cringe-pop. In fact, its video may be one of the strongest of its genre – it’s been a while since somebody abused the green screen quite like this.\nParson’s mind-numbing, bouncy tune offers a succinct summary of Brexit:\n“Brexit, oh Brexit, we’re leaving the European single market,\nBrexit, oh Brexit, we’re on our own, we’re on our own,\nBrexit, oh Brexit, we’re leaving the European single market,\nBrexit, oh Brexit, we’re on our own, we’re on our own.\nWe’re going round in circles, don’t know where to go,\nBut we don’t need nobody else to trade around the world.”\nClad in Union Jack outfits – yes, in the plural – with an impressive collection of hats and “locations”, Parsons celebrates the UK’s departure from EU. “Cause we’re leaving, ‘cause we’re leaving,” he exuberantly sings, as the video suddenly transforms into an iconic dance anthem.\nThe video went viral in Britain, and now across the world, probably because of its catchy music and its breathtaking montage. Good luck getting the chorus out of your mind.\nThis isn’t the only Brexit song, however. Here are some older ones:\nPlay\nPlay}}
{{Board of Education Calendar of Events\nSeptember 16 – 22, 2019\nThursday, September 19\n2:30 p.m.\nLegislative Committee Meeting (Swann Room, 712 N. Eugene St., Greensboro)\n4:30 p.m.\nCelebration of Excellence (Grimsley High School, 801 N. Josephine Boyd St., Greensboro)\nUpcoming Meetings & Events\nThursday, September 26\n6 p.m.\nBoard of Education Work Session (712 N. Eugene St., Greensboro)\nTuesday, October 1\n8:30 a.m.\nHigh Point Central High School Building Advisory Team Meeting (Media Center, 801 Ferndale Blvd., High Point)\nThursday, October 10\n6 p.m.\nBoard of Education Meeting (Board Room, 712 N. Eugene St., Greensboro)\nSaturday, October 12\n8 a.m.\nBoard of Education Retreat (TBD)\nThank you,\n[Email Signature]\nThis e-mail is for the sole use of the individual for whom it is intended. If you are neither the intended recipient, nor agent responsible for delivering this e-mail to the intended recipient, any disclosure, retransmission, copying, or taking action in reliance on this information is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please notify the person transmitting the information immediately. All e-mail correspondence to and from this e-mail address may be subject to NC Public Records Law which result in monitoring and disclosure to third parties, including law enforcement. In compliance with federal laws, Guilford County Schools administers all educational programs, employment activities and admissions without discrimination because of race, religion, national or ethnic origin, color, age, military service, disability or gender, except where exemption is appropriate and allowed by law. Refer to the Board of Education’s Discrimination Free Environment Policy AC for a complete statement. Inquiries or complaints should be directed to the Guilford County Schools Compliance Officer, 120 Franklin Boulevard, Greensboro, NC 27401; 336-370-2323}}
{{A scare near an Arkansas school Friday turned out to be nothing more than a man carrying toys for his children, according to police.\nIn a statement, the West Fork Police Department said a woman driving by West Fork School District buildings off Phillips Street notified police of a man carrying a Harp’s Foods bag containing what she believed to be weapons.\nAuthorities responded and shortly after discovered that the man did have guns inside the bag as he walked home — Big Buck Hunter toy guns he had just bought as gifts.\nSchools in West Fork, which is about 11 miles south of Fayetteville in Washington County, were placed on a precautionary lockdown before police found the man and checked him, police said.}}
{{All About the Children is a blog by Bradenton Herald education reporter Meghin Delaney sharing news and tidbits from the schools and students in the Manatee County School District. Got an achievement or event to share? Email Meghin at mdelaney@bradenton.com.}}
{{George and Amal Clooney are adding their support to help immigrant children who have been taken away from their families and held at the U.S. southern border under the Trump zero-tolerance policy.\nThe couple and the Clooney Foundation for Justice have donated $100,000 to the Young Center for Immigrant Children’s Rights “to help protect and promote the best interests of immigrant children in the United States who have been separated from their families,” the organization said in a press release.\nThe Clooneys said they thought of their own children, twins Ella and Alexander, and how they would react to the situation at the border.\n“At some point in the future our children will ask us: is it true, did our country really take babies from their parents and put them in detention centers? And when we answer yes, they’ll ask us what we did about it. What we said. Where we stood. We can’t change this Administration’s policy but we can help defend the victims of it. Today, the Clooney Foundation for Justice will donate $100,000 to the Young Center for Immigrant Children’s Rights.”\nMaria Woltjen, Executive Director, Young Center for Immigrant Children’s Rights at the University of Chicago thanked the Clooneys in response. “This Administration’s policy disregards international law and basic principles of human decency,” Woltjen said. “To treat children in such a cruel manner not only violates their legal rights but also their basic needs. We are doing everything we can to advocate on behalf of the thousands of children who are separated and alone, and we are grateful for the generous support of George and Amal Clooney and the Clooney Foundation for Justice — it could not be more vital at this time.”\nAccording to its website, The Clooney Foundation for Justice was established to advance justice in courtrooms, classrooms and communities around the world.}}
{{Calgary\nIN the boreal forests and on the remote prairies of Alberta, a handful of firms are running pilot projects they hope will end a two-decade drought in innovation and stem the exodus of top global energy firms from Canada's oil sands.\nThey are searching for a breakthrough}}
{{CEOs of funded startups tend to be a well-educated bunch, at least when it comes to university degrees.\nYes, it’s true college dropouts like Mark Zuckerberg and Bill Gates can still do well. But Crunchbase data shows that most startup chief executives have an advanced degree, commonly from a well-known and prestigious university.\nEarlier this month, Crunchbase News looked at U.S. universities with strong track records for graduating future CEOs of funded companies. This unearthed some findings that, while interesting, were not especially surprising. Stanford and Harvard topped the list, and graduates of top-ranked business schools were particularly well-represented.\nIn this next installment of our CEO series, we narrowed the data set. Specifically, we looked at CEOs of U.S. companies funded in the past three years that have raised at least $100 million in total venture financing. Our intent was to see whether educational backgrounds of unicorn and near-unicorn leaders differ markedly from the broad startup CEO population.\nSort of, but not really\nHere’s the broad takeaway of our analysis: Most CEOs of well-funded startups do have degrees from prestigious universities, and there are a lot of Harvard and Stanford grads. However, chief executives of the companies in our current data set are, educationally speaking, a pretty diverse bunch with degrees from multiple continents and all regions of the U.S.\nIn total, our data set includes 193 private U.S. companies that raised $100 million or more and closed a VC round in the past three years. In the chart below, we look at the universities most commonly attended by their CEOs:1\nThe rankings aren’t hugely different from the broader population of funded U.S. startups. In that data set, we also found Harvard and Stanford vying for the top slots, followed mostly by Ivy League schools and major research universities.\nFor heavily funded startups, we also found a high proportion of business school degrees. All of the University of Pennsylvania alum on the list attended its Wharton School of Business. More than half of Harvard-affiliated grads attended its business school. MBAs were a popular credential among other schools on the list that offer the degree.\nWhere the most heavily funded startup CEOs studied\nWhen it comes to the most heavily funded startups, the degree mix gets quirkier. That makes sense, given that we looked at just 20 companies.\nIn the chart below, we look at alumni affiliations for CEOs of these companies, all of which have raised hundreds of millions or billions in venture and growth financing:\nOne surprise finding from the U.S. startup data set was the prevalence of Canadian university grads. Three CEOs on the list are alums of the University of Waterloo . Others attended multiple well-known universities. The list also offers fresh proof that it’s not necessary to graduate from college to raise billions. WeWork CEO Adam Neumann just finished his degree last year, 15 years after he started. That didn’t stop the co-working giant from securing more than $7 billion in venture and growth financing.}}
{{A major music festival in Spain had to be evacuated Saturday night after the stage became engulfed in flames.\nAccording to a statement from concert organizers, the stage at the Tomorrowland UNITE festival in Barcelona "caught fire due to a technical malfunction."\nOrganizers credited staff and authorities for the safe evacuation of approximately 22,000 individuals who were attending the concert at the time.\nSeveral social media posts show the side of the stage billowing with smoke and flame after a pyrotechnics display seemingly went wrong before DJ Steve Aoki was scheduled to perform.\nNo injuries were reported.}}
{{In this May 14, 2018, photo, teacher and music therapist Erin Singh plays guitar with students in the brand new JP Lord School in Omaha, Neb. The school, which serves severely disabled students for Omaha Public Schools was moved from a much smaller and more institutional building. Omaha World-Herald via AP Kent Sievers}}
{{COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (AP) - Four Colorado churches formed a coalition to protect immigrants facing deportation and assist them with the legal process.\nThe Gazette reports (http://bit.ly/2rzlXZs ) the alliance, known as the Colorado Springs Sanctuary Coalition, announced its formation Monday and its intent to provide a facility where immigrants would be able to live while shielded from Immigration and Customs Enforcement.\nThe All Souls Unitarian Universalist Church will serve as the coalition’s host sanctuary church, with First Congregational Church, First United Methodist Church and the Colorado Springs Friends Meeting making up the rest of the alliance.\nThe members of the coalition are joining a national cause known as the Sanctuary Movement. The movement is growing in response to the expansion by President Donald Trump’s administration of criteria for deporting immigrants living in the country illegally.}}
{{Charles E. Richardson is a Knight Fellow at Duke University and the University of Maryland. He's taken courses in journalism and not-for-profit governance at Harvard. He has served on several civic boards and is the past state chairman for Kids Voting - Georgia and former chairman of the board for the Professional Association of Georgia Educators Foundation.}}
{{UK police have arrested a suspected hacker for stealing unreleased music from recording artists and trying to sell the looted files for cryptocurrency.\nThe 19-year-old suspect allegedly targeted "award-winning international superstars" by breaking into their websites and cloud-based accounts to access recorded music, the City of London Police said in a Friday statement.\nThe arrest was based on a tip from the Manhattan District Attorney's office in New York, which has been investigating the hacks based on referrals from the artists' management companies. The 19-year-old suspect was not named, but he was arrested in Ipswich on suspicion of committing copyright infringement and computer misuse crimes.\n"Today's action marks a significant point in our investigation into the individuals responsible for stealing music and selling it on illegal streaming websites, worldwide," Detective Inspector Nick Court said in a statement.\nNone of the artists were named, but the arrest occurs after Radiohead said in June that a hacker stole unreleased music from singer Thom Yorke's minidisc archive. However, in this case, the hacker threatened to release the music files unless Radiohead paid $150,000. In response, the band decided to release and sell the music, saying the recordings were "only tangentially interesting."\nHow the hacker gained access to the Radiohead files is unclear. According to Pitchfork, it may have involved someone breaching a third party who was archiving Radiohead's music on the band's behalf. The stolen files were then possibly traded on the digital black market before reaching a collector who tried to extort Radiohead.\nThe Manhattan D.A.'s office told PCMag: "Unfortunately since this case is being prosecuted in the UK, we are bound by their laws and practices pertaining to ongoing investigations and pending cases, so the information in the press release is the extent of what we can provide at this point." The City of London Police declined to comment on the case.}}
{{Young Rohingya refugees have been filmed playing on a newly-built makeshift Ferris wheel in their camp in Bangladesh.\nFootage shared online by British Red Cross aid worker Julia Brothwell shows a line of children awaiting their turn in front of one of the wooden structures in the Balukhali camp.\nThe camp is one of many vast sites where hundreds of thousands of Rohingya Muslims are living, after fleeing their homes in Myanmar to escape the violence which the UN has called “a textbook example of ethnic cleansing”.\n“They said the community had built them, but we didn’t get a sense of who exactly,” Ms Brothwell, 54, told the Press Association. “Between us, I think we counted six Ferris wheels in total but there may be more.\n“There was a massive queue of children waiting for their turn.\n“It was just such a startling thing to see, there had been nothing like that beforehand and you don’t usually see the children playing a huge amount.”\nMs Brothwell, from Morecambe, Lancashire, said although schools run in the morning there is generally little for children to do in the camps.\nDigging trenches and putting down sandbags to direct water away from homes for the next time it rains in Balukhali camp. @BritishRedCross @BDRCS1 @IFRCAsiaPacific provide the materials and men from the community do the work. pic.twitter.com/UVtv1THuUp — Julia Brothwell (@Poshfrock) June 19, 2018\n“I think these videos show people are resilient despite their circumstances,” she said. “And it doesn’t take something very sophisticated to give a child some enjoyment.\n“We have to look at providing more stimulation like this in the camps to keep children engaged and ward off any depression or trauma they might be feeling, as well as their parents or grandparents living in these circumstances.”\nThe wheels seen by Ms Brothwell and colleagues were in Balukhali-2, an area of the camp set up quickly at the end of last year, when 600,000 refugees moved in to the area, so they have appeared within a matter of six months.\nMen carry materials across a bridge\nConstruction work in Balukhali\nThe British Red Cross, who Ms Brothwell has worked with for 24 years, is one of many charities and actors working in the area to alleviate the situation.\n“We do hygiene promotion in schools, teaching children how to brush their teeth, clip their nails and wash their hands properly,” she said. “Sometimes it’s as simple as removing human waste from houses and treating it.\n“We don’t know how long people will be living in the camps so we have to plan for the long term and hope we have the resources to keep going.\n“That would be my main message, we really do need all the help we can get to continue doing our work.”\nThis stretch of river just down from the @BritishRedCross @BDRCS1 @IFRCAsiaPacific treatment site in Camp 18 Balukhali. Work starts tomorrow to build a 180m retaining wall to prevent further erosion and protect homes, latrines and washrooms. pic.twitter.com/ZJVayKWMVE — Julia Brothwell (@Poshfrock) June 19, 2018\nTo donate to the British Red Cross, visit their website.}}
{{Natasha Wodak began her week with a run at Vancouver's fascinating Stanley Park, feeling "incredibly grateful" to be healthy and happy nearly 18 months after right toe surgery left the distance runner wondering if she would make a comeback to the competitive circuit.\nWhile excited at the prospect of attaining a personal-best road race time at the Ottawa 10K on Saturday (6:30 p.m. ET), Wodak appeared just as proud to discuss one of her good friends.\n"Do you know Jane Cullis?" she said over the phone. Cullis is a pancreatic cancer researcher at New York University, where she is attempting to discover a way for doctors to detect the disease earlier.\n"One day she's going to cure it, that Jane," Wodak added, with a laugh, while also mentioning her sister-in-law Veronica's mother, who passed away in recent years from pancreatic cancer. "It's so hard to diagnose and beat." Wodak's grandfather also passed about 10 years ago from bladder cancer.\nOn Saturday, Wodak and three others will run to raise money for the Canadian Cancer Society during the Dream Team Challenge as part of the Ottawa 10K. Camp Misquah, The Ottawa Hospital and Make-A-Wish of Eastern Ontario were the other local charities that each drafted four elite runners. The charities could win up to $3,000 based on their team's performance, while the 16 athletes will each win prize money, ranging from $1,000 to $10,000, based on their placing among that group.\n5th at Commonwealth Games\nWodak, who is nearing her 10th appearance at the Ottawa 10K, is pleased that race organizers are trying to involved the community and raise awareness for charities.\n"I feel very lucky to have been selected, especially by the Canadian Cancer Society," said the 36-year-old from Surrey, B.C. "I haven't had a mother, father or sibling pass away from cancer but I know so many people that have. I think of those people and all the cancer survivors who have gained from charity events."\nThe two-time Canadian cross-country champion finished fifth in the women's 10,000 metres at the Commonwealth Games last month in Australia, remaining in contention until the end and clocking a season-best time of 31 minutes 50.18 seconds.\nShould the weather in Ottawa co-operate, the 2016 Olympian said there would be an opportunity to eclipse her 31:59 PB from the 2015 Ottawa 10K. Wodak set a Canadian track record of 31:41.59 for the 10,000 three weeks earlier in Stanford, Calif.\nWodak was seventh overall a year ago in the Ottawa 10K and second to Rachel Cliff among Canadians in 33:55. But running with a confidence under coach and old family friend Lynn Kanuka that she didn't have previously, Wodak believes she can find the next level. Kanuka won Olympic bronze in the 3,000 at the 1984 Summer Games in Los Angeles.\nEsselink gears up for 10,000m title defence\n"Lynn knows first-hand how to race a championship race. We're on the same page and have a lot of fun, and that's the best part," said Wodak, who will run the 5,000 at the Portland Track Festival on June 10 and Toronto Waterfront 10K on June 16.\nMeanwhile, Evan Esselink will make his Ottawa 10K debut after missing the Mt. SAC Relays and Payton Jordan Invitational in April and early May, respectively, with bronchitis that the 26-year-old fought through at the world half marathon championships in Spain on March 24.\nSaturday's race will serve as preparation for Esselink's Canadian 10,000 title defence June 13 on the Alumni Stadium track at the Speed River Inferno in Guelph, Ont., where the University of Indiana graduate trains with coach Dave Scott-Thomas.\n"I've had about seven workouts since I was sick," Esselink said Monday, adding he has run 90 miles each of the past two weeks after missing three weeks of training while sick and believes there is no reason from a fitness standpoint why he couldn't "do something big" in Ottawa.\nOn Jan. 14, Esselink set a PB of one minute 4.08 seconds in placing 35th overall at the Houston Half Marathon. He also finished fourth in 31:00.4 last fall in the senior men's open 10K at the Canadian cross-country championships and clocked 14:23.1 for second at the 2017 Canadian 5K Road Race Championships in Toronto.\nEsselink's goal for Saturday, regardless of the weather conditions, is to be top Canadian in the men's race. Three-time Olympian Eric Gillis of Antigonish, N.S., held that title a year ago with a 30:09 clocking.\nStory Continues}}
{{Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Phones in schools - a useful tool, or a waste of everyone's time? (Stock image)\nSchools should ban mobile phones from the classroom, the culture secretary has said.\nMatt Hancock, writing in the Telegraph, said he admired schools who did not allow them, adding that more heads should "follow their lead".\nIn a letter to the same paper, a group of Conservative MPs said mobiles should be confiscated at the school gates.\nAt the moment, schools are free to set their own rules. So what are the options?\nNo phones here\nMichaela Community School in Wembley has implemented a blanket ban - if a phone is seen or heard, it will be confiscated.\nHead teacher Katharine Birbalsingh says: "We believe strongly that children should not have phones in school.\n"We think they are extremely distracting for children and they interrupt their concentration, they interrupt their ability to think."\nMedia playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Katharine Birbalsingh discussing her Tory conference speech in 2010\nHowever, they don't actually ban them from the premises, as some parents want to be able to contact their children after school.\n"If they had one in their bag, but if we never see them or hear them, then you don't have any problems.\n"We rarely see a phone. No child would ever deliberately take their phone out here.\n"They know the expectation and they agree with it. They like the fact they have freedom from the world of social media."\n'The ban stops bullying'\nIt is a similar policy at Reepham High School and College in Norfolk. In September, it introduced a ban on phones - although they are allowed to be hidden away in school bags.\nHead teacher Timothy Gibbs told 5 Live: "The reason we wanted to ban them originally is there were lots of little things going on in school during the day that we didn't like - some in lessons, and some out of lessons.\n"So now at school, we have less incidents of little things like a phone vibrating during a lesson which disturbs the flow of the lesson."\nImage copyright PA Image caption "I admire head teachers who take a firm approach and do not allow mobiles to be used during the school day," says Culture Secretary Matt Hancock\nMr Gibbs added: "We don't find students now at lunchtime standing in groups, looking at screens, not really interacting with each other.\n"We actually find there has been a decline in bullying between students during school hours."\nHowever, the school does allow them to be used in the classroom if "under explicit instruction by a teacher".\nBreak-time only\nAccording to the Department for Education, 95% of schools in England control the use of phones in some way.\nThomas Tallis School, a comprehensive in Greenwich, south-east London, allows pupils to use their phones during breaks.\nHead teacher Carolyn Roberts says: "We believe that one of the things you do in schools is give children the skills for adult life - and one of the things adults have to know is how to manage and moderate their mobile phone use.\n"Our policy is that mobile phones are allowed until they become a nuisance and then if they get in the way of learning we confiscate them."\nMs Roberts also questions how feasible a total ban would be.\n"We have over 1,900 students here," she says.\n"To prevent any mobile phone coming into the building we would have to search every single one of them every single day."\nWhat are others saying?\nA 2015 study by the London School of Economics found that banning phones had the effect of giving pupils an extra week's education over the course of an academic year.\nResearchers looked at schools in four English cities and found test scores increased by more than 6% in those which banned phones.\nA Department for Education spokesperson said: "Head teachers already, of course, have the power to ban mobile phones in schools and we support their right to do so."\nImage copyright Getty Images Image caption France is banning phones in schools - after a campaign pledge from President Emmanuel Macron\nLast week the headmaster of Eton, Simon Henderson, said schools and parents should not be scared to take smartphones away from teenagers.\nBut Jill Hodges, the founder of Fire Tech, which runs technology courses aimed at nine to 17-year-olds, says phones can also be good educational tools.\n"There are tonnes of schools that we see where kids are using technology in good ways," she says.\n"They're being creative, they're able to collaborate and communicate and share ideas they have."\nPaul Howard-Jones, a professor of neuroscience and education at the University of Bristol, says schools have an important role in helping pupils learn when to use their phones.\nHe says: "If school and education is about preparing us for that world, then learning how to use your mobile phone - when it's appropriate, when it's not appropriate, is a very important part of that.\n"Children need to learn to self-regulate. They're not being given the opportunity to do that if their phones are taken away at the start of the day."\nThe UK is not the only country debating the issue. French President Emmanuel Macron included a pledge to enforce a ban at schools during his campaign.\nIt is due to come into force in September. Critics, however, have called it a publicity stunt.}}
{{'Tell the truth like I did': Ex On The Beach's Jemma Lucy lashes out at Scotty T after he claims she lied about sleeping with him She burst into tears}}
{{* TSX rises 60.08 points, or 0.48 percent, to 12,628.85 * Five of the 10 main index sectors advance * RBC jump has biggest positive impact on index By John Tilak TORONTO, July 18 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index rose to its highest level in 1-1/2 months on Thursday as investors took heart from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's comments that the U.S. central bank will adopt a flexible approach in dialing back its stimulus program. Strong earnings reports from major U.S. companies also boosted sentiment as investors trained their sights on the Canadian earnings season, which kicks into high gear next week. Led by gains in financial and energy stocks, the Toronto market's Fed-inspired rally spilled over into a second session as investors remained fixated on the Fed chairman's congressional testimony. Bernanke said on Wednesday that the Fed expects to start scaling back its bond purchases later this year but left open the option of changing that plan if the economic outlook shifts. "The markets have been reassured for now by comments from Bernanke," said Youssef Zohny, portfolio manager at Stenner Investment Partners, a unit of Richardson GMP. "(But) we definitely see increased volatility in the markets over the next couple of months as investors become more sensitive to economic data and try to factor in monetary policy." The Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index closed up 60.08 points, or 0.48 percent, at 12,628.85, after rising as high as 12,680.23, its highest point since June 3. "The Fed has reassured markets they're not going to take the training wheels off the economy until it's more than ready," said Stan Wong, a portfolio manager at Macquarie Private Wealth. "It's soothing the markets that the withdrawal of quantitative easing is more data-dependent and not calendar-dependent." "The odds of a taper in September might have gone down a little bit," he added. "It's not a set schedule. It's just going to be based on where the economy goes from here." Five of the 10 main sectors on the index closed higher. Financials, the index's most heavily weighted sector, gained 1.3 percent. Royal Bank of Canada, the country's biggest lender, jumped 1.5 percent to C$64.78 and had the biggest positive influence on the index. Toronto-Dominion Bank was up 1.5 percent at C$87.48. Energy shares climbed 0.8 percent, reflecting gains in the price of oil. In the group, Canadian Natural Resources Ltd added 1.7 percent to C$33.92, and EnCana Corp rose 1.3 percent to C$18.04. The materials sector, which includes mining stocks, was hurt by declines in gold mining stocks, which had a volatile session. Goldcorp Inc was down 1 percent at C$27.34. While Wong does not recommend investing in the gold sector long term, he predicted another 5 percent jump in the price of the precious metal. "You'll see an oversold bounce in gold," he said. "You're also getting into a positive season for gold." Fed Chairman Bernanke also offered his thoughts on the commodity. "Nobody really understands gold prices," he told a Senate panel on Thursday. "And I don't pretend to understand them either."}}
{{Thirty-year-old Gavinder Grewal died in what police believe was a targeted incident\nThe Integrated Homicide Investigation Team has been deployed to an apartment in North Vancouver where a man was found dead.\nIn a statement Saturday, IHIT said 30-year-old Gavinder Grewal was found dead in the 1500 block of Fern Street.\nHis death is believed to be targeted.\ntwitter.com\nDocuments show that Grewal was known to police and associated to gang activity – specifically in Abbotsford.\nIn 2015, Abbotsford police issued a warning about Grewal, as well as two other men believed to be involved in the Townline Hill conflict.\nAt the time, police said Grewal posed a risk of “significant harm to the safety of the community and anyone who may associate with them.”\n“There are people who knew Mr. Grewal that may have information that could help us solve his murder,” Cpl. Frank Jang said. “I urge these individuals to come forward and speak with IHIT.”\nPolice are expected to give an update on the investigation later this afternoon.\nMore to come.\nwww.twitter.com}}
{{On a surface level, Mahogany Jones' newest album is the sort of "safe" hip-hop you could play for your grandparents, due to its smooth beats and lack of foul language. Yet when you sit down with the album, it grabs your attention by the soul strings and makes you bounce like a puppet. And then you realize Jones is rapping about serious topics much bigger than herself.\nOn the album, the Kresge Arts Fellow plays with a few classic genre tropes, all revolving around a central theme. The intro track sets the tone for the album and poses a question that prepares the listener for the thematic exploration Jones indulges: "What's your definition of soul music?" A few different voices offer answers about passion, vulnerability, Curtis Mayfield, honesty, positivity, negativity, emotions, life, food, and timelessness. Throughout the album, Jones (who you might remember from BET's 106 & Park Freestyle Fridays as the first four-time undefeated champion in 2001) touches on how soul music is much more than just a genre — it's simultaneously all of these things.\nMy favorite answer in the song is the statement, "It's one of those things that helps people get through things." That's exactly what Jones is offering with this album. Whether you're going through some rough times or simply hate everything being played on the radio, Jones will stir your soul until you burst with inspiration.\nThe album title, Sugar Water, comes from the chorus on the first tune, "Bring Back the Soul." On this track, "soul" appears to be something from the past, a sweet drug that everyone was addicted to at some point in their lives, but have since replaced with things of lesser value. Jones' intentions are clear when she raps, "resurrect it, then perfect it, liquefy it, then inject it, in the hearts of the people when they least expect it, give 'em that sugar water" after verses of reminiscing on boom-bap, Michael Jackson, listening to music with her mother, and other touching memories.\nAfter the second verse, it's clear we as a society have devolved from the purity Jones wants to bring back into music: "When being original was vital for survival, when having a rival wasn't about the image, wasn't about record sales, wasn't about the gimmicks, we was in it to win it and to win it didn't mean we had to mimic who was hot for a minute, cooled down by their second round, career was finished ... ain't nobody committed to making classics, you can feel the difference, we need soul." Amen.\nNext, Jones shifts to a more literal interpretation of "soul" with the track "Gold," while still continuing the commentary on contemporary artists. A perfect Kendrick Lamar sample explains the inner turmoil Jones and many other artists will experience at some point in their careers: "Look inside of your soul and you can find out it never exist. Look inside of my soul and you can find gold and maybe get rich." Exploring the dangers and influence money can have over a person, Jones, similar to Lamar, is exploring the cost of making money off something that comes from a very sensitive place. The verses say: "don't you wanna know how it feels to make a mill," "what's real, I don't even know no more, don't even know what I'm looking for," and "is this really living, you're getting it just to make millions," which all lead up to the chorus: "your soul is worth so much more than gold."\nAll of this suggests that the potential millions aren't worth creating something that doesn't come from the soul. The value of the soul, and by extension, soul music, cannot be measured in gold. Jones and a killer guest feature are touching on an age-old cliché ("We broke but money can't fix") that proves the struggle of finding happiness yet needing money to survive as a human experience.\nHowever, Jones bounces back from this state of confusion on the track "Untitled" — "lyrical Cassius, who needs cash when purpose is perfectly intertwined with rhythm and passion ... my words speak life ... resurrect the dead then they lead the masses." Here, Jones knows in her soul that her music provides fulfillment not just for herself, but for others as well. The rest of the song has two amazing features, and ends with more on the unifying powers of hip-hop. These dialogues all work to clue the listener in to what Jones is trying to do with the rest of the album.\nThe state of contemporary hip-hop isn't the only thing Jones is critical of on the album. On the track "Home," she delves into the soul-splitting dichotomy of living in a country that once thrived on the enslavement of her not-so-ancient ancestors and delivers a powerful verse: "This is information that's not falsified/I guess that's why I find it difficult that I reside in the land of the free and home of the brave/home of the brave is the home of the slave trade/tragic like the World Trade/tell me about a god that saves and turned around and made the Atlantic my mass grave/But how can I forget when daily I relive, no reconciliation, no recompense, no reparations."\nThe feeling of alienation in America in 2016 is possibly the most tragic sentiment expressed on the album, and something which is seen all too often in society at large. "Home, a place where there's love overflowing" is unfortunately not so easy to find.\nJones is not afraid to dig deep and open up about some very intense and important topics. This album is not only excellent ear candy, but an important discussion about contemporary issues. Jones uses hip-hop as her platform to address not only personal subjects, but also to further discussions we as a society have yet to resolve. This album is jam-packed with killer rhymes, smooth beats, and important topics that need to continue to be talked about. Jones closes the album with a bit of encouragement to help you get through some things, proving she has indeed brought back the soul: "Never call truce, minds never lose. Never call truce, spirits never lose."\nThe Sugar Water album release party is this Friday, Aug. 26 at Mo' Better Blues; Doors at 8 p.m.; 546 Larned St., Detroit; $5.}}
{{The councilors and directors of Quebec Lodge are knee-deep in happy campers at their new location, and program director Duncan Pluant said that things are going very well.\nPluant discussed the surprise third week of camp, which ran during the second week of July, which was offered at no cost for children in refugee families that had moved to the area.\n“We really focused on giving them exposure to the Canadian wilderness,” Pluant said of the 16 campers that were bused in from Sherbrooke every day.\nFrom the moment the campers arrived to the moment they left, Pluant said they were always keen to learn. They particularly loved being in the water. “I’ve never seen a group swim so much,” he laughed.\nRead the full story in Friday's Record}}
{{: you are using an outdated browser. Microsoft does not recommend using IE as your default browser . Some features on this website, like video and images, might not work properly. For the best experience, please upgrade your browser}}
{{Vinyl has had something of a resurgence in recent years with annual sales set to surpass record three million in the UK for first time in decades.\nBut, according to a recent YouGov report, older buyers rather than young hipsters are behind the humble LP.s transformation from obsolete format to modern success.\nThe vinyl countdown\nWhile still a niche product compared with music streaming, vinyl sales have gone from strength to strength in recent years and saw a five-fold increase between 2009 and 2014, before doubling again the year after. Record sales in 2015 hit a 21-year high of 2.1 million units.\nAnd, in the first three months of 2016, demand for LPs had doubled year on year compared with the first three months of 2015, jumping from 2 per cent to 4 per cent of UK music sales.\nBritish Phonographic Industry chief exec Geoff Taylor commented: “While digital platforms provide fans instant and unlimited access to an ever-expanding cosmos of music, they can’t quite match the unique experience vinyl gives you - browsing for rare gems in your favourite record store, pouring over the cover art and sleeve notes and enjoying the ritual of carefully dropping the stylus onto an LP and savouring its analogue sound.”\nMany reports put the growth in the format down to the ‘hipster’ market, with an ICM survey earlier this year suggesting that 50 per cent of vinyl buyers were under the age of 35, while the NPD Group suggested the figure was closer to 75 per cent.\nData published this week by YouGov, however, indicated that it’s midlifers, rather than younger people who are fueling the resurgence, reflected across South Yorkshire.\nThe YouGov Profiles figures showed that people between the ages of 45 and 54 are most likely to have bought a vinyl record recently whereas those in the 18 to 24 age group are the least likely.\nThe study also drew conclusions about the role music plays in vinyl buyers’ lives, suggesting that music plays a more central role in the lives of those that buy vinyl, compared with those who do not.\nTwo thirds (66 per cent) of vinyl buyers said that they couldn’t get through the day without listening to music, compared with 49 per cent of UK adults in general.\nThey are also more likely to go to gigs than the general population, with 68 per cent of vinyl buyers saying they enjoyed seeing their favourite artists live, compared to 47 per cent of the general population.\nWhichever segment is driving growth, it’s clear that the industry is embracing the format’s resurgence.\nUniversal Music UK, for example, has in recent years started offering independent music retailers special promotions on vinyl releases for Christmas and labels are throwing their support behind annual events such as Record Store Day.\nMajor supermarkets and high street chains have even jumped on the bandwagon and Tesco, Sainsbury’s and Urban Outfitters all stock a selection of vinyl records.}}
{{After David Byron was fired from Uriah Heep in 1976 he formed Rough Diamond whose album the following year was as dire as it was predictable. The rest of his alcohol-fuelled decline was just a matter of time, apparently.\nNot quite. In 1978 he teamed up with producer and songwriter Daniel Boone who tried to reinvent Byron as a singer beyond his heavy metal confines. The title track, Only You Can Do It and Heaven Or Hell are catchy pop songs with synthesizers and electronically treated vocals that reek of ELO. Rich Man’s Lady and Acetylene Jean are smooth rockabilly. Then there’s the electro-disco of African Breeze, complete with tribal rhythms.\nIn retrospect, Baby Faced Killer is a brave album that’s flawed because it tries to do too much too soon. If it had focused on developing just one of these styles it might have succeeded as Byron’s voice was certainly adaptable and the production was sleek and brimming with ideas.\nBut the heavy metal world is not best known for its willingness to embrace innovation. As expected the reviews were dismissive. Nobody was prepared to countenance such a crossover. The album was also ahead of its time and swimming against the tide of the new wave, not to mention the first stirrings of NWOBHM. It’s unlikely that it would have been more favourably received at any time before Byron’s death in 1985. But 40 years later it doesn’t sound like the turkey it was portrayed as back then.}}
{{Email verification\nThank you for verifying your email address.\nVerification link has expired, please sign in and click on resend verification email from your profile page.\nVerification link has expired, please click on resend verification email from your profile page.}}
{{Rock legend Eddie Money’s career spanned more than 30 years, and throughout that time, he released more than 30 singles from a dozen albums. Of his many releases, 23 appeared in Billboard’s Top 100, with two climbing all the way into the top 10.\nAs The Inquisitr previously reported, Money died today, but his musical legacy will live on forever. Billboard magazine ranked the rocker’s top five songs according to their performance on Billboard’s Top 100 chart over the years.\n1. “Take Me Home Tonight”\n“Take Me Home Tonight” ranked the most popular of Money’s many single releases. The song topped out at No. 4 on Top 100 in 1986. The lead single from his album Can’t Hold Back, “Take Me Home Tonight” featured vocalist Ronnie Spector of the 1960s group, the Ronnettes. The song spent 21 weeks on the Top 100 and earned Money a Grammy nomination for Best Male Rock Vocal Performance. “Take Me Home Tonight” still enjoys airplay on classic rock stations.\n2. “Walk On Water”\n“Walk On Water” was released in 1988 from Money’s album Nothing to Lose. The single peaked at No. 9 on Billboard’s Hot 100 in the same year, and it enjoyed 21 weeks in the charts. According to website Revolvy, rocker Sammy Hagar and Jesse Harms wrote the tune. Jimmy Lyon, who used to be a member of Money’s band, also played guitar on the single.\n3. “Baby Hold On”\n“Baby Hold On” was the first single from Money’s eponymous debut album, Eddie Money, released in 1978. The song made it all the way to No. 11 in the Hot 100 that year, and it lasted in the charts for 20 weeks. Revolvy reported that Money’s guitarist Jimmy Lyon co-wrote the tune. “Baby Hold On” is considered to be one of Money’s most popular songs, which can be heard on rock stations today.\n4. “Peace In Our Time”\nReleased in 1990, “Peace In Our Time” topped out at No. 11 in the Top 100, and it stayed in the charts for 15 weeks. The song is a cover tune of the song by Jennifer Holliday, which was released in 1988.\nEddie Money, the iconic singer and songwriter best known for "Take Me Home Tonight” and many more hits, died Friday morning, according to multiple reports https://t.co/CQc8HFe3Is — Hollywood Reporter (@THR) September 13, 2019\nLoading...\n5. “I Wanna Go Back”\nAlso a cover song, “I Wanna Go Back” was released from the album Can’t Hold Back. Released in 1987, the single peaked at No. 14 in the Top 100 and spent 21 weeks in the charts.\nOther honorable mentions that helped make the rock star a household name in the ’70s and ’80s include “Two Tickets To Paradise” and “Think I’m In Love” from the album Eddie Money. The songs peaked on the Hot 100 at 22 and 16, respectively. “I’ll Get By,” from the album Right Here, topped the charts at No. 21 in 1992.}}
{{Ottawa Journal by David Tilson MP — Conservatives say there are ways of expanding Canadian beef markets\nAugust 24, 2016 · 0 Comments\nCanadian beef is widely known, within Canada and abroad, for its superior quality.\nHere in Dufferin-Caledon, we’re proud to have many beef producers and farms throughout the riding, making significant contributions to both the local and national economies. The federal government has a responsibility to support Canadian beef producers in exporting their product globally. During the North American Leaders’ Summit held in late June, Mexico agreed to open its borders to Canadian beef products by October. This announcement builds on the previous Conservative government’s work to open new markets for Canadian producers.\nAccording to the Canadian Cattleman’s Association’s (CCA) website (www.cattle.ca/resources/industry-stats/), Canada is one of the largest exporters of red meat and livestock in the world and produces approximately 1.2 million tonnes of beef annually. Furthermore, the Canadian beef industry contributes $33 billion worth of sales of goods and services either directly or indirectly to the Canadian economy, as stated on CCA’s website. This is an immense contribution, which creates thousands of jobs for Canadians.\nMexico had previously banned all imports of Canadian cattle and beef after the 2003 outbreak of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). Before the North American Leaders’ Summit held in late June, Mexico did not allow Canadian imports of cattle or beef from cattle more than 30 months of age. The concerns Mexico had expressed were addressed and resolved. The Canadian beef industry produces the safest and best quality beef in the world, which has created a growing demand for Canadian beef from consumers around the world. Canada’s hard-working beef producers and processors are dedicated to creating a quality product that is backed up by a stringent and effective regulatory regime. Mexico’s geographic proximity to Canada, as well as its growing beef market, offers valuable economic opportunities for both countries, making it Canada’s third most important market.\nThe previous Conservative government worked hard to open new markets for Canadian producers and to produce sound, science-based policy for the trade of agricultural products. For example, the previous Conservative government established market access for beef to Ukraine in July 2015. Canada exported $35.5 million worth of agriculture and agri-food, and seafood products to Ukraine in 2014.\nMexico deserves to enjoy the best tasting and highest quality beef in the world that is produced by our very own Canadian farmers and ranchers. I’m pleased that our previous Conservative government’s work to see Mexico fully re-open its borders to Canadian beef has taken place following the North American Leaders’ Summit. Our dedicated and hard-working beef producers deserve our full support by working to open new markets for their products. The previous Conservative government and current Opposition will continue to support Canada’s beef producers.\nReaders Comments (0)}}
{{Republican gubernatorial candidate Jeff Johnson will be in Duluth for President Trump's rally Wednesday. He wants the endorsement of Trump, who performed well in the reliably democratic 8th District. He doesn't think he'll get that endorsement Wednesday, but says it's a chance for him to talk to thousands of voters leading up to the primaries.\nIn the past, Johnson has voiced concern about the president's character but largely supported his policies. He says he stands with Trump on immigration, despite intense criticism over taking children away from their parents at the border.\nJohnson disagrees with Trump on tariffs and would like to see more free trade. He spoke with MPR News' Cathy Wurzer.\nComments have been edited for length and clarity.\nYou want Trump's endorsement. Have you been given any indication you'll get it tonight?\nNo, I don't believe we'll get it tonight. That's really not what tonight is about. It is a rally for the president and for Pete Stauber, our 8th congressional district [candidate]. So that's where the focus will be, and we don't want to try to step on that. Hopefully over the next few weeks during this primary we'll have a shot to get President Trump's endorsement. ... My goal is to meet as many of the 10,000 or so potential primary voters as possible that will be there.\nWhere do you stand on the Trump administration's family separation policy?\nI don't think anybody likes it at all. You see these pictures and they're terrible. And the president himself has said he doesn't like it. He's trying to deal with something that has been going on for a decade now of essentially a porous border in the southern part of the United States. I am actually happy that he's doing something about it.\nMy hope is that in the next couple of days they can work something out that both the president and the Democrats can agree to to stop separating children from their parents. But I do actually support what he's trying to do with respect to immigration right now.\nRepublican Massachusetts Gov. Charlie Baker, in addition to governors in Colorado and New Mexico, are refusing to deploy National Guard troops to the border in protest of this policy. If elected, would you send National Guard troops to the border?\nI likely would although that's not before me right now. I would want to talk to our own National Guard leaders to get their opinion on it.\nWhen I see the National Guard deployed to other countries, that gives me some real pause. But when I see them used within the United States to protect Minnesota and American citizens that seems to be their purpose. So, I likely would do that.\nFarmers in Minnesota are not happy about the president's tariffs. Miners are happy about them. Where do you stand?\nThat is one area where the president and I probably don't agree as much as many other areas. I tend to be more free trade supporter than he is. I love the fact that he is trying to get better deals than we've gotten in the past. Actually a couple of times when he's done this it seems like maybe that that strategy is working. He seems to be pretty good at negotiating, but I am not a big fan of tariffs in general as long as the other countries we're dealing with are treating us the same way.}}
{{By Radar Staff\nCheck out Sofia Richie’s dirty dancing! ( OK! Magazine\nHow cute is Maci Bookout’s daughter? ( OK! Magazine\nAre Tori Spelling and Jennie Garth doing a Beverly Hills 90210 spin-off? ( Star Magazine}}
{{HOUSTON - The nonprofit trying to open a migrant children’s shelter in Houston has a history of health and safety violations at other shelters it operates, according to a KHOU 11 Investigates review of inspections by the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services.\nSouthwest Key Programs, Inc., is licensed to house more than 3,200 children at its 16 residential child care facilities across the state. Eleven of those shelters are in the Houston area with a total capacity of around 800 children.\nIn a June 15 interview with TEGNA sister station KVUE-TV in Austin, the nonprofit’s President and CEO said he was proud of the care his organization provides.\n“We do it very well, we do it better than everybody else,” said Dr. Juan Sanchez.\nSouthwest Key Programs receives more money than anyone else in Texas when it comes to caring for migrant children who cross the border. Its current funding tops $500 million according to federal procurement records reviewed by KHOU 11 Investigates.\nThat amount of money concerns advocates at the Tahirih Justice Center in Houston, which provides legal services to immigrant women and children fleeing violence.\n“There’s a lot of desire to cut costs and my concern is cutting costs when children are this traumatized,” said Executive Director Anne Chandler.\nA review of three years of inspection reports of the nonprofit’s Texas shelters reveals 245 violations, including 78 in the “high” risk level category. Those include a child “clearly in pain” who was not given medical care promptly. Another child with a wrist fracture was not seen by a doctor until three days later according to state inspection reports. Another child feeling ill was not given any medical treatment.\nOther violations include giving the wrong medication to the wrong child, and other medication errors according to state records.\n“The shelters are scrambling,” Chandler said.\nShe said under the new “zero tolerance policy” at the border, shelters are having a tough time hiring enough staff to keep up.\n“The system is overloaded,” she said.\nDr. Sanchez did not dispute that in the recent interview with KVUE-TV.\n“What happened is so many kids came in so quickly and we had to expand so fast,” Dr. Sanchez said.\n“Right now, we have asked many of our staff to work 12-hour days to be able to manage all these kids,” Dr. Sanchez said in the June 15 interview.\nShelters must manage everything from bathroom cleanliness to serious health concerns.\nOne of the Southwest Key Programs shelters was cited for having dirty sinks and bathrooms with no towels for children to dry their hands. Another was in violation for not telling the state when a child contracted a communicable disease.\nIn a statement, the Southwest Key Programs said its overall deficiency rate is less than one percent of more than 78,000 standards evaluated by state inspectors. The nonprofit also said it self-reports problems to regulators, launches internal investigations, and has disciplined staff when problems are found. New employees are required to undergo 80 hours of training before they can work with children, according to the non-profit.\nIt also said the United Nations Human Rights Council recognized its good work with migrant children in 2016.\nYou can read the full statement from Southwest Key Programs here.\n© 2018 KHOU}}
{{The Trump administration is on track to admit fewer refugees this year than in any year since at least 2003. With resources going towards tackling the asylum backlog, there are fewer resources to address the refugee admittance process.\nAs of the end of May, 14,331 refugees have been admitted to the U.S. in 2018. If the U.S. continues admittance at this rate the Trump administration will not hit the refugee cap of 45,000 by the end of the fiscal year. The cap itself is a significant decrease from the Obama era recent refugee cap, which was last set at 110,000.\nThe U.N. refugee agency reported Tuesday that nearly 69 million people who have fled war, violence and persecution were forcibly displaced last year, a record for the fifth straight year. There has been an average of 44,000 people per day that are newly displaced.\nForty-six Syrians have been admitted to the U.S. in 2018, as of May 31st. Last year, 6,557 Syrians were admitted to the U.S., a marked decline from the year before, when 12,587 were admitted.\nThe State Department says there is not any effort to ban any certain nationality of refugees. The U.S. remains the single largest donor to the crisis in Syria, providing nearly $8.1 billion in humanitarian assistance, according to the State Department. That assistance includes urgent relief to those suffering inside Syria and in the Syrian region.\nCritics wonder why there has been such a slowdown in refugee admittance.\nFor a portion of the year, the Trump administration was spending resources on White House ordered reviews of refugee vetting. "Additional vetting procedures announced in October 2017 and January 2018 are enabling departments and agencies to more thoroughly review applicants to identify threats to public safety and national security," said a State Department spokesperson.\nAs a result of the reviews there was additional screening added for certain individuals from high-risk countries, the implementation of a more "risk-based manner" for the refugee program as a whole and a periodic review of the risks posed by certain countries. The Trump administration also added additional social media screening to everyone entering the U.S. These reviews took resources across multiple agencies to complete but they were both finished by January.\nThe Department of Homeland Security (DHS) remains one place where there is a dearth of resources for refugee admittance. The United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) at DHS is the office that takes the lead on security vetting for refugees and tackling the backlog of asylum seekers.\n"Since early 2017, USCIS has been detailing refugee officers to assist the Asylum Division. There are presently approximately 100 staff members from the Refugee Affairs Division temporarily assigned to work for the Asylum Division," said Michael Bars, the USCIS Spokesperson.\nDue to the asylum focus, there are fewer resources on the refugee side. But DHS is making headway on speeding up their efforts to tackle the asylum backlog. They say the asylum process is broken and there is a very low requirement. The problem has been further exasperated by the border surges especially on the southern US border. In May, USCIS received approximately 7,750 new asylum cases and completed over 7,950 outstanding ones. In October of 2017, they had only completed 4,967 cases. There are now 319,218 total asylum cases pending, according to USCIS.\n"Every means in accordance with current law is on the table to protect the integrity of our immigration system from those seeking to exploit it by bogging it down with meritless or fraudulent claims, and undermine lawful petitioners," said Bars.\nDHS will not comment on the record about the slowdown to the refugee review process. President Trump has made it clear that he does not want a high number of refugees entering the country.\n"The United States will not be a migrant camp and will not be a refugee holding facility. It won't be. You look at what's happening in Europe. You look at what's happening in other places. We cannot allow that to happen in the U.S. Not on my watch," Mr. Trump said on Monday.\nOn the refugee side, there have not been any refugees from Venezuela or Yemen admitted to the U.S. this year. It can, however, take a while for the victims of immediate crisis to turn into refugees because the first effort is to see if the individuals can resettle in their own country once the violence has drawn down.\nSecretary of State Mike Pompeo put out a statement on Wednesday, which is World Refuge Day, committing the U.S. to maintaining its role as the world leader in humanitarian assistance – but he also pressed others to step up to the plate.\n"As global displacement has reached record levels, it is vital that new actors – including governments, international financial institutions, and the private sector – come to the table to assist in the global response to address it. The United States will continue to be a world leader in providing humanitarian assistance and working to forge political solutions to the underlying conflicts that drive displacement," wrote Pompeo.\nIn most cases, however, refugees spill over into neighboring countries.\n"Nine out of 10 are in their own countries or countries next door, and the impact is massive – on refugees themselves, and on the communities that open their doors to them. Now, more than ever, taking care of refugees must be a global – and shared – responsibility," wrote the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Filippo Grandi.}}
{{The number of people migrating to developed countries has fallen for the first time in seven years, according to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development.\nIt comes as the EU is divided on the issue of migration, heightened by the row between Italy and Spain over the plight of migrants stranded in the Mediterranean.\nBut it does not mean people are less desperate, according to OECD Secretary-General, Angel Gurria.\n"OECD countries currently host around 5.3 million refugees, more than half in Turkey alone."\n"But it's an estimated 24 percent of the total number of people in need of international protection worldwide."\nApplications to OECD countries fell 25 percent in 2017 to 1.23 million claims, from the record-high of 1.64 million a year earlier.\nThe top 3 countries of origin are Afghanistan, Syria and Iraq and the top destination is the U.S. followed by Germany.\nApplications to EU member states nearly halved and the E.U. has struggled to reform its asylum rules which broke down in 2015.\nIn Germany the issue of migration threatens to wreck Chancellor Angela Merkel’s relationship with her CDU’s Bavarian coalition party who have given her two weeks to find a solution to the migration.}}
{{A federal judge in Seattle on Saturday partially lifted a Trump administration ban on certain refugees after two groups argued that the policy prevented people from some mostly Muslim countries from reuniting with family living legally in the United States.\nU.S. District Judge James Robart heard arguments Thursday in lawsuits from the American Civil Liberties Union and Jewish Family Service, which say the ban causes irreparable harm and puts some people at risk. Government lawyers argued that the ban is needed to protect national security.\nRobart ordered the federal government to process certain refugee applications. He said his order applies to people “with a bona fide relationship to a person or entity within the United States.”\nPresident Donald Trump restarted the refugee program in October “with enhanced vetting capabilities.”\nThe day before his executive order, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, Acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke and Director of National Intelligence Daniel Coats sent a memo to Trump saying certain refugees must be banned unless additional security measures are implemented.\nIt applies to the spouses and minor children of refugees who have already settled in the U.S. and suspends the refugee program for people coming from 11 countries, nine of which are mostly Muslim.\nIn his decision, Robart wrote that “former officials detailed concretely how the Agency Memo will harm the United States’ national security and foreign policy interests.”\nRobart said his order restores refugee procedures in programs to what they were before the memo and noted that this already includes very thorough vetting of individuals.\nIn a statement, Department of Justice spokeswoman Lauren Ehrsam said: “We disagree with the Court’s ruling and are currently evaluating the next steps.”\nThe ACLU argued the memo provided no evidence for why additional security was needed and didn’t specify a timeframe for implementing the changes. The groups say the process for imposing the policy violated a federal law.\nAugust Flentje, a Justice Department attorney, told the judge that the ban is temporary and “is a reasonable and appropriate way for agency heads to tackle gaps” in the screening process.\nThe lawsuits from the two groups were consolidated and represent refugees who have been blocked from entering the country.\nThe ACLU represents a Somali man living in Washington state who is trying to bring his family to the U.S. They have gone through extensive vetting, have passed security and medical clearances, and just need travel papers, but those were denied after the ban.\nLisa Nowlin, staff attorney for the ACLU of Washington, said in a statement they were happy for their client — “who has not yet had the opportunity to celebrate a single birthday with his younger son in person — will soon have the opportunity to hold his children, hug his wife in the very near future, and be together again as a family for the first time in four years.”\nTwo other refugees included in the Jewish Family Service lawsuit are former Iraqi interpreters for the U.S. Army whose lives are at risk because of their service.\nAnother is a transgender woman in Egypt “living in such extremely dangerous circumstances that the U.S. government itself had expedited her case until the ban came down,” said Mariko Hirose, a lawyer with the Jewish Family Service case.\nYet another is a single woman in Iraq, Hirose said. Her husband divorced her after she was kidnapped and raped by militants because she worked with an American company. Her family is in the U.S. but she’s stranded by the ban, Hirose said.\n___\nAssociated Press writer Chris Grygiel contributed to this report.\n_____________________________________________________\n© 2017 Capitol Hill Blue\nCopyright © 2017 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.\nShare this: Facebook\nTwitter\nLinkedIn\nEmail\nPrint\nGoogle}}
{{(Reuters) - Double Olympic gold medalist Kaillie Humphries wants to compete for the United States and has filed a lawsuit against Bobsleigh Canada to obtain her release, according to a CBC report here on Friday.\nFILE PHOTO: Bobsleigh - Pyeongchang 2018 Winter Olympics - Women's Finals - Olympic Sliding Centre - Pyeongchang, South Korea - February 21, 2018 - Kaillie Humphries of Canada reacts. REUTERS/Arnd Wiegmann\nHumphries, who last year filed a harassment complaint against Bobsleigh Canada and stepped away from competition, told the CBC she has been waiting for weeks to be released, but cannot wait any longer.\n“It was a very hard decision, it still is a very hard decision to get to this point,” Humphries told CBC. “At the end of the day, I have to be who I am, I have to be strong.”\nHumphries, according to the CBC report, is suing the national governing body for blocking her release and breaching their contract relating to the athlete and coach code of conduct.\nInternational Olympic Committee requirements state that an athlete who changes their nationality may compete in the Olympic Games to represent their new country if at least three years have passed since they last represented their former country.\nHumphries, who won gold medals at the 2010 and 2014 Olympics before picking up a bronze at the 2018 Pyeongchang Games, is marrying American Travis Armbruster, a former member of the U.S. bobsleigh team, on Saturday.\nAccording to the CBC report, the 34-year-old Canadian also plans to attend a U.S. bobsleigh training camp in Lake Placid as a guest next week.\nUSA Bobsled and Skeleton did not immediately respond when asked to comment.\nHumphries, who also won gold at both the 2012 and 2013 world championships, did not describe what type of harassment she was alleging in her complaint but did describe her workplace environment as “impaired”.\nBobsleigh Canada, which forwarded Humphries’ complaint to an independent investigator, said it would not comment until the investigation process is complete.}}
{{WASHINGTON (AP) — The Latest on immigration legislation (all times local):\n11:05 a.m.\nSpeaker Paul Ryan says the House will vote Thursday on GOP immigration bills, but he offered no back-up plan to bring an end to family separations at the border if the measure fails to pass.\n"Right now we're focused on getting this bill passed," Ryan told reporters.\nHe says the compromise bill negotiated between Republican conservatives and moderates "is Plan B."\nThe speaker said he does not support separating parents from children and wants families detained together.\nBut passage of the House bill remains in doubt even after President Donald Trump met with lawmakers this week to support an immigration fix. GOP leaders have struggled to rally support from Republicans. And some lawmakers said Trump should give a more full-throated endorsement of the leadership-backed bill.\n___\n10:50 a.m.\nThe head of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement is invoking the 9/11 terrorist attacks to defend separating families at the U.S. southern border.\nActing ICE Director Thomas Homan tells Fox News' "Fox & Friends": "I see a lot of tweets from New York congressmen. How soon they forget what happened in New York at the hands of people in the country illegally."\nThe 9/11 hijackers were in the country legally.\nHoman did correctly note that the "vast majority" of children currently in U.S. custody crossed the border without family members. At issue, however, is the spike of children in custody resulting from family separations.\nAfter the administration announced this spring it would prosecute every illegal border crossing, some 2,000 children were separated from their families.\n___\n10:55 a.m.\nThe Senate's No. 2 Republican says Democrats "like the narrative" of immigrant families being separated at the southern border amid mounting criticism over the forced separation of children from their parents as they seek to enter the country illegally.\nTexas Sen. John Cornyn says Democrats risk a backlash if they oppose Republican efforts to address the problem in Congress.\nCornyn told reporters Wednesday that Democrats "are conflicted, because they like the narrative" of blaming President Donald Trump for separating families. But he said Democrats "are going to be challenged to try to fix the problem, and if they don't appear to be willing to meet us halfway I think their using this for partisan purposes will be exposed."\n___\n10:45 a.m.\nVeteran Republican strategist Steve Schmidt is renouncing his membership in the Republican Party, in light of the political tempest over the Trump administration immigration policy that separates children from their parents.\nVia Twitter, the senior strategist to 2008 Republican presidential nominee Sen. John McCain says he became a member of a party founded to oppose slavery "and stand for the dignity of human life."\nSchmidt then says: "Today, I renounce my membership in the Republican Party. It is fully the party of Trump."\nSchmidt, who also advised President George W. Bush and former California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, has been a reliable critic of President Donald Trump. He recently said Trump "beclowned himself" with his criticism of U.S. allies during the recent G-7 summit in Canada.\n___\n10:30 a.m.\nMexico's governmental human rights commission says the Trump administration policy of separating families at the border is "appalling and immoral."\nCommission President Luis Gonzalez Perez on Wednesday called the Trump administration cruel and said the policy is hurting children. Gonzalez Perez urged the nations of Central America — whose migrants are disproportionately affected by the policy — to speak out.\nGonzalez Perez also said that Mexico has to live up to the same standard of humane treatment of migrants that it demands from the United States.\n___\n9:55 a.m.\nPresident Donald Trump says on Twitter he is "working on something" related to immigration following his Tuesday night meeting with House Republicans.\nTrump is again placing blame on Democrats, asserting that "they won't give us the votes needed to pass good immigration legislation." The president's party, the Republicans, control both chambers in Congress.\nHe writes, "Republicans want security. But I am working on something - it never ends!"\nRepublican leaders in the House are trying to put together an immigration bill that would keep immigrant children in detention indefinitely, but housed with their parents.\n___\n10:10 a.m.\nAbout two dozen immigrant children have joined Democratic lawmakers on the House floor as the lawmakers decry the separation of families at the border.\nRep. Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas says the detaining of children separately from parents who have crossed the border illegally is child abuse. She says "please, please let our children go to their families."\nThe criticism follows Democratic lawmakers confronting President Donald Trump when he visited the Capitol the day before, yelling "stop separating our families!"\nBut Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., says he is heartened by the debate because he is seeing Americans "standing up for children, standing up for those who are in need."\nAs Gutierrez spoke, his microphone was cut off because lawmakers and children gathered around him as he spoke. That was considered a breach of decorum.\n___\n8:30 a.m.\nPope Francis is criticizing the Trump administration's immigration policy, telling a news reporter earlier this week that he agrees with U.S. Catholic bishops that separating children from their parents at a border is "immoral."\nContinuing his criticism Wednesday, he tweeted: "A person's dignity does not depend on them being a citizen, a migrant, or a refugee. Saving the life of someone fleeing war and poverty is an act of humanity."\nTrump's attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has quoted the Bible in defending the policy, which calls for every person who crosses the border illegally to be prosecuted and detained. The result has been more than 2,000 children detained without a guardian and no clear plan on how the families will be reunited.\nPope Francis told Reuters in a wide-ranging interview Sunday that he agrees with recent statements by U.S. Catholic bishops who called the separation of children from their parents "contrary to our Catholic values." He said "it's not easy, but populism is not the solution."\n___\n6:15 a.m.\nAbout a dozen protesters heckled Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen about the Trump administration's immigration policy as she ate dinner at a Mexican restaurant in Washington.\nThe protesters entered MXDC Cocina Mexicana Tuesday and chanted "Shame!" and "End family separation!"\nIn a video posted on Facebook by Metro D.C. Democratic Socialists of America, the protesters yelled, "if kids don't eat in peace, you don't eat in peace."\nNielsen paid her bill and left after about 10 or 15 minutes.\nA department spokesman tweeted that during a work dinner, the secretary and her staff heard from a small group of protesters who "share her concern with our current immigration laws."\n___\n1:09 a.m.\nHouse Republican leaders searching for a way to tamp down the controversy over family separations at the U.S.-Mexico border are getting little clear direction from President Donald Trump.\nTrump visited the Capitol on Tuesday to discuss immigration, and told House Republicans he is behind their rival immigration bills "1,000 percent." Whether Trump's support can push any immigration measure through the divided GOP majority remains a question.\nRepublican lawmakers are increasingly fearful of a voter backlash in November. They met with Trump with hopes of finding a solution that holds to his hard-line immigration policy and ends the practice of taking migrant children from parents charged with entering the country illegally.\nAs Trump left the session, a half-dozen House Democrats confronted him and yelled, "Stop separating our families!"}}
{{Heavy Rotation: 10 Songs Public Radio Can't Stop Playing\nEnlarge this image toggle caption Alysse Gafkjen/Courtesy of the artist Alysse Gafkjen/Courtesy of the artist\nEach month, NPR Music invites DJs from public radio stations across the country to share the songs they can't get enough of. May's batch of tracks blurs rigid genre lines and explore several different shades of the human condition.\nThis month's playlist features Shannon Shaw's nuanced juxtaposition of neo-soul and garage-rock in "Broke My Own," Maria Grand's vulnerable take on jazz in "Imani / Walk By" and a cover of Talking Heads' "Once In A Lifetime."}}
{{New Delhi: Delhi Congress leaders are stepping up to help migrant labourers and visitors stuck in the national capital to reach their hometowns in the neighbouring states. Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) vice president Abhishek Dutt on Saturday arranged 14 buses to ferry migrant labourers and people who had reached the city for treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), to take them to their hometowns. These buses carried nearly 300 passengers to different locations in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh.\n“Ever since a migrant screening centre was opened in Lajpat Nagar, we have seen a large number of migrant labourers coming in, who could not be accommodated in trains and buses arranged by the government and they were desperate to get to their villages,” said Dutt.\nThese buses carried elderly citizens, couples with children, differently-abled people and women, who will be dropped off at districts such as Begusarai, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur, Rae Bareli, Damoh and Chattarpur, by Sunday.\n“The service was free of cost and all the social distancing norms were followed while seating the passengers. All the passengers were screened for their temperatures and they will reach their destinations by Sunday,” said Dutt.}}
{{WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump is considering taking executive action on Wednesday that would allow children to stay with detained immigrant parents through the adjudication process, a Fox News reporter said on Twitter, citing unidentified sources.\nImmigrant children now housed in a tent encampment under the new "zero tolerance" policy by the Trump administration are shown walking in single file at the facility near the Mexican border in Tornillo, Texas, U.S. June 19, 2018. REUTERS/Mike Blake\n“Sources say Admin believes it is likely to draw a court challenge on the basis of Flores v Reno,” the reporter said, referring to a 1997 settlement agreement setting standards for the treatment of immigrant minors.}}
{{By Yves Engler\nDo New Democrat MPs who belong to the Canada-Israel Interparliamentary Group (CIIG) have carte blanche to flout party policy?\nLast week CIIG executive member Murray Rankin participated in a press conference calling for a new round of Canadian sanctions on Iran. The Victoria MP joined CIIG chair Michael Levitt, vice-chair David Sweet and executive member Anthony Housefather for an event led by former CIIG executive Irwin Cotler.\nRankin’s role in this anti-Iranian effort runs counter to the NDP’s opposition to illegal sanctions on Iran, call for Canada to re-establish diplomatic relations with that country and support for the 2015 “p5+1 nuclear deal”. (Justin Trudeau has failed to maintain his election promise to restart diplomatic relations with Iran.)\nRankin’s departure from NDP policy takes place amidst the Donald Trump administration’s withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal and bid to force others to adhere to its illegal sanctions, threatening to sanction any country that buys Iranian oil.\nSecretary of State Mike Pompeo recently said the US would seek to starve Iranians until the country’s decision-makers accept their demands. Last month Pompeo told the BBC, “the [Iranian] leadership has to make a decision that they want their people to eat.”\nAlong with punishing its economy, the US and Israel are seeking to foment unrest in Iran. According to a July Axios story, “Israel and the United States formed a joint working group a few months ago that is focused on internal efforts to encourage protests within Iran and pressure the country’s government.”\nThe other NDP member on CIIG’s executive also recently departed from the party’s position by condemning the Palestinian solidarity movement. Randall Garrison tweeted, “Nick Cave: cultural boycott of Israel is ‘cowardly and shameful’” and linked to an article quoting the Australian musician who has joined a growing list of prominent individuals – from Lorde to Natalie Portman – refusing to whitewash Israeli apartheid.\nGarrison’s comment seems to run counter to the NDP’s vote against a 2016 House of Commons resolution condemning the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement. It certainly angered many rank-and-file party members.\nAfter the backlash to Garrison’s attack on the Palestine solidarity movement, the Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs put out a statement calling on people to defend the NDP MP.\nIt said,\n“last night MP Randall Garrison tweeted an anti-BDS article, calling boycotts of Israel ‘cowardly and shameful’. Since then, the comment section of the tweet has been filled with hateful pro-BDS messages from anti-Israel trolls.”\nThe timing of Garrison’s tweet made it especially egregious. The day before CIIG’s vice-chair attacked Palestine solidarity activists the Israeli Knesset voted down (71 votes to 38) a bill titled the “Basic Law: Equality”, which stated, “the State of Israel shall maintain equal political rights amongst all its citizens, without any difference between religions, race, and sex.”\nThe bill was partly a response to the explicitly racist Nation-State law passed in the summer. (The bulk of Garrison and Rankin’s colleagues on CIIG’s Israeli partner — the Israel-Canada Inter-Parliamentary Friendship Group — most likely voted against equality.)\nThree weeks ago Garrison spoke at an event organized by the Canadian Jewish Political Affairs Committee (CJPAC). CIIG’s chair also spoke. On Twitter, Michael Levitt noted:\n“Had an amazing time talking to the CJPAC Fellowship Conference last night. Over 50 Jewish and non-Jewish university students who are pro-Israel and politically engaged.”\nIn his hostility to Palestine solidarity activism, Garrison has taken to blocking NDP members on Twitter. After Garrison’s attack against the BDS movement, prominent lawyer and Palestinian rights advocate, Dimitri Lascaris, wrote:\n“No other Canadian MP has blocked me even though I have said far harsher things about other Canadian MPs than I have ever said about Garrison.”\nLast summer NDP leader Jagmeet Singh refused to heed a call by 200 well-known musicians, academics, trade unionists and party members for the NDP to withdraw from CIIG.\nPerhaps if Singh had supported the open letter signed by Roger Waters, Linda McQuaig, Maher Arar, Noam Chomsky, etc. it would have sent a message and lessened the likelihood that Garrison and Rankin would flout party policy.\nIt is not too late for Singh to reevaluate his position on the Canada-Israel Interparliamentary Group.\n– Yves Engler is the author of Canada and Israel: Building Apartheid and a number of other books. He contributed this article to PalestineChronicle.com. Visit his website: yvesengler.com.}}
{{WASHINGTON -- President Donald Trump has nominated a staunch anti-immigration activist to head the State Department agency that oversees refugee and immigration issues.\nRonald W. Mortensen, a former foreign service officer and longtime fellow at the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates against legal and illegal immigration, is Trump's choice to be assistant secretary of State for the bureau of population, refugees and migration. The White House announced the nomination late Thursday.\nAs word spread on Friday, Democrats and immigration advocates quickly objected. But Mortensen, who must be confirmed by the Republican-controlled Senate, could face trouble among Republicans as well: His long trail of controversial writings and statements includes attacks not only against immigrants but against some Republican senators, including Marco Rubio of Florida and John McCain of Arizona.\nMortensen, originally from Utah, in 2015 called Rubio "exceptionally gullible or just plain dishonest" on immigration issues. In 2014, he said McCain had made the U.S. vulnerable to infiltration by the Islamic State terror group through his "dogged support for illegal aliens and open borders."\nGiuliani: White House wants briefing on classified info about FBI investigation\nIn February 2017, just after Trump took office, Mortensen praised his efforts to step up deportations of immigrants in the country illegally and to ban some legal arrivals. He wrote in a blog post that Trump had succeeded in destroying "the myth of the noble, law abiding illegal alien."\nUntil Trump was elected, Mortensen wrote, "the career politicians that he replaced had consistently put illegal aliens first and deliberately ignored the terrible harm done to the American men, women, and children."\nThe Washington-based Center for Immigration Studies where he's worked has been listed by the Southern Poverty Law Center as a hate group, a designation it rejects.\nThe State Department bureau that Mortensen would run is supposed to have a different aim. Its purpose is to "provide protection, ease suffering, and resolve the plight of persecuted and uprooted people around the world," according to its mission statement.\nOne of Mortensen's favorite targets lately, according to his blog posts, has been the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, an Obama-era permit system that temporarily protected from deportation roughly 800,000 immigrants who came to the country illegally as children. Trump has ordered an end to the program, though federal courts have blocked him for now.\nIn one post on March 10, 2017, Mortensen argued that DACA gives amnesty to "criminal illegal aliens" and "most" DACA recipients have committed "multiple felonies to get jobs."\nThe number of DACA beneficiaries, known as Dreamers, who have been convicted of crimes is very low; all have been vetted to get their two-year permits to live in the United States, work, attend college and serve in the military. The crime rate among immigrants in general is lower than for the overall U.S. population, government data show.\nTrump: 'Maybe you shouldn't be in the country' if don't stand for anthem, lauds NFL protest ban\nRep. Joe Crowley of New York, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said Mortensen's "racist, vile and disparaging comments against immigrants" disqualified him for the post.\nJennifer Quigley, a refugee advocate at Human Rights First, called Mortensen's statements extremist. "At a time when the world is facing the worst displacement crisis since World World II, it is astounding President Trump would nominate an individual with a hostile attitude toward immigrants," Quigley said.\n"Mortensen's nomination is like choosing the fox to guard the hen house," she added.\nEfforts to reach Mortensen on Friday were unsuccessful. In announcing the nomination, the White House praised Mortensen's 15 years of work in disaster aid, saying he "worked on humanitarian responses that saved lives and alleviated the suffering of millions of people" in the Middle East, Africa and Haiti.\n(c)2018 Los Angeles Times. By Tracy Wilkinson, Tribune Washington Bureau}}
{{Music in our school is airing on WSAV, WSAV-CW3.2, and MYLC 3.3 this holiday season and the final part of 60th anniversary gift. The program will be available on demand after the 12/25/2016 1pm-2pm airing, so viewers will be able to watch it any time afterward.\nWSAV News 3 Airing:\nDec. 25, 2016 – 1pm-2pm; 2:30a-3:30a\nJan.1, 2017 – 6am-7am\nWSAV-CW3.2:\nDec. 25, 2017 – 12pm-1pm\nMYLC:\nDecember 25, 2016 – 7pm-8pm}}
{{Is skating becoming a lost art in Canada? As part of our survey of more than 1,500 Canadians from coast to coast, we asked respondents a simple question: “Do you know how to skate backwards?”\nFifty-one per cent of Canadians said they can do it, but the numbers are trending downward by generation. While 59 per cent of those born before 1945 said they know how, just 43 per cent of millennials said the same.\nThe Canada Project This post is part of The Canada Project, a representative survey of Canadians from across the country.\nWe asked Barbara Underhill to help us reverse that trend. You may know Underhill either as the world champion pairs figure skater or as the current skating consultant for the Toronto Maple Leafs, Tampa Bay Lightning and Guelph Storm.\nPoint being: She knows her stuff.\nSo, if you don’t know one of the fundamentals of skating — or just need a refresher course — this is for you:}}
{{A teenager has been arrested after allegedly stealing unreleased songs from artists' websites and selling the stolen music in exchange for cryptocurrency, according to police.\nThe 19-year-old was arrested in Ipswich, Suffolk on suspicion of copyright and computer misuse act offences.\nIt follows a raid on a property in Ipswich and another in north London.\nThe teenager was arrested after allegedly stealing unreleased songs from artists' websites and selling the stolen music in exchange for cryptocurrency. A stock image is used above [File photo]\nThe investigation was launched by prosecutors in New York after complaints from recording artists' management companies.\nThe Manhattan District Attorney's office identified one of the suspects as living in the UK, and coordinated property searches with the City of London Police Intellectual Property Crime Unit.\nDetective Inspector Nick Court said the stolen music was being sold on illegal streaming sites around the world.\n"This sort of crime causes significant financial loss to those who work so incredibly hard to produce, write and make music for their fans to enjoy," he said.}}
{{VANCOUVER, B.C. – Saturday’s weather in Metro Vancouver looks mainly cloudy with possible sunny breaks and a high of 19 C. Environment Canada is forecasting a similar weather pattern through the weekend. On Sunday, the agency says it will be mainly cloudy in the morning and then the skies should clear up a bit for the rest of the day with a balmy high of 21 C.\nWeather: Vancouver, B.C.\nToday: Mainly cloudy. High 19 C. UV index 6 or high.\nTonight: Mainly cloudy. Low 11 C.\nTomorrow: Clearing in the morning. High 21 C. UV index 7 or high.\nSource: Environment Canada\nTraffic: Lower Mainland\nHere’s a live traffic map of what’s happening across the region’s roads. Use command + scroll to zoom in and out.}}
{{“Steve ‘interesting’ Davis is actually really interesting,” says Dave Harper about the snooker legend who’ll be swapping his cue for decks to perform a DJ set as part of a music cruise.\nAs well as taking to the floating stage aboard the DFDS ship as drummer with Sunderland’s Frankie & the Heartstrings, Dave has made waves programming the musical entertainment for the North Sea Sounds mini cruise which sets sail for Amsterdam from North Tyneside in November.\nThe series of music-themed cruises see the tables turned on stereotypical cruise liner entertainment with voyages featuring acts including Lindisfarne, Craig Charles Funk & Soul Club and Smoove & Turrell.\nThe high seas gig Dave’s had a helping hand in steering on November 18 will have a Mackem twang.\nWhile headliners Frankie & the Heartstrings play top of the bill on the outward slot, fellow Sunderland musicians Hyde & Beast, which features Dave Hyde of Futureheads fame and Neil Bassett of the Golden Virgins, will headline on the return leg.\nThere will also be a DJ set from Peter Brewis of Field Music, and performances from former Futureheads frontman Barry Hyde, who recently released his debut solo album Malody; folk quartet The Cornshed Sisters and Tom Fletcher, pedal steel guitar player with Hyde & Beast and The Lake Poets.\nSteve Davis DJ\nAs well as a set from snooker champion Steve Davis whose musical ear has seen him enjoy guest slots as a DJ on BBC 6Music, as well as regular appearances in London nightspots.\n“Steve’s a great guy,” said Dave. “He’s got a local connection too as he’s married to a woman from Sunderland and they’ve got his photo up in Crozier’s fish and chip shop in Sunderland. What more could you want?\n“He came to our first album launch in London so we met him then. He plays some great tracks in his set, he has impeccable taste in music, particularly in prog rock and Northern Soul. He DJ’d at Glastonbury and is really well thought of. Considering he was sometimes called Steve ‘interesting’ Davis he’s really interesting and actually hilarious. The uninteresting tag is just an urban myth.”\nDave says the cruise is a great chance to see a stellar line-up of acts whose individual gig prices would rack up to more than the cruise ticket price, which starts from £63.\nfrankie and the Heartstrings\n“It’s a great chance to see these acts,” said Dave. “As well as the headliners, there’s acts like Tom who is a really well thought of musician who’s played loads of guitar festivals.”\nSpeaking about the Heartstrings’ involvement, he said: “We were initially involved a couple of years ago when it was first suggested that we play on one of the music cruises. Because of scheduling it never happened, but it was always in my mind that we could programme something and put it together like a showcase of funk and Northern Soul\n“As a band we want to perform on interesting stages.”\nDave and guitarist Michael McKnight juggle gigging with running their Pop Recs culture hub in Stockton Road, Sunderland.\nHyde & Beast\nThe record store, coffee shop, arts space and gig venue, which has been championed by the likes of James Bay and Tim Burgess of The Charlatans, opened in its new home thanks to a crowd-funding campaign which raised more than £13,000.\nDave says Pop Recs is a hard slog, but it’s one they think will take off over time.\n“The shop is really hard work and we barely make enough money to keep it open but we still think what we do is important, people just need to grab hold of it more,” he said.\nThe shop is a shining example of the DIY approach to arts and culture which exists in Sunderland, one, it’s hoped, will help it win the City of Culture 2021 title which could spark a host of cultural activity on Wearside.\nDave said: “I’ve been behind the bid from the beginning and I have no reason to support it other that I genuinely think it will be a positive thing for the city. I’m a very proactive person, I like to see things happen. And the real test of the bid is what happens if we win the title. It would be just the kick we need as a city and we need to capitalise on it and use it as a shot in the arm to get where we want.”\nThe North Sea Sounds music mini cruises see the ferry operator’s Newcastle-Amsterdam ships transformed into floating concert venues, offering customers the chance to enjoy a cruise and concert in one.\nPrices for the autumn mini cruises start from £63 per person, including en suite cabin accommodation on board and up to five hours to explore the Dutch capital. This year’s line-up of musical talent features:\n•Craig Charles Funk & Soul Club and Smoove & Turrell – departs Friday, September 30\n•Lindisfarne & Martin Stephenson – departs Sunday, October 16\n•Hyde & Beast, Frankie & The Heartstrings and Steve Davis vs Field Music – departs Friday, November 18\n•Bowie Ball tribute show – departs Friday December, 2\nBook at www.dfds.co.uk/music or call 0871 522 9955.\n•We’ve teamed up with DFDS to give away three pairs of mini cruise tickets, worth more than £120 a pair, for the Frankie & the Heartstrings / Hyde & Beast cruise on November 18 which includes live performances on board, two nights on board the ferry in an en-suite cabin, coach transfers to and from Amsterdam city centre and up to five hours in Amsterdam.\nTo be in with a chance of winning, answer this question: in which sport was Steve Davis a world champion?\nA) Snooker\nB) Football\nC) Tennis\nFill in your answer and full contact details on a postcard and return it to DFDS Competition, Katy Wheeler, Johnston Press North East, 2nd Floor, Alexander House, 1 Mandarin Road, Rainton Bridge Business Park, Houghton le Spring, DH4 5RA.\nAlternatively, you can email your answer and full contact details to Katy.Wheeler@jpress.co.uk\nClosing date: September 1.}}
{{BERLIN (Reuters) - Leading figures from Angela Merkel’s conservatives and the Social Democrats (SPD) outlined differing visions on how their possible government would approach immigration, as Germany’s would-be coalition partners prepared for talks in the New Year.\nChancellor Merkel’s 2015 decision to open the doors to more than a million migrants, many fleeing war in the Middle East, transformed Germany’s demographic landscape and boosted the far right, hurting her bloc and the SPD in September’s election.\nIn separate interviews, Thomas Strobl, deputy leader of Merkel’s Christian Democrats (CDU) and SPD foreign minister Sigmar Gabriel outlined ways of winning back disenchanted supporters.\nStrobl told the Heilbronner Stimme newspaper Germany should cap the number of new immigrants at 65,000 a year, the level in 2012, and far below the limit of 200,000 that the conservatives had previously advocated.\nBut Gabriel, whose party’s restive membership would be unlikely to accept such a draconian cap, suggested municipalities around Germany and Europe could be compensated financially if they agreed to shelter refugees.\n“That way municipalities would decide themselves how many refugees to take,” he told the Funke newspaper group. “That would avoid citizens gaining the impression that refugees get everything and we get nothing.”\nGermany has argued in vain for the stream of migrants fleeing war and poverty in the Middle East and Africa to be divided proportionately between the European Union’s member states, with poorer, more ethnically homogenous eastern members particularly set against the idea.\n“The EU could establish a program to help municipalities in poorer countries with the financing,” Gabriel added.\nMerkel, for whom a renewed conservative-SPD ‘grand coalition’ is her best chance of securing a fourth term as chancellor, has blamed her Sept. 24 election losses on concern at migration and now favors a tougher stance on deporting migrants accused of crimes.\nThe SPD’s membership, which must ratify any government deal, is cautious about repeating the experience of a grand coalition, for which voters rewarded it with a drubbing in the polling booths.\nWhile Gabriel is not a member of the SPD’s negotiating team, his proposal could prove popular with the party’s broadly more pro-European rank-and-file, and especially with party leader Martin Schulz, a former European Parliament president.\nIn a further sign the center-left party is trying to distinguish itself from the conservatives, party deputy chairman Hubertus Heil said the next government should allocate 12 billion euros more to education over the next four years.\nThe money was needed to fund investment in digital learning methods, he told newspaper Bild am Sonntag, insisting that the federal government had to play a bigger role in education, traditionally a state-level competency.\nExploratory talks between the parties are due to begin on Jan. 7, and Merkel hopes to reach a deal by mid-January.}}
{{OTTAWA, June 20 (Reuters) - Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Wednesday said the U.S. practice of separating immigrant children from their parents on the southern border was unacceptable and wrong.\nThe comments were by far the harshest by a member of the Canadian government, which is trying to prevent a trade war with the United States.\nTrudeau, under increasing political pressure to condemn Washington for the practice of splitting up families and putting children in enclosed detention centers, had said as recently as Monday that he would not play politics with the issue.\n"What is happening in the United States is unacceptable. I cannot imagine what these families are going through. Obviously this is not the way we do things in Canada," Trudeau told reporters.\nThe administration of U.S. President Donald Trump has faced intense criticism in the United States and from abroad over its "zero tolerance" policy under which immigrant children are being separated from their parents after they cross the U.S. border illegally.\nCanada's left-leaning opposition New Democrats want Trudeau's government to suspend a deal with Washington whereby asylum seekers who arrive at a formal Canadian border crossing from the United States are turned back.\nUnder the terms of the Safe Third Country Agreement, these people are told to apply for asylum in the United States, which is deemed safe. Critics say recent events show this is not the case.\n(Reporting by David Ljunggren Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Bill Berkrot)}}
{{The band shared the news with fans with the following statement, "All good things must come to an end... And it's now been 26 intense years of sacrifices for the thrash metal cause for us. Despite numerous setbacks, Dew-Scented never split up or even stopped for any significant amount of time. We were always blessed with great opportunities and a strong will to soldier onwards.\n"All in all, we have had an amazing ride with this music we love and not only played countless great shows across the globe, but released ten albums and most importantly, we made tons of life-long friendships along the way because of the band. But it's time to realize that we won't be able to forge ahead much further because Dew-Scented just won't work without complete and constant dedication. And giving such a full-time commitment simply isn't possible anymore because of how life otherwise evolved throughout the years." Read more - here.}}
{{Amal and George Clooney have donated $100,000 to the Young Center for Immigrant Children’s Rights, which advocates for the fair treatment and safety of immigrant children in the deportation process. The Young Center is one of the leading organizations fighting against the Trump administration’s new Border Patrol policy, which has separated over 2,000 immigrant children from their parents.\n“At some point in the future our children will ask us: is it true, did our country really take babies from their parents and put them in detention centers?” the Clooneys said in a statement. “And when we answer yes, they’ll ask us what we did about it. What we said. Where we stood. We can’t change this administration’s policy but we can help defend the victims of it.”\nIn the five days since news broke of President Donald Trump’s no-tolerance policy, which has been in effect since May, Hollywood has expressed outrage upon viewing photos and reading testimonies of immigrant families that have been forcibly divided.\nChrissy Teigen and John Legend are among the stars who have donated to aid the families. The couple gave $72,000 to the American Civil Liberties Union and encouraged others to donate what they can. Others, like Judd Apatow, Ava DuVernay, and Kumail Nanjiani, have been vocal on social media, calling the policy “cruel,” “torturing,” and “racist.” Many are comparing Trump’s actions to Nazi Germany and Japanese Internment Camps.\n“This Administration’s policy disregards international law and basic principles of human decency,” Young Center executive director Maria Woltjen said. “To treat children in such a cruel manner not only violates their legal rights but also their basic needs. We are doing everything we can to advocate on behalf of the thousands of children who are separated and alone, and we are grateful for the generous support of George and Amal Clooney and the Clooney Foundation for Justice — it could not be more vital at this time.”}}
{{I’ll be blunt; I’m here to vent my fury. On your behalf, dear reader! Honest. When a corporation gets things terribly wrong, those of us with platforms need to turn our wrath upon them. It’s the only feedback that actually matters. But there’s a larger issue here: the way that poisonously rigid corporate software, when it meets reality, can cause whole companies to plummet into death spirals.\nI’m a software developer. I understand that systems have bugs. I can even, if I squint and furrow my brow a lot, vaguely envision the kind of bug that might cause an airline to send luggage to Korea three days after its owner travelled from San Francisco to his final destination of Toronto, and two days after he, forewarned, expressly told them not to do so. (Yes, that’s actually what happened. Details in tweetstorm triptych here, here, and here.)\nBut the real measure of a company, or any organization, is not whether things go wrong. Things always go wrong. The real measure is how they they react. Do you quickly recognize it, adapt, and mitigate? Or do you set off a staggering cascade of miscommunication, noncommunication, denial, buck-passing, and further errors? More importantly: which of those two approaches do your systems and software incentivize?\n…Yeah, I think you already know where I’m going here.\nIt has become fashionable to offer customers support via Twitter. Or, in Air Canada’s case, “support,” which consisted of telling me to call a phone number that emanated a busy signal (a busy signal! I haven’t heard that in years!) rather than ringing; then, a phone number for people who informed me they were completely unable to help me; then, endless vague assurances that furthered neither the situation nor my understanding of it, along with admonishments that they were not really able to assist me further.\nThere was a web site, of course, which, thirty minutes before the luggage was finally (and miraculously) delivered, it still said “TRACING IN PROGRESS – CHECK BACK LATER.” There was a brief period, midway through the saga, when it actually reported useful information instead, but this was soon corrected. When I did reach phone support, after hours on hold, they called the wrong airports, sent emails and then failed to check the replies, and lied to me that they would call me back.\nOnce I got word that my bag had been sent to Korea — for literally no reason whatsoever — I achieved a kind of Ron Burgundy-esque satori in which I wasn’t even mad any more; I was actually kind of impressed by the dysfunctionality of a system that could fail so totally in so many different ways. I don’t know the inner workings of Air Canada’s “support” software and systems, obviously. But I can tell you from the outside that it robs its employees of any context, nuance, understanding, or actual authority. The failure mode of a poisonous system is a death-spiral feedback loop that quickly infects your employees, until they become amoral bureaucrats.\nAny business process, no matter how automated, always has to leave space for human judgement, nuance, and contextual understanding. (Yes, even Bitcoin.) In the last ditch this sometimes becomes, de facto, a developer running a handwritten custom SQL statement. Speaking as the guy who has been that developer, I can assure you; this is not a good solution. And the more your process interacts with the scary, unpredictable real world, the more space — and the more human beings — you need.\nThe alternative is what happened here; people who vaguely wanted to help — inasmuch as the oppressive nihilism of their automated professional constraints had left them with any sympathy at all — but were completely unable to do so, because their software and business processes gave them no tools, no levers, with which they might do their job in any meaningful way.\nBig businesses don’t have to be this way. (United Airlines, on whose codeshared ticket I flew the Air Canada flight, was terrific about all this from start to finish.) But when they are, in my experience, it tends to be symptomatic of a rot that started at the top.}}
{{As I write this sentence, the soundtrack from the movie, Rudy, is playing in the background. It always inspires me. By the next paragraph I might hear my favorite film score, Gladiator. The last song, “Now we are free”, gets me every time. I know it’s only a movie, but I want Russell Crowe to be reunited with his family. Thanks to streaming services like Pandora, I get to hear endless scores from composers such as Hans Zimmer, John Williams or James Horner.\nAll great presentations begin with writing. Most people don’t open a PowerPoint and randomly insert photos or type out bullet points. They think about how they want to articulate their ideas, what they want to say and how they want to say it. A great presentation should build like a great movie—tension, conflict, and a rousing ending.\nSince a great presentation tells a story, why not listen to a style of music that complements great stories on the big screen? Speechwriters and neuroscientists have weighed in on the topic.\nRonald Reagan’s speechwriter, Peggy Noonan, is a fan of listening to film scores as background music. In her article titled, Music in the Key of America, Noonan talks about the scores that remind her of America and its values. Noonan says Leonard Bernstein’s score for On the Waterfront is “dramatic, crashing, tender…it reminds me of the importance of everyday human endeavor—that even if you think you’re just a beat-up nobody, a former contender with a one-way ticket to Palookaville, you can find within yourself a nobility you never guessed was there.” That’s a lot of insight from a piece of music.\nOne of my daughters plays piano. We sat down together recently to watch a new documentary about film scores aptly titled, Score. In the documentary, psychology professor, Dr. Siu-Lan Tan, says movie soundtracks trigger many structures of the brain simultaneously. Melody and pitch are processed by one system in the brain, tempo and rhythm are processed in other parts of the brain. She says certain kinds of music trigger neurochemicals in the reward centers of the brain—the ventral striatum and nucleus accumbens. In non-scientific language, the music makes you feel good.\nMovie music can evoke a range of emotions. It can make you cry (Schindler’s List) run into battle (Braveheart) or just run (Rocky). Film scores and public speaking sometimes combine to make magic. In Score, composer Trevor Rabin recalls the night Barack Obama accepted the democratic party’s nomination in Chicago. His score from Remember the Titans was blaring in the background, which you can see here on YouTube. The video is from CNN, but its like a movie. If you watch the reaction of the crowd and listen to the music, there’s no question that the two—music and emotion— are connected. “If it gives me goose bumps, there’s a pretty likely chance it will give other people goose bumps,” Rabin said.\nFilm scores drive the narrative. Movies wouldn’t be the same without them. Perhaps listening to scores will infuse your next presentation with a little movie magic. It’s worth a try. The worst that can happen is you’ll feel like taking on the world.}}
{{When Quebec City's new farmers market opens to the public in 2018, shoppers looking for the perfect desert wine or fine cheese will also be able to pick up some sanbousak or a dozen maamoule — staples of authentic Syrian cuisine.\nThe women who will be cooking the delicacies and ringing up the cash register have just started rebuilding their lives in Quebec, after fleeing their homes in Syria.\n"I worked in Turkey as a cook, I'm very happy to be here with Mrs. Nour, very happy," said one of those women, Hanan Abdul Karim, taking her time to find the correct words in French.\nKarim has been taking French-language classes in Quebec City since she arrived in 2015 with her six children. A seventh is on the way.\nNour Sayem says the flavours of Syrian cuisine feature fresh herbs and spices, and the ingredients are all natural. (Julia Page/CBC)\nShe is one of nine Syrian women who now work part-time for the catering project Aliments Ensemble.\nThe women get together to cook traditional Syrian food as they learn to navigate the labyrinthine corridors of Quebec bureaucracy, when it comes to obtaining licenses and permits in the food industry.\nThey also learn about business management and how to find distributors, all while practising their French with customers.\n"They are so proud," said Nour Sayem, the founder of the non-profit organization.\nNour Sayem, left, is the founder of Aliments Ensemble, a non-profit program which has allowed Syrian women like Hanan Abdul Karim, right, to build a catering business from scratch. (Julia Page/CBC)\n"They come from war, and these ladies have exceptional resilience. I find them very strong."\n"At first their salaries were combined with their husbands, but now they ask me to have their own bank accounts," Sayem said with a laugh, adding she has managed to get the men on board.\n"They are with us, they support us, and this is the most important thing that I have done," Sayem said.\nSharing a lifetime of knowledge\nThe energetic woman can certainly relate to these families that left everything behind in Syria. She left the war-torn country in 1967 when she was just 15.\nSayem obtained a PhD in food science and technology, raising her two children with her husband, who she met in Quebec.\nSayem said when she wrote her autobiography a few years ago, she realized she could use her experience to welcome immigrants and help them get on their feet.\nHanan Abdul Karim started working as a cook when she fled Syria with her family in 2015. She now works part-time with Aliments Ensemble while she studies French and takes care of her six children. (Julia Page/CBC)\n"I know the Québécois, I know they are a big people. And I know Syrians; I know their language. So it's a new mission I gave to myself," she said.\nAfter hearing about a catering project for Syrian refugees in Saint-John, N.B, she decided she could recreate the concept in the city in which she's lived for the past 37 years.\nCommunity support\nOn the last weekend before the holidays, Karim was busy selling the last merchandise the women had prepared for 2017 at Quebec City's farmers market at the Old Port.\n"Salty, sweet, Syrian food is very good," she explained to people who stopped by for a taste.\nThe stall was offered to the women free of charge by the co-op of the Marché du Vieux-Port for the entire month of December, said Sayem.\nA local bakery also opened its kitchens on Sundays so the chefs could cook their products in a kitchen recognized by the province's food regulatory agency.\n"Everywhere you go, if you share food, it's a pacific way to get integrated." - Nour Sayem\nSayem said she is thankful but not surprised to see all this support, including backing from the city of Quebec.\nYoung Mathilde was visibly pleased with her choice of pistachio and butter Ghraïbé cookies. (Julia Page/CBC)\nIn 2018, Aliments Ensemble's knaffehs and stuffed vine leaves will be prepared in the brand new kitchens of the city's new farmers' market.\nLast spring, six women in the group received certification in food sanitation through Université Laval, learning along the way to improve their recipes.\n"It's beautiful, when you see these ladies who didn't speak a word of French when they got here, and now they text me in French," said Sayem.\nSayem says this will allow the women to continue the project's mission: to facilitate the integration of Syrian women but also introduce Syrian food and culture to Quebecers.\n"The only thing you can share with others is food. Music and food. It's an art. Everywhere you go if you share food, it's a pacific way to get integrated."}}
{{Martin Lewis, the man behind moneysavingexpert, has launched a new music price comparison service on Tuesday, hoping to allow music fans a way to find the cheapest music on the Web.\nThe new site, called TuneChecker.com, is in Lewis' words "all about finding the cheapest safe & legal single and album MP3 downloads".\nCurrently covering prices from nine of the major download retailers, including Amazon, iTunes, Tesco and We7 the site claims to cover over 9 million tracks.\nAs with other ventures from the "penny watcher", the service is free, instead opting to earn cash from affiliate links as people use the service to buy tracks.\nWith a wide variety of prices, most albums range from £3.97 up to £11.99, the new site could spark a price war between online retailers as they clamber to make the sale.}}
{{Spotify is testing a new ad unit called Sponsored Songs on its free service, which essentially allows labels to promote songs on playlists and elsewhere on its pages for a fee, the company confirmed to TechCrunch on Monday (and confirmed the report to Variety). A Spotify rep described the ad unit as “a product test for labels to promote singles on the free tier.”\nInitially anyway, Sponsored Songs will be integrated into playlists and will use the company’s algorithms to promote the songs to users based on their music tastes. While payment details were unclear and the process remains in beta, the report says that it will only be featured on the service’s free tier. There is also an opt-out option under Sponsored Content in the settings menu that would allow users to hide the ads from view, though it the company did not confirm whether that option would be available to free users or just Premium subscribers.\nIt’s a canny move by the service, both a relatively transparent and legal form of “playola” — the old-school and illegal radio practice of labels paying for airplay on certain songs, which sources say has long since infiltrated the playlist game — and also a subtle way of monetizing the level of trust many users feel toward both its popular product feature Discover Weekly (which creates a playlist of new music based on users’ previous tastes) and playlists like Rap Caviar. It’s also another bonus the service can get out of its free service, which has enraged labels and music publishers who say it is hampering efforts to steer users toward paid subscriptions.\nBut perhaps most of all, it’s another move by the profit-challenged company to make money. Spotify, which is expected to list itself on the stock market this or next year, released a very mixed annual financial statement last week: While it claimed to have reached 140 million users, both its revenue and operating loss grew significantly in 2016, and it showed an operating loss of some 349 million Euros ($389 million) compared with a 236 million Euro loss the previous year. Its gross profit was just $502 million.}}
{{Ross Golan\nLike many creative freelance types, I'm an avid consumer of podcasts. So when I stumbled across "And The Writer Is..." the new podcast hosted by hit songwriter Ross Golan, I stopped everything and listened. To every single episode. You can call him the Marc Maron of pop songwriting — the man on the inside giving the rest of us a glimpse. Golan interviews the writers behind pop music's biggest songs, and in doing so, reveals the personalities and culture of the music industry. It's essential listening for anyone pursuing music.\nBut Golan has an incredible story himself. After being in rock bands with record contracts, he scored number one songs for Selena Gomez, Flo Rida and Lady Antebellum. He wrote a musical that's currently being recorded for an album. And most recently, he was named 2017 BMI Songwriter of the Year. So I was excited to flip the script, and have Ross in the hot seat. Here's our conversation:\nDanny Ross: Before we get into the weeds, congrats on being BMI Songwriter of the Year! Maybe take us inside writing some of those hit songs?\nRoss Golan: Well, with "Dangerous Woman," my wife walked in and said, "Why don't you make it faster?" and then she left the room. Just like that, she made the melody more singable. Then I brought it to my main co-writer Johan Carlsson, and he played it on piano and added some different melodies.\n"Same Old Love" was me and Charlie XCX writing to a guitar-based track. [Hit-making producer team] Stargate stripped the track, and put a totally different chord progression and feel underneath it. That's Stargate's strength — they're not precious about anything! It's just a song.\nAnd "My House" was also me and Johan. We spent twelve minutes writing something more Adele-esque, and then he morphed into this piano part. All of a sudden we free-styled the biggest song of my career.\nRoss: So what are the different types of songwriters in modern pop?\nGolan: If the big umbrella is Songwriter, underneath that you have Topliners who write the lyrics and melody — and Producers who make the beats.\nMy focus is on lyrics and melody. If this were 1955, I'd be called a songwriter and the beat guy would be the producer. People are really back to writing songs now, it's not as beat-driven. When you look at Harry Styles' "Sign of the Times" and Miley Cyrus' "Malibu," they're much more song-oriented.\nRoss: What makes L.A. unique as a songwriting city?\nGolan: In Nashville, every writer can play guitar, piano, sing and write lyrics. But in L.A., it doesn't work that way. People are very specialized here. In my session today, for example, I'll probably be ninety-five percent melody and five percent lyrics. But there are rooms where I'm the main lyrics guy. It all depends on who you write with and what the dynamic is.\nNew York's really tough. Nashville has a great country scene and Atlanta has a massive urban scene. But if you're doing pop music, you basically have to live in L.A. or maybe Stockholm.\nRoss: You came to pop writing from being in rock bands, including Glacier Hiking. How did that experience help you?\nGolan: Imagine being an opening artist where nobody goes there to see you perform. You learn very quickly how to be efficient with lyrics and melodies, and to make songs for them. Headlining is easy— your friends and fans are there to see you perform. But the opening band learns to master the art of including the audience.\nSimilarly, my job now is to sell air for a living. I have to go in and grab the listener, and convince them to spend time, money, effort and emotion on this nonexistent material thing.\nRoss: But do you miss performing?\nGolan: I sing every day! Name one guy in a band that sings every day. I perform in front of the greatest artists of our generation. I sing in the booth, and they replicate what I do. How crazy is that?\nRoss: Do you have specific artists in mind when you're writing in a session?\nGolan: I like aiming for an artist. It gives you a direction, lyrically and melodically. For example, we wrote "Marilyn Monroe" for Demi Lovato, who was in the next room. But she left, and Nicki Minaj heard it and wanted to cut it. And that's so not who you'd aim that song for.\nSo don't aim for a new artist that just got signed; aim for Rihanna and Justin Bieber, and let it fall to somebody else. Don't aim for the middle, aim for the top.\nRoss: You wrote number ones for both pop and country. What's the difference?\nGolan: In pop music, I have to find a unique way to say "I'm lonely," which is difficult because it's such a cliche. But in country I can say, "Your side of the bed is still unmade." So much of that flavor is in the fat, the extra lyric.\nOne of the hard parts for me is that I didn't grow up on a dirt road, so I can't authentically write country lyrics unless I write with other people, or if the country artist is willing to cut more of a pop song. In fact, a lot of the country guys listen to pop. Country writers like Ashley Gorley and Luke Laird will know the top ten pop songs, they're super aware of it. Those Nashville writers are geniuses.\nBut country and hip-hop play only to English-speaking audiences, and they don't tend to travel internationally. In pop music I'm writing for people who speak any language, so lyrically it's a whole different process.\nLester Cohen\nRoss: What's the average day like for a pop songwriter?\nGolan: Writers who are just starting out tend to work morning, noon and night. There were times in my life I was doing double sessions, seven days a week. But now I'm trying to normalize things so I have more to write about. There's no doubt that by writing less, I've become better. By Monday, I'm excited to go back into the studio because I haven't been writing every day. I know a lot of people who succeed at doing double sessions all the time, but I like having dinner with my wife and my dog. If I worked twenty-four hours a day, that's what my songs would sound like — and I don't think people relate to that.\nWe're adults making music. This is a profession. I never drink or smoke. I don't mind what people do on their free time, but this is a job. Some people think you need to party in the studio to make a party record. Pharrell will tell an artist to meet up at five a.m. because it's quiet.\nRoss: Co-writing is a big part of the pop culture. How has co-writing changed your craft?\nGolan: I think co-writing humbles you. You can't have an ego because you're in the room with people who are better than you. It's about being honest with yourself, and the willingness to be wrong. And there's no one way to do it.\nIf somebody walked in and said, "This is a hit!" and they're not amenable to changes, then the session's over. I want to inspire the people I write with to push themselves.\nRoss: But is there more value in writing alone like, say, Bob Dylan?\nGolan: Some people feel if they write on their own it has more value. But when you think about it historically, that's not how great songs were written. The myth is that there was just one guy writing the song in, say, 1960. But they just weren't giving songwriting credit to a lot of the people who were making the music. When you hear people complain that there are twelve writers on a song now, that's because we actually just give credit where credit is due.\nThe guy who played the bass-line on "Super Freak" is probably playing in some jazz club in Toronto right now. He got no songwriting credit and made no money. Now, we give credit to that guy! This generation is making a change and sharing the publishing. I'd be a much richer guy if it was the older way, but it doesn't mean it's the right way.\nRoss: Do you ever write to a beat that's already recorded?\nGolan: Some artists and bands will send me the beat first, and I'll try to write a song around that. It's funny, Savan Kotecha says that writing to a beat is like writing a screenplay to special effects.\nRoss: Do you ever produce the tracks as well?\nGolan: I'm involved with the writing as much as possible, and sometimes even the mixing can be considered part of songwriting. I'll give notes as long as I can until the song is great. But I don't want to tweak the sound of a snare and the frequencies coming out of the high hat. To me, I can spend that hour either living my life or writing lyrics. I'm an okay producer, but I'm around the best producers in the world. At some point you have to learn what you're good at.}}
{{While fuming and ranting about the number of immigrants entering the United States in a meeting over the summer, President Donald Trump reportedly "grumbled" that thousands of Haitian immigrants "all have AIDS," according to an explosive account published by the New York Times on Saturday.\nTrump—reading from a document that "listed how many immigrants had received visas to enter the United States in 2017"—also reportedly said that once seeing the U.S., Nigerian immigrants would never "go back to their huts" in Africa.\nThe details of the June meeting in the Oval Office were relayed to the Times by two anonymous administration officials who found the comments "so noteworthy that they related them to others at the time." One of the officials attended the meeting, and the other was briefed on the meeting by a different official who was in attendance.\nThe White House denied the officials' account of the meeting in a statement provided to the Times in advance of its story, calling it "outrageous."\nAccording to the Times, the meeting became increasingly tense after White House adviser Stephen Miller and chief of staff John Kelly began blaming Secretary of State Rex Tillerson for the number of immigrants entering the country.\n"Tempers flared and Mr. Kelly asked that the room be cleared of staff members. But even after the door to the Oval Office was closed, aides could still hear the president berating his most senior advisers," the Times reports.\nThe Times' account of the summer meeting comes just hours after a federal appeals court ruled that Trump exceeded his executive authority in the latest iteration of his Muslim ban. It also comes just over a month after the Trump administration announced that it would end Temporary Protected Status for tens of thousands of Haitians who have been living and working in the U.S. since the catastrophic 2010 earthquake.\nTrump's reported comments sparked a firestorm of outrage, and many placed the remarks alongside Trump's previous claim that some Mexican immigrants are "rapists" who are bringing "crime" and "drugs" into the U.S.\n"Even if the comments reported on Saturday go one step beyond what Trump might say in public (and it's a small step) they certainly feel like a plausible representation of the man 63 million Americans voted for—the man whose xenophobia has made America more closed off to the world than it has been in generations," concluded Benjamin Hart of New York Magazine.\npeople obsess over "dogwhistles" because it's more comfortable than confronting what's in front of them, but "Haitians all have AIDS," "Nigerians live in huts," and "Mexicans are rapists" are all very direct expressions of an extremely racist worldview — Tim Murphy (@timothypmurphy) December 23, 2017\nSUPPORT COMMON DREAMS WITH A YEAR-END CONTRIBUTION TODAY Common Dreams has been bringing the progressive community the news that matters for over 20 years. We rely on support from thousands of small contributors to keep publishing. More people are reading Common Dreams than ever before but the number of readers contributing has remained flat. If everyone reading this gave our End-of-Year campaign a tax-deductible contribution right now, we would start 2018 strong. Its also crazy that no-one says something like, "Mr President, thats kinda racist" or even "not all Haitians have aids, Sir." No push-back at all. Just a group of racist white dudes and their silent enablers making immigration policy like its 1917. pic.twitter.com/eLHnhLOM1l — Don Moynihan (@donmoyn) December 23, 2017}}
{{The music of James Taylor and Carole King is coming to Grimsby Auditorium next month in a brand new show.\nYou’ve Got A Friend tells the story of a friendship intertwined with the music that shaped a generation.\nFeaturing classic hits such as I Feel The Earth Move, Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow, How Sweet It Is (To Be Loved By You), Fire & Rain, You Make Me Feel (Like A Natural Woman), Sweet Baby James, and You’ve Got A Friend, the show stars West End performers Emily Jollands as Carole King and Bill Lennon as James Taylor.\nIt is at the Auditorium on September 3 at 7.30pm and tickets are available now at http://bit.ly/2b8BY4Q}}
{{socastcmsRssStartJay JanowersocastcmsRssEnd\nBarclay Parneta tells Jay about becoming the Vancouver Giants new general manager of the hockey club.}}
{{Last night, Bloomberg reported that Spotify is preparing to soften its recent “hateful conduct” policy that resulted in artists like R. Kelly and XXXTentacion being removed from the service’s curated playlists. Per Bloomberg, Spotify is bowing to both internal and external pressure, with the former reportedly coming in part from Troy Carter—the company’s head of artist relations, who also used to manage Lady Gaga and is currently the custodian of Prince’s posthumous music—who supposedly threatened to quit over the new policy. But most interesting is one person who may have been applying that external pressure. From Bloomberg:\nRepresentatives for several acts, including rapper Kendrick Lamar, called Spotify Chief Executive Officer Daniel Ek and head of artist relations Troy Carter to express their frustration. They also threatened to pull their music if the company maintained its current policy.\nThe wording here is either pointedly vague or confusingly sloppy. It would be a big deal if Kendrick Lamar, recent Pulitzer Prize winner and the mainstream rapper perhaps most seen to represent the genre’s moral center, threw his considerable weight around to get XXXTentacion back on Spotify’s powerful rap playlists. Based on Bloomberg’s wording–“representatives for several acts”–it’s possible, as Genius’ Brendan Frederick speculated on Twitter, that UMG, Kendrick’s label, is leveraging its established stars in order to salvage its budding one. On the other hand, back in August 2017, Kendrick tweeted a link to X’s album 17, writing, “listen to this album if you feel anything. raw thoughts.”\nA representative for Lamar did not respond to a request for comment.}}
{{Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Taylor Swift recently put her music back onto Spotify.\nSpotify has confirmed it is experimenting with allowing music labels to promote songs by adding them to users' playlists as sponsored content.\nThe Swedish-based music platform said subscription payers were not included in the small trial.\nThose whose accounts are affected are able to opt out via the settings.\nSpotify has more than 140 million active users but continues to operate at a loss.\nIt recently revealed that while it had revenues of more than 2.9bn euros (£2.6bn) in 2016, it reported a net loss of 539.2m euros (£471.6m).\n"This is not the silver bullet but instead part of what will be a multi-faceted answer to Spotify's margin woes," said Mark Mulligan, managing director of Midia research.\n"In a broader context, this may presage a wider strategy similar to that of Facebook's, whereby it effectively starts charging artists and labels for access to fans."\nSpotify is considering becoming a public company and listing on the stock market.\nIt says it has more than 50 million subscribers, who can access its library of 30 million tracks without advertising.\nThe monthly subscription is currently £9.99 in the UK, $9.99 in the US and 9.99 euros in France. The company operates in 60 countries.\n"We are always testing new promotional tools that deliver the highest relevancy to our users," Spotify said in a statement.}}
{{The competitions don’t get much bigger for young female hockey players, and the girls from northern B.C. keep rising to the challenge. For the second year in a row, the Northern Wolfpack has won the Canada Cup West.\nThe team is comprised of young female hockey players selected from across the region. Those selected were from Williams Lake, Prince George, Vanderhoof, Houston, Smithers and Prince Rupert.\nPrince Rupert was represented by Maddy Niesh along with Nicole Bateman from Smithers and Breanna Heimech from Houston, all three of whome were playing on the squad for the second year. They were joined by newcomer Gabriella Meier from Smithers.\nREAD MORE: Female rep hockey building in the north\nThe Wolfpack got off to a good start with a close victory but narrowly made it to the semi-finals as they ended the round robin schedule with two wins and two losses.\nAt this point, the team changed gears and took things to a different level.\nThey knocked out the Junior Pandas from Edmonton with an intense game by a single goal. In the final, they met a strong Kamloops U10 JR Blazers team.\nThe Blazers had topped the Wolfpack 3-1 in their round robin meeting with and came out confident and strong in the the gold medal match\nThe Wolfpack were down by three goals by the middle of the second period. That’s when the howling started.\nThe Wolfpack scored early in the third period and continued to dominate the play. Midway through the third they scored again to come within a single goal with a 3-2 score.\nREAD MORE: MVP of the Week – Maddy Niesh is scoring like the pros\nThe goalie was pulled in the last minute-and-a-half, and playing with no holds barred, they scored an equalizer in the dying seconds of regular time.\nThey went into overtime with the same confidence and determination and scored the winner after only 11 seconds to take the gold.\nParent Colin Bateman is a fan of the competition.\n“The girls get to meet players from around the country at these tournaments and make some very strong bonds with their teammates. I hope it runs again next year,” he said. “The final was super exciting and even though we were down by three going into the third, I felt we still had a chance.”}}
{{DAR ES SALAAM (Reuters) - Tanzania is not targeting foreign employees of Acacia Mining Plc, the immigration department said, adding that the temporary detainment of one the London-listed miner's senior staff was part of wider checks in an immigration crackdown.\nGold miner Acacia said on Friday that Tanzanian authorities had prevented one of its senior staff from leaving Dar es Salaam airport.\nAfter legal intervention, he was released and his passport was returned. "The immigration department ... does not target only Acacia Mining employees," the Tanzania Immigration Services Department said in a statement late on Saturday. Acacia, the country's largest miner, said last week it had been hit with a $190 billion tax bill and warned it would have to close its flagship Bulyanhulu mine by Sept. 30 if a government ban on its exports is not lifted.\n"We are required by law to question any Tanzanian citizen or foreigner regardless of his position ... and release them without charge if their immigration papers are in order as in the case of employees of Acacia Mining who were recently questioned," the immigration department said.\nIt added that there were no factors outside of the requirements of the Immigration Act that would prompt the department to restrict the entrance or exit of Acacia's expatriate employees.\nPresident John Magufuli has threatened to shut all gold mines in the country if mining companies delay talks to resolve a dispute over billions of dollars in back taxes which the government says they owe. Majority-owned by Canada's Barrick Gold Corp, Acacia says it is in full compliance with the law and has paid all relevant taxes. Magufuli's stance has rocked the mining sector in Tanzania, Africa's fourth-largest gold producer, and driven Acacia's shares down by more than 50 percent this year. Barrick, which owns a 63.9 percent stake in Acacia, said last week it has an "open mind" and is "very positive" about talks getting underway with Tanzania to resolve an export ban on gold and copper concentrates. Magufuli and Barrick Chairman John Thornton agreed at a mid-June meeting to hold discussions to resolve the row. Acacia has two mines affected by the ban which Tanzania introduced in March. They account for some 6 percent of Barrick's 2017 gold production forecast.}}
{{CTVNews.ca Staff\nOriginally starting in France, yellow vest protests have moved to Canada. Many were held Saturday across the country criticizing the tax and immigration policies of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his government.\nThe protests against French President Emmanuel Macron’s government, which began as a criticism of fuel taxes have entered their fifth week. Over 66,000 people decided to defy the government’s orders to suspend protests this past weekend. At least eight people have been killed since riots began in that country.\nSimilar demonstrations have taken place in Belgium, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom in the last several weeks.\nThey made their way to Canada on Saturday, with protests and counter-protests hitting cities including Saskatoon, Toronto, Moncton, N.B., Calgary, Halifax and Edmonton.\nProtests spurred on by carbon taxes, pipelines\nIn the Maritimes, a small local group of demonstrators gathered in front of Halifax’s City Hall criticizing a laundry list of issues including Trudeau’s carbon tax.\n“I have never met even one Canadian that understands how a carbon tax is going to reduce carbon emissions,” protester James Hoskins told CTV Atlantic. Another demonstrator, Barry Ahern, criticized Trudeau’s summer grant program which he called “oppression of Canadians by our own people.”\nIn Calgary, a large rally began outside the downtown Kerby Centre, with protester Craig Chandler telling CTV Calgary that people were upset over pipelines and Trudeau’s leadership in general.\n“Ever since France has been doing it, everybody wants to do it, “ said Chandler, a member of the Progressive Group for Independent Business, who also called out Calgary Centre MP Kent Hehr.\n“We want to know from our MP why he’s done nothing on the pipeline problem, why he’s done nothing on oil and gas when he represents oil and gas,” Chandler said. “We want to know why Quebec is getting $13 billion in transfer payments when we’re hurting.”\nHehr acknowledged the difficulties in the city but stressed his government’s commitment to some pipeline construction — including the Trans Mountain expansion.\n“There is no doubt that we want to ensure that when Alberta does well, Canada does well,” he said.\nGrievances included taxes, immigration\nMeanwhile, in Toronto, a group of about 60 protesters, gathered in Nathan Philips Square to voice frustration about the status quo.\nWhile carbon taxes and immigration were the focus of protests in North Bay, Ont., where a counter-protest took place in the town’s multicultural centre.\nIn Edmonton, there was tension between the yellow vest demonstrators and counter-protesters with hundreds gathering at the Alberta Legislature. Many had shown up to criticize the province’s high taxes and voice concern over the future of the province’s energy industry.\n“I’m tired of Trudeau basically doing what he wants with our money and sending it overseas,” Turk, a yellow-vested protestor, told CTV Edmonton. “Right now, personally, I’m facing a job crisis. All our oil jobs are gone, all our money is going south.”\nIn many cities, last week’s signing of the UN’s Global Compact for Migration in Morocco is what drove their anger. Canada was among the 164 nations that signed on. The United States was not.\nDespite demonstrators’ claims that the pact will open Canada’s borders in never-before-seen ways, it is not legally binding and Canada has not agreed to changing its immigration laws in accordance with it.\nCounter-protesters say demonstrations had racial aspects\nYellow vest protesters in several cities were met with opposition with many denouncing the protests.\nIn Halifax, social activist and counter-protester Rana Zaman argued some people were only upset with a particular type of migration,\n“Somehow immigration automatically too many equals Muslims,” she said.\n“People are drowning in poverty, we are not taking care of our veterans, our seniors are not being respected, they are dying in hallways,” she said. “Our healthcare is suffering, people are waiting years and years for surgery. That’s what I want to fight for.”\nIn Edmonton, yellow vest protesters went to Winston Churchill Square and came face to face with a small group of counter-protesters. Those critical of yellow vest movements called them anti-globalist and said there were elements of racism involved.\n“I am here to fight racism and to fight hatred that is being put up by this group,” said Edmonton counter-protester Adebaya Quinitiiti. “That anger they have is going to tear them apart. Things can be talked through without hatred, without racism.”\nMultiple protesters in Edmonton were arrested after several scuffles between the two groups.\nWith reports from CTV Atlantic’s Emily Baron Cadloff , CTV Northern Ontario, CTV Calgary’s Brad MacLeod, CTV Edmonton’s Timm Bruch and The Associated Press}}
{{(CNN) Migrant and refugee organizations in Hungary are facing an uncertain future after the country's parliament passed legislation Wednesday that criminalizes helping undocumented immigrants, including asylum seekers.\nThe legislation makes several basic human-rights activities illegal. Helping refugees fill in forms, distributing information to asylum seekers about how to claim refuge or organizing professional networks to help migrants could result in a possible jail sentence as punishment, according to the Hungarian Helsinki Committee, a human-rights group.\nOnly five lawmakers voted against the bill, with 159 voting for it. The legislation was proposed by Prime Minister Viktor Orban's ruling right-wing Fidesz party, which holds a super-majority in parliament.\nIt will become law in one or two weeks, according to a spokesperson for the the Hungarian parliament.\nThe vote went ahead in defiance of a request by the Venice Commission , a Council of Europe body that advises on constitutional matters, to postpone until the commission's report on the legislation is published Friday.\nRead More}}
{{Complete Guide To Burning ManAn additional resource to all there is to know about attending this year's Burning Man\nAmerica's 5 Most Relaxing Lazy RiversKick back and relax on an inflatable tube at any of the five most relaxing lazy rivers in America\n6 Ways To Protect Your Favorite BeachIt’s summer, a time we all head to our favorite water spot—river, pond, lake, ocean. Some of us rent a beach house. Why? Being near water calms us down, restores our spirit, and...\n7 Most Beautiful Mountain Ranges In The WorldThe world is home to phenomenally beautiful mountain ranges, formed tens of millions of years ago when colliding tectonic plates folded and upthrusted, buckling from the powerful movement. Today, we appreciate their vastly different appearances..}}
{{Laurel Hilbert arrived in the United States in August of 2013 as a blind, homeless 17-year-old named Ahmad. His birthplace — Deir al-Zour, in Syria — was in the process of being destroyed by war. He was completely alone and unable to speak or understand English. Almost four years later, Laurel has a job, a green card and a new life as a college student in San Francisco. The journey has included stops in Saudi Arabia, Los Angeles and New York City, and more than a little luck, pluck and determination.\n“It didn’t make a lot of sense to me, but I had to do it,” Laurel says of his decision to leave his family and move to the U.S. “Being blind, going to a completely different culture, and not knowing the language — I mean, who does that? 'You’re crazy,' some people say to me. Maybe they’re right, but if I wasn’t crazy I wouldn’t be where I am now.”\nWhen Laurel was a child, before the current conflict began in Syria, his family moved to Saudi Arabia for his father’s work. The business thrived, but the boy did not. He says Saudi Arabia was not a welcoming place for a disabled foreigner who was prone to asking questions, and he felt that he was considered “a burden on society." The word from the country he left was not encouraging, either: the family home had been broken into. Friends were killed. A cousin, forced to join the join the Syrian army, died in service. An uncle simply disappeared.\nDespite not speaking a word of English, he applied to study the language in the U.S. He was granted a student visa on his third attempt. Laurel left Saudi Arabia alone, buying a ticket on borrowed cash, and flew to Los Angeles — a place he picked because he knew of it, and because he thought wrongly that Harvard, which he had heard described online as the best college in the U.S., must be nearby. He spent one night in a hotel and left his luggage in the lobby; he never returned for it, unable to find his way back, and began sleeping in a park instead.\nMORE: The War Through Syrian Eyes\nWhen he got a chance to speak to his family back in Saudi Arabia, he lied and said he was doing well and staying with friends.\nThere was a boy in the park who spoke no English.\nThat was the message that Samar Ghannoum got in late 2013, from a person she knew through volunteer work in her community in Southern California. As someone who spoke Arabic, would she mind trying to find out what he needed? After all, even in L.A., nights get cold. Ghannoum called the phone number she had been given and reached the boy, and then told her husband they had to leave immediately. They brought sandwiches, in case the boy was hungry. Outside the mall where he had said they could find him, she called his name.\n“I heard yes , in Arabic, I'm here . And both of us were so devastated, me and my husband, to see he was finding his way with a stick,” she recalls.\nHe said he was 17, but he looked younger to her. By the way he ate the sandwiches it was clear that he had been in the park for a while. Ghannoum and her husband felt they had no choice but to bring him to their house. Ghannoum later helped him get a place in a high school, find a place to live, and connect with someone who could introduce him to a lawyer, Nabil Atalla, who would help him apply for asylum. Though Laurel had come to the U.S. lawfully on his student visa, he would need to be reclassified if he wanted to stay legally.\nAtalla recalls that one of his first thoughts about Laurel was being impressed that he had managed to navigate the city's complicated bus system to make their appointment on time. Even L.A. natives with full sight who speak perfect English might have trouble with that, he notes. It’s a small point, but telling: Laurel's ability to figure out complicated systems — from bus routes to bureaucracy — has shaped his life just as much as his innate perseverance. Even his adopted name is an illustration of his combination of stubbornness and preternatural skill with red tape: When a mix-up at his L.A. high school left him with another student’s ID card, he was irritated by a teacher’s insistence that Laurel — the name on the card — surely couldn’t be his real name. He changed his own first name legally so that it was, and picked Hilbert as a last name after the German mathematician David Hilbert, in hopes that would inspire him to like math more. (It hasn't worked yet, he acknowledges.) Laurel says changing his name was an assertion that his new life is so different that he has become, in some ways, a new person.\nLaurel began the process of applying for affirmative asylum, as opposed to a defensive application. In this situation, people who have come to the U.S. legally but temporarily bring their cases to the asylum office. They undergo a full background check, with fingerprinting, and then are thoroughly interviewed by officials about their claims. The process often takes months, depending on the backlog.\nHe remembers the immigration interview as terrifying. Though he had already written out his statement explaining why he could not return to Syria — detailing the abuse he had suffered for being different from others, the fear he felt about what would happen if he were forced to return to a war zone — he found that it was something else to speak those words in front of an interpreter, his lawyer and an immigration officer, knowing that more people were listening in on the phone.\nHis application was granted in April of 2014, which he credits to a higher power — not quite the God of Islam with which he grew up, but a nebulous spirit he feels at work in the way that things sometimes fall into place.\n“You know that kind of joy,” he says, recalling the day he got the good news. “A friend of mine was asking me, ‘Why are you crying?’ I’m like, ‘I’m just really joyful. I feel that I am getting closer to my goal every single day that passes by.’”\nBy this point, Laurel had been living in a shelter for young people and attending a public high school in L.A. His English had become strong. But in the summer of 2015, he found himself in a bind: his educational assistance was contingent on having a permanent address, while the shelter he was in would not allow him to stay longer because he received social security benefits for his disability. So he decided to move to New York City. A new city would be nothing compared to moving to a new country, he thought.\nMORE: Finding Home — Syrian Refugee Babies in Greece\nOnce again homeless, he was in Union Square during rush hour when, in what might be called the second serendipitous chapter of Laurel’s American life, a man named Steven McLaurin noticed a boy with a white cane being practically trampled by pedestrians. McLaurin offered to walk with him to his destination — which happened to be the Department of Education, so he could register for school and disability services.\n“I later learned that, on a regular basis, his walking cane was broken by people who would just step on it. I think when I met him, the struggle was very real for him,” McLaurin says. “My first impression of him was that he was just a kid, and that there was a definite kindness to him. He didn’t ask for much, but he respected what I had to give to him in that moment.”\nLaurel got back into high school, starting at a city public school before switching to an online high school — the same one from which Kylie Jenner received a diploma, he points out — so that he would have the flexibility to work. He also began classes, sponsored by the Department of Education, to learn how to use technology that would allow him to hold a job despite his blindness, discovering the growing world of vision-assistance apps. (A fastidious dresser, he also uses an app to make sure his clothes match.) He found a place in a shelter. He began to volunteer for organizations like New York Cares. He has a stubborn streak — something his mother, speaking to TIME via Skype in late 2016, attributed to his being a Capricorn — and insists on his ability to get what’s best. Everywhere he went, he talked to people about what he hoped to achieve. Some of them, like McLaurin, became his friends.\nAnd he had more reason than ever to be glad that he had come to the U.S. His father’s business in Saudi Arabia had collapsed and the family was forced to move back to Syria in 2014, as the civil war ramped up.\nThere, Laurel’s oldest brother, who is also blind, was arrested for not having fulfilled his military service. The family paid to get their son released, but with another brother approaching his mandatory service age they knew they could not stay. Laurel's mother and five siblings fled to Turkey. His father, with whom Laurel has had a distant and strained relationship, fled to the U.S. in the hopes of establishing a beachhead for the family. He successfully applied for asylum and became an Uber driver in New Jersey and New York.\nAs Laurel got settled in New York, he began to look for a job. One day, on the subway, his thoughts were interrupted by a woman asking him whether he had run the Brooklyn half-marathon. It turned out Laurel was wearing a T-shirt from the event. Though normally meticulous about his clothes, he was having a bad day and had thrown something on without paying much attention.\nMORE: The White Helmets of Syria\nThey got to talking and the woman, Dawn Henning, told him that she worked at a language school and translation company, Rennert International. She gave him her card and, in a turn by then typical of Laurel’s life story, he was soon working there as an intern. (It was another random subway encounter that brought him to the attention of TIME; he asked this writer's then-boyfriend for directions and soon shared his life story.)\n“I think one thing about Laurel is he always approaches everything with a big smile. So it kind of sets the person at ease who's talking to him,” Henning says. “The only time we ever had a little bit of an issue, Laurel called me one day and he said that he really needed to talk to me. It was really serious, and I was like, uh-oh. And he said he wanted me to stop treating him like he was blind. Just treat him like everybody else.”\nHis internship at Rennert became a job as as an international outreach assistant, manning the front desk and communicating with the company's representatives abroad. Henning says that Laurel is the most ambitious person she’s ever met and one of the most inspiring.\nIt makes sense, because before anyone else helped Laurel Hilbert, Laurel Hilbert helped himself.\nTrue, his goals change, like any young person’s will — in the time this story has been in the works, he has wanted to be a neurologist, a linguist, an interpreter, a real-estate agent and a business person. He has become something of an activist for jobs for the blind, speaking at a conference about what it’s like to be an employee with vision impairments, and about how technology can help. He even joined Toastmasters for a while, polishing his public speaking. Now, he hopes to study abroad in Japan, after becoming enchanted with the country. It was that same hope that brought him to San Francisco this June, to take Japanese classes and make another fresh start.\nIt sounds unlikely, but so did everything else that’s happened to him in the last few years.\nLaurel received his green card in 2015 and is one step closer to becoming a citizen, a milestone for which he'll be eligible in 2020. Since then, his mother and five siblings have joined him in the U.S., renting a home in New York City’s Staten Island. There, before Laurel moved out west, his mother stoically described what her son has been through as “a great adventure” — and she would know, having been through one of her own.\nIt was Jan. 27, 2017, when the family, in Istanbul, finally received the visas they had applied for in 2014 and that had been approved last summer. They were planning to come quickly, to see Laurel and his father for the first time in years. But on the same day the visas arrived, President Donald Trump signed his executive order on immigration , indefinitely suspending the admission of all refugees and immigrants from Syria. An email from the consulate informed Laurel’s family that their visas were no longer valid, they say, and officials at the airport in Turkey would not let them through security.\nWhen a judge blocked the implementation of Trump's order , the family rushed back to the airport, trying to secure a flight in the midst of the ensuing confusion. On Feb. 5, the six of them finally arrived at Kennedy Airport in New York. There have been some difficult adjustments since then — physical distance can sometimes disappear more quickly than emotional distance does — but you don't need a visa to bridge the latter.\nWhat the family has gone through has not changed Laurel's opinion of his adopted country as a place full of people who are willing to help, if only you ask. When he has gone to protest immigration issues, it has been with appreciation for the rights he has not always enjoyed.\n“This country is not brutal. It’s not perverse. It’s not regressive. It’s not insular. This country is the place for all those who are hopeful or want to better their lives,” Laurel says. “My opinion never changed about America or the American people.”\nBut Samar Ghannoum and Steven McLaurin and Dawn Henning and the many other people who have helped Laurel make it, know that that’s not always the case. It’s easier to say no.\nIt would have been easy for Ghannoum to give the boy a sandwich but stop short of inviting him into her home. It would have been easy for McLaurin to point him in the right direction but not walk the rest of the way. It would have been easy for Henning to make polite small talk but not give her business card, to offer an internship but not a job, to offer a job but not a seat at her Thanksgiving table.\nThere will always be obstacles for Laurel to overcome. San Francisco's infamously difficult housing market has been especially tough to navigate with a service dog, and though Rennert has allowed him to work remotely, he's finding the lack of an office to be a big adjustment. But he has the experience to keep it all in perspective. "Moving to a new place is always a little bit challenging at first," Laurel says. And odds are, Laurel will find more new friends to help ease his way.\nVideo by Arpita Aneja - Story by Lily Rothman}}
{{ZAMBOANGA CITY (MindaNews / 14 June) – Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is holding the Abu Sayyaf “fully responsible for this cold-blooded and senseless murder” of kidnap victim Robert Hall, whose severed head was found in Jolo Monday night, and vowed to work “with the Philippine government and international partners” to pursue the perpetrators and “bring them to justice, however long it takes.”\n“The vicious and brutal actions of the hostage-takers have led to a needless death,” Trudeau said.\nPhotos of the three foreigners abducted from a resort in Samal, Davao del Norte on Sept. 21. Courtesy of EastMinCom\nHall was executed by the Abu Sayyaf after the 3 p.m. Monday deadline for payment of ransom lapsed. His severed head was recovered near the Cathedral of the Lady of Mount Carmel in Jolo, Sulu Monday evening and was brought to the headquarters of the 2nd Marine Brigade.\nCol. Custodio Parcon, 2nd Marine Brigade Commander, could not be reached but sources in the brigade told MindaNews that Hall’s head, wrapped in a bloody rice sack, was delivered to the camp by residents. A bystander at the vicinity where it was found said the sack was thrown from a motorcycle with riders in tandem, at past 8 in the evening.\nHall was reported to have been beheaded at the vicinity of Mount Bunga in Talipao town, a 45-minute drive from Jolo.\nHall was the second Canadian beheaded by the Abu Sayyaf in two months. On April 25, mining executive John Ridsdel, was executed, his severed head also thrown that evening by motorcycle-riding men towards a group of basketball players near the municipal hall.\nHall and Ridsdel were abducted along with Norwegian national Kjartan Sekkingstad, and Hall’s Filipina partner Maritess Flor, from a resort in the Island Garden City of Samal on September 21, 2015.\nJustice, however long it takes\n“We are more committed than ever to working with the Government of the Philippines and international partners to pursue those responsible for these heinous acts and bring them to justice, however long it takes,” Trudeau said.\nOn Monday morning, Abu Sayyaf spokesperson Muammar Askali, a.k.a. Abu Rami, sent a warning through local residents that if their 3 p.m. deadline for payment of P600 million peso ransom will not be met, they would behead the remaining three victims from Samal.\nThere have been no reports of execution of the two other victims.\nLast week, on June 8, four Malaysian kidnap victims were released reportedly following the payment by the families of ransom money demanded at 150 million pesos. The negotiator led the victims to Lagasan, in Parang, Sulu, where a watercraft powered by a two-engine Volvo awaited, and sped off to the direction of Sabah. They arrived Sandakan at about 7 in the morning of June 9.\nPointless violence and terrorism\nIn a statement, ARMM Governor Mujiv Hataman expressed his “deepest condemnation against this act of pointless violence and terrorism.”\n“This is not what Islam stands for, and we refuse to let this turn us against our fellow Filipinos – not at a time when Ramadan teaches us sympathy, compassion, and love,” he said.\n“Those who tread the path of violence and claim to do it in the name of Islam are, without question, merely men of sin who distort a faith that stands for peace. They are not our people,” Hataman added.\nHataman explained that their “response to these attacks against our faith can be found in Islam itself: as Muslims we are taught that to kill one man means to kill all of humanity, and to save one man means to save all of humanity. It is then imperative for us work to together as Muslims in making sure that the criminals behind these acts of violence are made accountable to our people in the courts of law, and to save those who might fall into the hands of these men who do nothing but evil.” (Frencie Carreon / MindaNews)}}
{{Lilly Mucarsel, a native of Ecuador, poses for a picture in her office Friday, May 25, 2018, in Tustin, Calif. Mucarsel, 62, of Southern California finds herself reverting to English when she attends a baseball game or goes to a restaurant with her husband to prove that yes, she also knows the language, and to avoid the nasty looks she unfortunately gets while conversing in her native tongue. Chris Carlson AP Photo}}
{{You can now subscribe to Apple Music annually for less through the Music app, but it's not obvious.\nApple very quietly updated its subscription offering to include an annual rate of only $99, which is about $20 off the yearly price if you're paying the monthly rate of $9.99. It's not easy to find; I heard about it from TechCrunch. If you're already a subscriber, you can change your plan under your subscription management section. If you're not already a subscriber, you're out of luck until you choose a monthly plan first.\nThere is currently no annual subscription offer for the Student Plan or the Family Plan (though an argument could be made that those are already a discounted price). Still, it would be nice if you could have the option to pay your Family Plan subscription yearly instead of monthly.\nYou no longer have to buy an Apple Music Gift Card for a one-year plan at $99. You can now upgrade right in the Music app on your iPhone or iPad. Here's how.\nHow to subscribe annually to an Individual Apple Music plan in iOS 10\nIf you are currently subscribed to Apple Music, you can switch to an Individual Plan, paid yearly, for $99. Remember, this is only viewable if you already have an Apple Music subscription.\nLaunch the Music app on your iPhone or iPad. Tap the For You tab. Tap your Profile in the upper right corner of the screen. Tap View Apple ID. Sign in with your Apple ID or Touch ID. Scroll down and tap Subscriptions. Tap Apple Music Membership. Tap Individual (1 Year). Enter your Apple ID or Touch ID. Tap Confirm to confirm that you want to switch to the annual plan.\nThe annual plan will be charged when your current subscription is over, which will be no more than one month.\nHow to subscribe to annually to an Individual Apple Music plan in iOS 11\nThe Music app in the developer beta of iOS 11 has been slightly redesigned (don't worry, it's not too different). As such, there are slightly different steps to follow to get to your subscription management section. These steps are only confirmed for iOS 11 developer beta 1.\nApple occasionally offers updates to iOS, watchOS, tvOS, and macOS as closed developer previews or public betas for iPhone, iPad, Apple TV and Mac (sadly, no public beta for the Apple Watch). While the betas contain new features, they also contain pre-release bugs that can prevent the normal use of your iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, Apple TV, or Mac, and are not intended for everyday use on a primary device. That's why we strongly recommend staying away from developer previews unless you need them for software development, and using the public betas with caution. If you depend on your devices, wait for the final release.\nLaunch the Music app on your iPhone or iPad. Tap the For You tab. Tap your Profile in the upper right corner of the screen. Scroll down and tap View Account. Tap View Apple ID. Sign in with your Apple ID or Touch ID. Tap Subscriptions. Tap Apple Music Membership. Tap Individual (1 Year). Enter your Apple ID or Touch ID. Tap Confirm to confirm that you want to switch to the annual plan.\nAny questions?\nDo you have any questions about upgrading to the annual individual plan for Apple Music? Put them in the comments and we'll help you out.}}
{{Getty Image\nFollowing a federal appeals court’s decision to rule against the Trump administration’s third attempt to institute a travel ban, a new report by the New York Times paints a rather alarming portrait of the president’s general opinions on immigration. This shouldn’t be a surprise, of course, as Trump infamously declared Mexican immigrants were bringing drugs, rape, and other questionable things into the United States when he first announced his candidacy. Considering what several aides who attended (or were briefed on) an Oval Office meeting in June told the Times, however, the president’s racism is far worse.\nReading from a document prepared by Stephen Miller, whose own problematic opinions on immigration are well-documented, Trump seethed at his advisors while complaining that the initial ban’s missteps were making him look bad:}}
{{A week after nine persons were injured in a brawl between two groups over a DJ playing music near a government school at Jagatpura village here, the Sohana police on Thursday registered case against eight persons.\nAnother case was lodged as the opposing party responded with counter charges.\nTwo persons were booked under Sections 323, 324 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC on the complaint of Manu Ram, who was from the family that had hired the DJ. Six others were booked under Sections 323, 341, 506 and 148 of the IPC on the statement of Arshad and Ram’s neighbour who had complained about the music.\nAssistant sub-inspector Sikandar Singh who was investigating the case said, “Manu Ram is being treated in hospital while the remaining eight injured persons were discharged. We have registered the case on the basis of medical reports of both the parties. The suspects will be arrested soon and (names of) some more suspects might be added in the FIR.”\nOn July 31 night, Manu Ram’s family had hired a DJ to celebrate a family member’s birthday and mark festivities on the eve of Eid.\nA heated argument followed when the family of Rashid (Arshad’s father) living in the neighbourhood objected to the loud music and asked that it be played at low volume.\nBoth parties attacked each other with sticks and swords.}}
{{TORONTO, July 9 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index turned negative in early Tuesday trade, led lower by a decline in Alimentation Couche-Tard after the retailer reported quarterly results and in energy shares after the price of oil fell. At mid-morning, the Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index was down 4.74 points, or 0.04 percent, at 12,204.13.}}
{{The Victoria Day long weekend is upon us, marking the unofficial start to the summer. Many Canadians choose to spend the weekend with a cold beer in hand. The Liquor Control Board of Ontario says sales typically increase 30 per cent on long weekends, with Friday marking the high point for sales. Hence the popular nickname in some regions -- “May two-four weekend” – after the nickname for a case of suds. But the fractious nature of the Canadian beer retailing industry means prices are generally all over the map, with the Maritimes bearing the highest beer burden. Below is an unscientific selection of how much a case of 24 Molson Canadians will run you from coast to coast, from the best deal to the biggest gouge.\nQuebec: $30.99\nQuebec’s relatively liberal beer retailing system helps it headline the list, with a case of beer coming in at $30.99 at the local IGA, working out to just shy of $1.30 a beer. The low prices in Quebec helped incite a Supreme Court beer battle, after a New Brunswick man was fined $292.50 for bringing beer bought in Quebec back to his home province.\nBritish Columbia: $32.99\nB.C. has a hybrid public-private system of beer retailing, landing somewhere between Quebec’s open market and Ontario’s beer & liquor monopolies. A case of Canadian through the provincially-controlled stores will run you $32.99, which further liberalized liquor laws earlier this year on a number of fronts, including allowing barbershops and book stores to apply for a liquor license.\nManitoba: $36.15\nHeading down to the local Winnipeg Liquor Mart, which is owned by a provincial Crown Corporation, a 24 of Canadian will set you back $1.51 a beer. The Manitoba Liberals pledged to privatize liquor retailing in the province if elected last year, but the idea fell flat when the Progressive Conservative party swept to power.\nAlberta: $39.99 (on sale, from $47.99)\nAlberta climbs to fourth spot on account of a May Long Weekend sale, but the province’s prices are highly variable in the absence of a provincial body. Aggressive discounting is both common due to competitive pressures and a welcome relief for Albertans looking to pick up a flat. The Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives noted in a 2016 report that a lack of scale drives up costs for private retailers and final prices in those systems are “greatly variable and generally higher than a public monopoly can achieve.”\nOntario: $41.95\nOntario’s beer duopoly leaves it solidly in the middle of the road, with a 2-4 running just shy of $42. The province’s Beer Store is owned by a cabal of foreign breweries, after a string of M&A activity in the beer space saw the nation’s largest brewers fall into foreign hands.\nNew Brunswick: $43.00\nNew Brunswick actually has it best among the Maritime provinces when it comes to the cost of beer. Canada has promised to review the flow of beer across provincial borders as part of its internal free trade agreement, but it remains exempt from the terms of the agreement in the interim.\nNova Scotia: $43.98\nOne province over, you’ll have to pony up an extra dollar a case. The provincial crown corporation controls the bulk of the province’s booze, with 103 retail stores stocking more than 5,000 products.\nSaskatchewan: $44.95\nSaskatchewan is in the process of sweeping reforms to its liquor retailing system, embarking on a major privatization overhaul. Beer in the province has traditionally been sold in either urban, government-run stores or rural licensees.\nPEI: $47.60\nCanada’s smallest province bears the second-highest costs, distributing its beer through a combination of provincially-run stores and a number of licensees.\nNewfoundland & Labrador: $48.80\nNewfoundland takes the inauspicious bottom slot, with the cost of a Canadian cresting two bucks a bottle.}}
{{(link.reuters.com/myb59t)\n----\nNOTE: Reuters has not verified this story and does not vouch for its accuracy. (Compiled by Manila Newsroom)}}
{{Sign in using you account with: {* loginWidget *}\nSign in using your whbq profile\nWelcome back. Please sign in\nWhy are we asking this?\nBy submitting your registration information, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .\nAlready have an account?\nWe have sent a confirmation email to {* data_emailAddress *}. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.\nThank you for registering!\nThank you for registering!\nWe look forward to seeing you on [website] frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.\nClick here to return to the page you were visiting.}}
{{Former Dance Moms star Mackenzie Ziegler and her mother Melissa Gisoni are currently facing a breach of contract lawsuit filed by a music producer, reports revealed.\nAccording to TMZ, Kismet Music sued the 13-year-old dance prodigy and her 49-year-old mother for allegedly violating their music deal in 2014. The independent music label claimed that when Mackenzie signed the contract, she agreed to “deliver technically and commercially satisfactory records.” In return, Kismet Music would seek a recording contract and distribution deal for the aspiring singer.\nApparently, part of the deal is for Ziegler to do recording sessions and participate in meetings regarding her music career. The producers revealed that initially, the mother and daughter duo didn’t seem to have any issues with the contract and were complying with it. Mackenzie and her mother also allegedly cashed checks released under the deal.\nHowever, in 2016, things took a different turn when Mackenzie allegedly started skipping recording sessions and meetings. The lawsuit also revealed that Kismet Music tried to get in touch with the Dance Moms alum at least 14 times but to no avail.\nZiegler is also being accused of “two-timing” the music label for allegedly working with another producer despite her exclusivity deal.\nThe lawsuit revealed that Kismet Music is seeking 15 percent of Mackenzie’s net profits under the deal.\nH????PPY A post shared by Mackenzie Ziegler (@kenzieziegler) on Jun 16, 2017 at 1:15pm PDT\nIt can be recalled that the younger Ziegler released her debut album Mack Z in 2014. The album reached No. 1 on iTunes pop charts and seventh spot on iTunes albums sales chart for all genres.\nRecently, Mackenzie released her brand new song “Monsters (aka Haters).” The former Dance Moms star also released a music video for her latest single. Mackenzie’s music video, which was uploaded last month, already gained over 7 million views on YouTube and still counting.\nZiegler also managed to establish her name on social media both as a dancer and singer. Mackenzie currently has 1.2 million subscribers on YouTube and a whopping 7.6 million followers on Instagram.\nNew tour dates have been added! Hope to see you there! (On sale this Saturday!) #dayandnighttour @johnnyorlando ???? ???? A post shared by Mackenzie Ziegler (@kenzieziegler) on May 23, 2017 at 9:05am PDT\nCurrently, Mackenzie is busy working on her music career and is heading out on a tour with Johnny Orlando. The young singer already expressed her excitement on her upcoming tour and promised fans with fun and energetic shows. Tickets are now available in Mackenzie Ziegler’s official website.\n“Our shows have a lot of energy and fun. We try to just have a good time with the audience!”\nMake sure to check back for more news and updates on Mackenzie Ziegler.\n[Featured Image by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP Images]}}
{{Tim Kaine The Truth About Trump is He Wants to Block All Immigration\nTim Kaine Says President Trump Has it Out for ALL Immigrants\nEXCLUSIVE\nTim Kaine says President Trump is full of it and, despite what he says ... his true mission is to stop all immigration in the U.S. -- not just people coming here illegally.\nWe got the Virginia Senator at Capitol Hill in D.C. Wednesday and, after completely dismissing what Ann Coulter claims about kids in detention camps ... he put the Prez on blast for rejecting a bipartisan deal in February that would have helped Dreamers and provided $25 BILLION in border security.\nKaine says the real deal with Trump is ... he's obsessed with making life miserable for all immigrants -- legal and illegal -- and punishing kids, and his demand for more border security is just a guise.\nFor a guy who Trump recently referred to as "a total stiff" ... Kaine just went in hard on him. But, for what it's worth, Trump says he's about to sign an executive order to keep families at the border together.}}
{{Eartha Kitt was the first singer of Springer’s Santa Baby (Picture: Getty Images)\nEveryone knows that the sexiest Christmas song of all time is Santa Baby – but does everyone know that the song was written by Phil Springer, who isn’t a cheerleader for his biggest hit?\nYes, Springer, who is now 91, just can’t understand why we’re all still so obsessed with his super sultry song.\n‘I ask myself, “How come?” I’ve written so many songs that, to me, musically are much better than Santa Baby, and they’re not popular.\n‘The answer has to be that Santa Baby’ has a magic that goes beyond a composer’s plans.’\nIf you want to understand just how sexy this crimbo song is, check out this neat fact: Back when Eartha Kitt recorded the first ever version of it – with the lyrics ‘Santa baby, just slip a sable under the tree for me / Been an awful good girl / Santa baby, so hurry down the chimney tonight’ – it was actually banned in parts of South America.\nSpringer told the LA Times that he wasn’t a massive fan of the song from the start. The songwriter originally planned to turn down the assignment of writing the tune because he didn’t think it was possible to write a sexy Christmas song that would be liked by listeners.\nHe said to publishers: ‘”[Eartha Kitt] is the is the sexiest woman in the world. You don’t write Christmas songs that are sexy. How are we going to do that?”\nBut the response his objections were firm: ‘”Stick to the music,” they said. “Let us worry about about whether this song is going to be sacrilegious or not.”‘\nAnd thus became one of the greatest Christmas tunes of all time – one that many babies conceived in December have to be thankful for.\nWhen he finished writing the song with collaborator Joan Javits, he sent the music to the publishers with a note that read: ‘Gentlemen, this is not really the kind of music that I like to write. I hope it’s OK. It’s the best I could do.’\nSince its release in 1953, such is the song’s popularity that it’s been covered by the likes of Madonna, Taylor Swift, Lady Gaga, Kylie Minogue and even King of Christmas, Michael Bublé.\nGot a story? If you've got a story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk Entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page - we'd love to hear from you.\nMORE: Karen Clifton shares image with Strictly cast – but husband Kevin is missing as he continues to hang out with Louise Redknapp\nMORE: Peter Capaldi calls Steven Moffat ‘one of Doctor Who’s greatest writers’ ahead of his final episode}}
{{President Donald Trump , under growing pressure to act unilaterally to address the immigration crisis, said Wednesday that he would be "signing something" soon that would keep immigrant families together."I'll be signing something in a little while that's going to do that," Trump told pool reporters regarding the crisis over children being separated from parents who cross illegally into the U.S.He later said he would sign an executive order. On Friday he said, "You can't do it through an executive order."The president's move comes amid growing outrage over the practice and on the eve of House votes Thursday to address the immigration problem."I'll be doing something that's somewhat preemptive and ultimately will be matched by legislation I'm sure," Trump said.The president said he's facing a dilemma between being weak and strong on the issue of immigration, and that it's hard to have both heart and be strong."The dilemma is if you're weak... if you're really pathetically weak, the country is going to be overwhelmed with people... if you're strong, then you don't have any heart. Perhaps I'd like to be strong," Trump said, according to the pool report.The president said images of children in detention "affect everyone" but said images from the Obama administration were worse."You have double standards," Trump said. "This has been going on for 50 years""We want to be strong at the border but we also want to be compassionate," Trump said.First lady Melania Trump has been pushing behind the scenes for days to get her husband to end the child separation policy, according to a White House official.The official said Mrs. Trump has been speaking with her husband often about this in recent days and has been encouraging him to do all he can to end the separations however he could.Last night, Trump told lawmakers his daughter Ivanka had shown him images of children in detention facilities and urged him to end the separation practice.While it's not clear exactly what the president will sign, it will not end the "zero tolerance" policy of prosecuting everyone who tries to cross the border illegally, a source involved in the drafting told ABC Chief White House Correspondent Jonathan Karl.The directive prepared for the president would instruct the Justice Department to allow children to be detained along with their family members while they await a hearing - even if that process takes more than 20 days.Right now, under what's called the Flores consent decree, children can be detained for only 20 days. The president will instruct DOJ to challenge that decree and to not abide by it while it is being challenged, the source said.This move will almost certainly be challenged in court.}}
{{WASHINGTON (AP) – The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):\n11:53 a.m.\n- Advertisement -\nTrump says he’ll be “signing something” on immigration, wants to keep migrant families together.\n11:45 a.m.\nBritish Prime Minister Theresa May says the United States is wrong to separate migrant children from their parents, but has rejected calls to cancel President Donald Trump’s visit to Britain next month.\nMay said Wednesday that images of children in cages were “deeply disturbing. This is wrong. This is not something that we agree with.”\nOpposition lawmakers rebuked May for not criticizing the Trump administration in stronger terms.\nTrump is due to meet May and Queen Elizabeth II during a visit to Britain on July 13.\nMay said Britain and the United States had a “special, long and enduring relationship,” and she had “a range of issues” to discuss with Trump.\nShe said the close U.K.-U.S. bond meant “when we disagree with what they are doing, we say so.”\n___\n11:15 a.m.\nHomeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen is drafting an executive action for President Donald Trump that would direct DHS to keep families apprehended at the border together during detention.\nThat’s according to two people familiar with her thinking who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the effort before its official announcement.\nIt’s unclear whether the president is supportive of the measure.\nBut Nielsen is on her way to the White House to discuss the issue with the president’s team, according to one of the people.\nThe person says the secretary believes there is little certainty that Congress will act to fix the separation issue and is trying to find a solution. The order would ask the Department of Defense to help house the detained families.\n(Copyright 2018 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.)}}
{{LAC-MEGANTIC, Quebec (Reuters) - Shipments of crude oil along the rail route disrupted by the Quebec train derailment could be out of service for “a while”, an official with Canada’s Transportation Safety Board said on Tuesday.\nMontreal, Maine & Atlantic Railway’s line that carries oil from Montreal through Maine destined for Irving Oil’s St. John, New Brunswick refinery has been shut since a crude train derailed in Lac-Megantic early Saturday.\nAbout 50 people are either confirmed dead, or are still missing, likely turning the accident into North America’s worst rail disaster since 1989.\nTransportation Safety Board lead investigator Don Ross said in a press conference the line would be out of service for “a while, until this gets cleared up.”\n“Those services from Montreal through this area, Quebec, to the neighboring states is affected until we get it up and running,” he told reporters.\nThe MMA train had been carrying crude from North Dakota to the 300,000 barrel per day (bpd) Irving Oil refinery. Officials from Maine’s Department of Transportation said on Monday they had no plans to halt shipments of oil by rail through the state despite the Lac-Megantic disaster.\nThe MMA line carried more than 15,600 barrels per day (bpd) of crude through Maine in March, according to state data. A separate line owned by Pan Am Railways, took just over 12,400 bpd during that month.\nCrude oil continues to flow through Maine to New Brunswick from points south along the railroad tracks owned by Pan Am Railways, which last year railed about 6,300 bpd of crude through the state.\nPan Am’s line enters southwestern Maine in Berwick then runs northeastward through Portland and Waterville to Mattawamkeag, where deliveries are handed off to Maine, Montreal and Atlantic’s line before crossing into New Brunswick, Canada.\n“It’s a tragedy, and we’ve reached out to MMA and offered to do whatever we can to help them,” Pan Am vice president Cynthia Scarano told Reuters.\n“But there’s been no interruption in our service,” she said.}}
{{Please enable Javascript to watch this video\nWINSTON-SALEM, N.C. — More than 20,000 people take part in the Hispanic League's Fiesta every year.\nThe street festival is the league's largest fundraiser for student scholarships.\nHere to tell us all about it is Mari Jo Turner, the executive director of the Hispanic League, as well as Jonorys Laporte, a former Hispanic League scholarship recipient.\nJoin the fun as the Hispanic League presents Fiesta from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Saturday, Sept. 14 in front of the Milton Rhodes Center for the Arts in Winston-Salem.\nEnjoy authentic Latin foods, local arts and crafts and a dance Competition. Plus, take in the live Latin sounds of Grammy winner Marlow with the Winston Salem State University Jazz Ensemble, Che Apalache from Argentina and Flor De Toloache, the all-female mariachi band from New York City.}}
{{Syrian dancer and choreographer Ahmad Joudeh performs in front of the European Parliament for the World Refugee day in Brussels, Belgium, 20 June 2018. EPA-EFE/STEPHANIE LECOCQ\nSyrian dancer and choreographer Ahmad Joudeh performs in front of the European Parliament for the World Refugee day in Brussels, Belgium, 20 June 2018. EPA-EFE/STEPHANIE LECOCQ\nSyrian dancer and choreographer Ahmad Joudeh performs in front of the European Parliament for the World Refugee day in Brussels, Belgium, 20 June 2018. EPA-EFE/STEPHANIE LECOCQ\nSyrian dancer and choreographer Ahmad Joudeh performs in front of the European Parliament for the World Refugee day in Brussels, Belgium, 20 June 2018. EPA-EFE/STEPHANIE LECOCQ\nA Syrian dancer who has escaped life-endangering situations during his country's civil war gave a performance outside the European Parliament on Wednesday to mark World Refugee Day, an epa-efe photojournalist reported.\nIn front of a sizable crowd of spectators and some 100 refugees who came from all over Europe for the occasion, Ahmad Joudeh busted out his ballet moves on the Esplanade in front of the European Parliament.}}
{{The Canadian Senate has passed a bill to permit the possession and use of marijuana for recreational purposes in a landmark decision.\nThe bill now must obtain royal approval before becoming law.\nThe bill would permit the possession of 30 grams of dried cannabis, however age restrictions are expected to follow those relative to alcohol.\nPer residence, Canadians will be allowed to own four cannabis plants per residence, although Quebec and Manitoba will have a ban on home cultivation.\nRules on smoking marijuana in public vary between provinces and territories.\nOnce the bill becomes law, the government will determine when it will come into effect.\nCTV reports:\nOTTAWA — The Senate has voted to pass Bill C-45, the government’s legislation to legalize cannabis, meaning that recreational marijuana will soon be legal across Canada.\nSome parliamentarians are calling it an “historic” moment in this country, while others are warning of the work left to be done: raising public awareness about the implications of this incoming major social policy change.\nAfter more than a year of intensive study in both the House and Senate, the bill cleared the final legislative hurdle Tuesday evening, passing by a vote of 52 to 29 with two abstentions from the Independent Senators from Quebec: Sen. Marie-Françoise Mégie and Sen. Rosa Galvez.\nThe vote was on a motion from Sen. Peter Harder, the Government Representative in the Senate, to accept the government’s position on the Senate’s amendments and pass the bill as is. It was all that was left in a short round of legislative ping-pong spurred by the upper chamber amending the government legislation.\nThe House of Commons will be notified of the Senate’s decision. After that, all that is left will be Royal Assent to officially pass the bill and for the government to determine when the new law will come into force.\nLeader of the Independent Senators Group Sen. Yuen Pau Woo told reporters after the vote that the mammoth study of Bill C-45 was “a bit of a stress test” for the increasingly Independent Senate.\nHe said now, the work will have to begin on implementing the legislation, and making sure Canadians understand what this new regime means.\n“We are now moving where in the legalized industry we have the chance to push out the illicit elements, we have the chance to do research on cannabis, we have the chance to properly educate our young people on the harms of cannabis use, and all of this should be the focus of the whole country now,” Sen. Woo said.\nThe legislation — an electoral promise of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and the Liberal Party –allows adults in Canada to legally possess and use small amounts of recreational cannabis. It sets out parameters around the production, possession, safety standards, distribution, and sale of the drug. It also creates new Criminal Code offences for selling marijuana to minors. The proposed federal law spells out that it will be illegal for anyone younger than 18 to buy pot, but allows for provinces and territories to set a higher minimum age.\nIn a tweet, Justice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould, who was the bill’s sponsor, and first introduced the legislation in April 2017, said it was “an historic milestone for progressive policy in Canada.”\nThe federal government is expected to formally respond to the bill’s passage Wednesday morning in the House of Commons foyer.\nLast week, the government announced it would be accepting most but not all of the Senate’s more than 40 proposed amendments to Bill C-45. Among the 13 amendments that the federal Liberals rejected were the proposal to allow the provinces and territories to ban home-grown marijuana, and a proposed change to prohibit pot producers from distributing branded merchandise.\nEarlier in the evening, an attempt by Conservative Sen. Claude Carignan to insist on an amendment to let provinces ban marijuana home cultivation, failed.\nReacting to his effort to push back on the government’s rejection of the change, Carignan said his attempt was to give the provinces a right he believes they should have, in an effort to circumvent what is now likely: the matter winding up in court.\nSenators spent much of Tuesday offering their final thoughts on the legislation, with some expressing disappointment and frustration over MPs not accepting the Senate’s changes, and raising remaining concerns with the legislation as it stands.\nOthers argued that the upper chamber had done its due diligence and that it was time to concede to the will of the elected House of Commons, and pass the legislation.\nIn calling the vote, Senate Speaker George Furey had a slip of the tongue and called “all those in flavour” instead of “all those in favour,” sending snickers through the chamber. “It’s getting late,” Sen. Furey said.\nSpeaking with reporters following the vote, Sen. Harder said he was finally pausing after the manoeuvrings and the procedural wrangling to acknowledge that after a very lengthy debate, Canada is on the cusp of legalization after nearly a century of prohibition.\n“It is a step in the right direction and what we now need to do is to insure as we move forward in implementation, that everybody plays their role, that everybody understands the obligations that they have and uses the opportunity of the next number of weeks to inform themselves of what a legal cannabis market means for them, their family, their communities, and the opportunities and risks that it poses,” said Sen. Harder.\nSo is marijuana legal? No.\nThe bill still needs to receive Royal Assent, which is expected as soon as tomorrow. That is the final step — essentially the Crown approving the bill. It’s overseen by Canada’s representative, the Governor General.\nOnce it passes, the government is expected to declare the date that legalization will come into force and be applicable.\nOn CTV’s Question Period, parliamentary secretary and the federal government’s point-person on pot, Bill Blair said he expects the date to be some time this September.\nThat window of time between when the bill passes and when it becomes federal law is to allow for the provinces, territories, municipalities, police forces, and other stakeholders to make sure their piece of the pot pie is operating in accordance with the new rules.\nBlair said the date they decide on will be informed by discussions with their provincial and territorial counterparts, which have been given the ability to set regulations in their jurisdictions as to how a legalized marijuana regime will operate.\nWhat you need to know:\nMany of the decisions around how legalized marijuana is sold and used will be up to the provinces and territories. Here is what you need to know about what will be allowed:\nThe federally mandated public possession limit of 30 grams of dried cannabis has been maintained across the country, with most jurisdictions opting to keep their legal marijuana-smoking ages in line with those for drinking alcohol.\nBill C-45 allows individuals to grow up to four marijuana plants per residence, though some provinces, like Manitoba and Quebec, plan to ban home cultivation.\nProvincial and territorial plans vary widely on whether you’ll be able to smoke in public.\nProvinces and territories also differ on whether pot shops will be publicly or privately owned. For those opting for publicly owned stores, these will be operated by provincial Crown corporations that sell liquor. In some cases, provinces have even created subsidiaries of these companies with names. Unless otherwise noted, these will be standalone stores wholly separate from those that sell alcohol.\nWhile dried cannabis and cannabis oil — both of which will be sold in 2018 — can be used to make edible products at home, the federal government has said that packaged edible products won’t be commercially available.\nOutcome of drug-impaired driving bill pending\nBill C-45 was introduced alongside Bill C-46 which specifically deals with impaired driving. The government has hoped throughout the process that the two bills would pass in close succession.\nThis legislation proposes changes to the impaired driving laws to give police new powers to conduct roadside intoxication tests, including oral fluid drug tests, and would make it illegal to drive within two hours of being over the legal limit.\nHowever, the Senate amended Bill C-46 to remove the provision that allowed police to conduct random roadside alcohol tests. The Senate also sought to legally downgrade impaired driving offences so that they are not classified as “serious criminality” in order to protect foreign nationals and permanent residents from losing their statuses or becoming inadmissible to Canada after such a conviction.\nOn Monday, the government gave notice of its position on the Senate changes, stating that it “respectfully disagrees” with these two changes. However, in the motion the government indicates it is willing to accept a handful of other Senate amendments to the legislation.\nThe House has yet to send this message back to the Senate but once that occurs, Bill C-46 is in for a similar final debate and vote, as seen with Bill C-45, where senators will have to decide whether they insist, or accept and pass the bill.\nThe House of Commons is scheduled to adjourn for the summer on Friday, June 22, but the Senate is set to sit for a week longer. There is always the potential of an early adjournment, or the opportunity to sit longer in exceptional circumstances.}}
{{Charli XCX released her first album in five years, Charli, and is relieved it’s out.\nXCX shared a photo from the album’s photoshoot to her Instagram where she appears completely naked with a silver graphic going across her body and on her face. The shot is very similar to the album cover, but Charli isn’t looking directly into the camera lens on the artwork.\nIn her caption, she mentioned that she is very happy the album has finally been released and that everyone can now hear it. She revealed the album consists of topics about love, relationships, and partying, but also her mental health and insecurities. She stated that it’s her most personal release to date and thanked her fans for supporting her throughout the years.\nWithin an hour, the post racked up over 73,000 likes, proving to have resonated with her 3.4 million Instagram followers.\n“Sis, you really went tf off w this album. We do not deserve!!!!” one user wrote.\n“It’s wonderful. I don’t know what a lot of us would have done without you these past few years. Grateful to have you doing what you do!!!” another mentioned.\n“Best album of the year FIGHT ME,” a third shared.\n“Album of the year already,” a fourth fan insisted.\n“I don’t know if I’ll listen to anything else again,” a fifth follower commented.\nReleased via Atlantic Records, the album contains 15 tracks and 14 collaborations.\nThe full tracklist is as follows:\n“Next Level” “Gone” featuring Christine and the Queens “Cross You Out” featuring Sky Ferreira “1999” featuring Troye Sivan “Click” featuring Kim Petras and Tommy Cash “Warm” featuring Haim “Thoughts” “Blame It On Your Love” featuring Lizzo “White Mercedes” “Silver Cross” “I Don’t Wanna Know” “Official” “Shake It” featuring Big Freedia, CupcakKe, Brooke Candy, and Pabllo Vittar “February 2017” featuring Clairo and Yaeji “2099” featuring Troye Sivan\nLoading...\nSo far, the album has received a lot of praise from critics, achieving an average score of 82 out of 100 based on seven reviews, per Metacritic.\nTo promote the album, she will embark on her own tour, which is set to visit two continents. It will start on September 20 in Atlanta, Georgia, and will go across North America. The second leg will visit Europe in October. Previously, The Inquisitr reported the “After The Afterparty” hitmaker telling her fans to go see her “a**” on tour while flashing her booty on stage.\nOn Spotify, she currently has over 15 million monthly listeners. Her most popular song on the app at the moment is “Blame It On Your Love” featuring American songstress Lizzo.\nTo stay up to date with Charli XCX, follow her Instagram account.}}
{{Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.}}
{{Hungary’s parliament on Wednesday approved a package of bills that criminalizes some help given to illegal immigrants, defying the EU and human rights groups. Under the new law, called ‘Stop Soros,’ individuals or groups who help migrants not entitled to protection to submit requests for asylum or who help illegal migrants gain status to stay in Hungary will be liable to prison terms, Reuters said. The package of bills makes the organization of illegal immigration a criminal offence, according to Interior Minister Sandor Pinter. “We want to use the bills to stop Hungary from becoming a country of immigrants,” he said. Parliament also passed on Wednesday a constitutional amendment to state that an “alien population” cannot be settled in Hungary, seen as a swipe at Brussels over its quota plan.}}
{{Trump administration officials have been sending babies and other young children forcibly separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border to at least three "tender age" shelters in South Texas, The Associated Press has learned.\nLawyers and medical providers who have visited the Rio Grande Valley shelters described play rooms of crying preschool-age children in crisis. The government also plans to open a fourth shelter to house hundreds of young migrant children in Houston, where city leaders denounced the move Tuesday.\nSince the White House announced its zero tolerance policy in early May, more than 2,300 children have been taken from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border, resulting in a new influx of young children requiring government care. The government has faced withering critiques over images of some of the children in cages inside U.S. Border Patrol processing stations.\nDecades after the nation's child welfare system ended the use of orphanages over concerns about the lasting trauma to children, the administration is standing up new institutions to hold Central American toddlers that the government separated from their parents.\n"The thought that they are going to be putting such little kids in an institutional setting? I mean it is hard for me to even wrap my mind around it," said Kay Bellor, vice president for programs at Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, which provides foster care and other child welfare services to migrant children. "Toddlers are being detained."\nBellor said shelters follow strict procedures surrounding who can gain access to the children in order to protect their safety, but that means information about their welfare can be limited.\nBy law, child migrants traveling alone must be sent to facilities run by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services within three days of being detained. The agency then is responsible for placing the children in shelters or foster homes until they are united with a relative or sponsor in the community as they await immigration court hearings.\nBut U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions' announcement last month that the government would criminally prosecute everyone who crosses the U.S.-Mexico border illegally has led to the breakup of migrant families and sent a new group of hundreds of young children into the government's care.\nThe United Nations, some Democratic and Republican lawmakers and religious groups have sharply criticized the policy, calling it inhumane.\nNot so, said Steven Wagner, an official with the Department of Health and Human Services.\n"We have specialized facilities that are devoted to providing care to children with special needs and tender age children as we define as under 13 would fall into that category," he said. "They're not government facilities per se, and they have very well-trained clinicians, and those facilities meet state licensing standards for child welfare agencies, and they're staffed by people who know how to deal with the needs — particularly of the younger children."\nUntil now, however, it's been unknown where they are.\n"In general we do not identify the locations of permanent unaccompanied alien children program facilities," said agency spokesman Kenneth Wolfe.\nThe three centers — in Combes, Raymondville and Brownsville — have been rapidly repurposed to serve needs of children including some under 5. A fourth, planned for Houston, would house up to 240 children in a warehouse previously used for people displaced by Hurricane Harvey, Mayor Sylvester Turner said.\nTurner said he met with officials from Austin-based Southwest Key Programs, the contractor that operates some of the child shelters, to ask them to reconsider their plans. A spokeswoman for Southwest Key didn't immediately reply to an email seeking comment.\n"And so there comes a point in time we draw a line and for me, the line is with these children," said Turner during a news conference Tuesday.\nOn a practical level, the zero tolerance policy has overwhelmed the federal agency charged with caring for the new influx of children who tend to be much younger than teens who typically have been traveling to the U.S. alone. Indeed some recent detainees are infants, taken from their mothers.\nDoctors and lawyers who have visited the shelters said the facilities were fine, clean and safe, but the kids — who have no idea where their parents are — were hysterical, crying and acting out.\n"The shelters aren't the problem, it's taking kids from their parents that's the problem," said South Texas pediatrician Marsha Griffin who has visited many.\nAlicia Lieberman, who runs the Early Trauma Treatment Network at University of California, San Francisco, said decades of study show early separations can cause permanent emotional damage.\n"Children are biologically programmed to grow best in the care of a parent figure. When that bond is broken through long and unexpected separations with no set timeline for reunion, children respond at the deepest physiological and emotional levels," she said. "Their fear triggers a flood of stress hormones that disrupt neural circuits in the brain, create high levels of anxiety, make them more susceptible to physical and emotional illness, and damage their capacity to manage their emotions, trust people, and focus their attention on age-appropriate activities."\nDays after Sessions announced the zero-tolerance policy, the government issued a call for proposals from shelter and foster care providers to provide services for the new influx of children taken from their families after journeying from Honduras, El Salvador, Guatemala and Mexico.\nAs children are separated from their families, law enforcement agents reclassify them from members of family units to "unaccompanied alien children." Federal officials said Tuesday that since May, they have separated 2,342 children from their families, rendering them unaccompanied minors in the government's care.\nWhile Mexico is still the most common country of origin for families arrested at the border, in the last eight months Honduras has become the fastest-growing category as compared to fiscal year 2017.\nDuring a press briefing Tuesday, reporters repeatedly asked for an age breakdown of the children who have been taken. Officials from both law enforcement and Health and Human Services said they didn't know how many children were under 5, under 2, or even so little they're non-verbal.\n"The facilities that they have for the most part are not licensed for tender age children," said Michelle Brane, director of migrant rights at the Women's Refugee Commission, who met with a 4-year-old girl in diapers in a McAllen warehouse where Border Patrol temporarily holds migrant families. "There is no model for how you house tons of little children in cots institutionally in our country. We don't do orphanages, our child welfare has recognized that is an inappropriate setting for little children."\nSo now, the government has to try to hire more caregivers.\nThe recent call for proposals by the federal government's Office of Refugee Resettlement said it was seeking applicants who can provide services for a diverse population "of all ages and genders, as well as pregnant and parenting teens."\nEven the policy surrounding what age to take away a baby is inconsistent. Customs and Border Protection field chiefs over all nine southwest border districts can use their discretion over how young is too young, officials said. And while Health and Human Services defines "tender age" typically as 12 and under, Customs and Border Protection has at times defined it as 5 and under.\nFor 30 years, Los Fresnos, Texas-based International Education Services ran emergency shelters and foster care programs for younger children and pregnant teens who arrived in the U.S. as unaccompanied minors. At least one resident sued for the right to have an abortion in a high-profile case last March.\nFor reasons the agency did not explain, three months ago the government's refugee resettlement office said it was ending their funding to the program and transferred all children to other facilities. This came weeks before the administration began its "zero tolerance" policy, prompting a surge in "tender age" migrant children needing shelter.\nIn recent days, members of Congress have been visiting the shelters and processing centers, or watching news report about them, bearing witness to the growing chaos. In a letter sent to Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Tuesday, a dozen Republican senators said separating families isn't consistent with American values and ordinary human decency.\nOn Tuesday, a Guatemalan mother who hasn't seen her 7-year-old son since he was taken from her a month ago sued the Trump administration. Beata Mariana de Jesus Mejia-Mejia was released from custody while her asylum case is pending and thinks her son, Darwin, might be in a shelter in Arizona.\n"I only got to talk to him once and he sounded so sad. My son never used to sound like that, he was such a dynamic boy," Mejia-Mejia said as she wept. "I call and call and no one will tell me where he is."\nCopyright 2018 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.}}
{{Lilly Mucarsel, a native of Ecuador, poses for a picture in her office Friday, May 25, 2018, in Tustin, Calif. Mucarsel, 62, of Southern California finds herself reverting to English when she attends a baseball game or goes to a restaurant with her husband to prove that yes, she also knows the language, and to avoid the nasty looks she unfortunately gets while conversing in her native tongue. Chris Carlson AP Photo}}
{{Review: Belle & Sebastian make balmy songs for upcoming film\nBelle & Sebastian, "Days of the Bangold Summer" (Matador)\nAsk some people if they've seen a certain film and they answer "No, but I read the book." For their part, Belle & Sebastian offer those asked if they've seen "Days of the Bangold Summer" the chance to say, "Not yet, but I've already heard the soundtrack."\nThe Scottish band's latest provides the songs to Simon Bird's directorial debut — about a summer shared by divorced librarian Sue Bangold and her teenage son Daniel — based on the 2012 graphic novel by Joff Winterhart and not scheduled for release until next year.\nNo matter, because whether working with the past, present or future, Belle & Sebastian know how to adapt.\nThe long-ago on "Days of the Bangold Summer" is invoked almost at the start, with a newly recorded version of "I Know Where the Summer Goes," originally on a 1998 EP, whose lyrics about the summer doldrums seem custom-made. Also making a return appearance, in a slightly more polished version than in 1996, is "Get Me Away from Here I'm Dying," which, what a coincidence, fits seamlessly with the rest new songs.\nTurning to more conventional soundtrack norms, there are four instrumentals, from melancholic opener "Sister Buddha (Intro)" to closer "We Were Never Glorious," which incorporates dialogue from the film.\nHighlights among the new songs include the gently thump of "Sister Buddha" and "Did the Day Go Just Like You Wanted?" whose second line is "Or did you hold on with your fingernails?" and which offers keen insight into realistic parent-child dynamics.\nBandleader Stuart Murdoch says most of the ideas came to him quickly after reading the book and Bird also had a voice in the song selection, so the paring of sound and vision should be a good match.\nOnce you've heard the music, you can wait for the film — or read the book.}}
{{This 15-year-old Afghan lives in a tent by the Canal Saint-Martin\nSpending Christmas by the canal in the trendy 10th arrondissement of Paris might sound romantic, but there is little romance for migrants like Omar, Jahan or teenager Khater who live in damp tents by the water’s edge.\n“Teachers in school taught us about France and what a wonderful place it was,” said Khater, who said he was 15 years old, as he stood by the dozens of tents strung along the banks of the Canal Saint-Martin that now serve as home for hundreds of migrants.\n“I didn’t think it would be like this,” he said, surveying the squalid scene along the canal, whose banks in summer host hundreds of trendy youngsters drinking beer or wine late into the night.\nKhater, like the other migrants mostly from Afghanistan that The Local spoke to, said he had been given an appointment in a government office to apply for asylum in several weeks’ time.\nMigrants' tents on the banks of the Canal Saint-Martin\nThat means he will be on the streets until at least the date of the appointment, and possibly even after it.\nThey will spend Christmas Day like they spend most other days, hoping it won’t rain, trying to keep warm and dry, and waiting for local charities to provide a hot meal.\nThey care little for Christmas, as most of the migrants there are Muslims.\nBut the sight of hundreds of migrants living rough along the canal, or further north at Porte de la Chapelle where a migrant processing centre is based, will do little to boost Christmas cheer in the French capital.\nThe numbers living on the streets in Paris has started to grow again.\nREAD ALSO:\nThe tents are scattered along the canal from near Jaurès metro station\nWhen the mini tent cities start to grow big, police move in to demolish them, with city officials following close behind to offer temporary accommodation.\nBut many migrants quickly return to the streets, and along with new arrivals the shantytowns build up again.\nThe peak was in autumn 2016, when several thousand migrants from war-torn or poverty stricken countries lived on the streets of Paris.\nThat surge prompted city authorities to open a 400-bed centre at Porte de la Chapelle, where single men can get temporary refuge for up to 10 days, with families, women and unaccompanied minors being redirected to other government-sponsored housing.\nBut the system still leaves hundreds and at times thousands on the streets.\nPolice are under orders to stop tent cities forming, and are accused by migrants and charity workers of confiscating or destroying tents and sleeping bags.\nCritics ask why France appears to be failing refugees that end up here when Germany has been able to handle more than a million migrants since 2015, with few if any of them having to live in the squalor seen on Paris streets or at the notorious Calais “Jungle” that was finally shut down just over a year ago.\nQueue at a government office near the canal where migrants get initial asylum interviews. All photos by Rory Mulholland.\nLast year, 85,700 applied for asylum in France.\nIn June, the newly-elected French President Emmanuel Macron said: "We have to welcome refugees, it's our duty and our honour."\nBut since then his opponents have repeatedly highlighted what they say is the glaring discrepancy between what Macron has said and what he is doing on the issue.\nThis week, his government’s plans to expel more failed asylum seekers, and draw up a tough new bill on immigration, prompted fury among rights groups.\nBack on the Canal Saint-Martin, such matters are of no immediate concern for Jahan and the fellow Afghan he shares his two-man tent with. Their priority is to keep dry over the Christmas holiday period, which is forecast to be mild but rainy.\n“Look,” the 23-year-old said, as the pair draped a survival blanket over their tent as an extra layer to keep the rain out and the heat in, “everything is soaking - my shoes, my jeans, my jacket.”\nby Rory Mulholland}}
{{VANCOUVER—Royal Bank of Canada customers who wish to wire payments to Taiwan will find it listed as a “province of China” on its website. The bank’s designation is coming to light after a similar move made by Air Canada to change the name of Taiwanese cities as part of China on its website.\nRoyal Bank designates Taiwan as part of China if customers want to wire money to the island nation. ( Nathan Denette / The Canadian Press )\nThat came after a notice was issued by the Chinese Civil Aviation Administration on April 25 to 36 air carriers that “demanded” they change the reference of Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macao to “fall in line with the Communist Party’s standards,” according to the White House. The decision caused an uproar of protests and backlash within the Taiwanese-Canadian community, and led to a social media boycott campaign. RBC, which also operates a centre in Beijing and Hong Kong, did not answer questions about when the designation began, whether the Chinese government was involved, nor why Taiwan is listed as a province of China.\nArticle Continued Below\nBut RBC said it “has been leveraging the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) for country descriptions. As part of our commitment to responding to the needs of our clients we will be making updates to our system to change how Taiwan is listed.” The bank did not respond to a follow-up question about what the “updates” will be. Kevin Ang, a Taiwanese-Canadian who launched an Air Canada boycott campaign that resulted in hundreds of protest messages on the airline’s Facebook page, said RBC’s move to list Taiwan as a province of China is an “outrage” and the company should stand by its own values. “We should not bow down to other parties just because we can have better business access,” Ang said. “That’s just completely wrong.” He’s urging the Canadian government to do its part to “protect the independence of Canadian businesses from the unjust interference of third parties.”\nSince the backlash, Air Canada has since reclassified Taiwanese cities such as Taipei as “Taipei, Taiwan, CN.” Ang said the change is “unsatisfactory,” citing that it still positions Taiwan as part of China. Global Affairs Canada said in a statement that “Air Canada and RBC are private companies and are responsible for the contents of their websites.” It added that “Canada’s long-standing position on this issue has not changed.”\nArticle Continued Below\nCharles Chang, president of the Taiwan Chamber of Commerce in B.C., knew about RBC’s name change a few days ago and said he believes it was done under the pressure of the Chinese government. “Otherwise, they have no reason to make a change.” Chang believes most companies will stand by Canadian values and resist pressure to change their policies. “I have no problem with the ‘one China’ policy, but we shouldn’t put Taiwan as China. Taiwan is not China.” The Chinese consulate in Vancouver did not respond to interview requests. Jenny Peng is a Vancouver-based reporter covering business. Follow her on Twitter: @JennyPengNow\nRead more about:}}
{{This August Bank Holiday (August 25-29) Southwell will again be alive with the sound of classical music when nearly 100 of the very best young professional performers from across Britain and Europe come to town for the third Southwell Music Festival.\nThe 2016 Southwell Music Festival – to be held throughout the Bank Holiday weekend – will include 29 musical events, of which nearly half are free.\nTickets are still available for some performances and can be obtained online viawww.southwellmusicfestival.com/onlinebooking , or by calling 0115 989 5555.\nHave you got something to share on the story? Were you there? What do you think? - Send your pictures, videos or story and we'll publish the best × Continue the story Town is alive with the sound of music Loading ... Add up to 3 photos or 1 videos to the story There's been a problem uploading your files. Please try again. By uploading your file you agree to our Terms and Conditions × Continue the story Sign in to contribute sign in shape the news in your area...}}
{{Speaker Paul Ryan says the House will vote Thursday on GOP immigration bills, but he offered no back-up plan to bring an end to family separations at the border if the measure fails to pass.\n"Right now we're focused on getting this bill passed," Ryan told reporters.\nHe says the compromise bill negotiated between Republican conservatives and moderates "is Plan B."\nThe speaker said he does not support separating parents from children and wants families detained together.\nBut passage of the House bill remains in doubt even after President Donald Trump met with lawmakers this week to support an immigration fix. GOP leaders have struggled to rally support from Republicans. And some lawmakers said Trump should give a more full-throated endorsement of the leadership-backed bill.\nCopyright 2018 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.}}
{{Agriculture ministers from the United States, Canada and Mexico expressed a mutual commitment to open and transparent trade after meeting in Savannah, Georgia, on Tuesday to discuss the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement.\nIt was the first trilateral meeting between U.S. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue, Canada's minister of agriculture, Lawrence MacAulay, and Mexico's secretary of agriculture, Jose Calzada, since U.S. President Donald Trump said NAFTA would need to be renegotiated.\nMore to come.}}
{{The mini heat wave of last week is but a distant memory now, as we drop to below-average temperatures for this time of year.\nThe region will pop back up to about 16 C tomorrow, which does fall into the average range, and with the sunshine back it's setting up to be a rather gorgeous fall weekend.\nKeep your sunscreen handy as the UV level may sit quite high before temperatures drop into the frosty zone Saturday night.\nSpeaking of frosty, upper Gatineau and Pontiac are under a frost advisory with area temperatures dropping into the zero range. On Saturday night, expect frost to form on your windows.\nnull null}}
{{Today we got a chance to hangout with big time triple threat…well quadruple threat! Singer, songwriter, dancer and philanthropist, Ne-Yo. For those of you who don’t know he’s written the biggest hits for Rihanna, Beyoncé, Celine Dion, Lionel Richie and much more.\nNe-Yo is very much popping back on the scene, he talked about how he made the decision to take a quick break to focus on his children. His youngest son was born around the time his album was getting released so he felt the need it was important to be a father. You go Ne-Yo\nWe asked if he loves singing or writing more and he said he loves writing period, he remembers the sessions, the vibe, he just enjoys the creative process! He talked about how he wrote ‘Irreplaceable’\nHe talked about the wildest rumor he heard and denied it for the a millionth time. The rumor stated he was gay and had a high school fling. He expressed that although he has respect for the LGBTQ community that rumor was a flat-out LIE and he never knew the guy who made the claim. He played ThinkQuick and almost won until the word CURLY…mind you he has a song called Curly! Whew chile the ghetto!\nHe will start filming of World of Dance in February with J-Lo stay watch out for him and his new Christmas coming soon!\nDon’t Miss Out! Follow The Russ Parr Show on Twitter and Instagram\nKeep Up With The Russ Parr Morning Show On Facebook Too!\nNe-Yo Talks New Music, Fatherhood + ‘World Of Dance’ was originally published on kysdc.com\nAlso On Black America Web:}}
{{Take a step back into 1920s and 30s New York City and through the doors of Harlem’s hottest nightclub, in an action-packed show celebrating the music and dance of the Cotton Club.\nPerformances by Duke Ellington, Louis Armstrong, Cab Calloway, Billie Holiday, Ella Fitzgerald, and Fats Waller would have had the club swinging – whilst dancers such as Bill ‘Bojangles’ Robinson and the Nicholas Brothers lit up the stage with their breathtaking routines.\nIn this show, the exhilarating dance and music of the Cotton Club is recreated by the fabulous Lindy Hop Dance Company alongside the Harry Strutters Hot Rhythm Orchestra, featuring American vocalist Marlene Hill and compere/vocalist Megs Etherington.\nOther music events to come to Buxton Opera House include the music of the 50s and 60s with the Rat Pack Live on Saturday 8 October at 7.30pm. And audiences are invited to leave their inhibitions at the door and prepare to experience An Evening of Burlesque on Sunday, October 9, at 7.30pm.\nSwinging at the Cotton Club is at Buxton Opera House on Sunday, October 2, at 7.30pm. Tickets £23.50 to £25.50. Contact 01298 72190 or www.buxtonoperahouse.org.uk}}
{{After a rollout that began with “Get Out” all the way back in January, Scottish pop group Chvrches are back with a new album, Love is Dead. The record, the band’s first since 2015’s Every Open Eye, finds the three-piece going in a more heavily modern pop-influenced direction than before.\nThe band worked with superproducer Greg Kurstin (Adele, Sia, Tegan & Sara) on nine out of the 13 tracks. One song, the nearly Imagine Dragons-y “Miracle”, was even produced by Steve Mac, most known for producing massive hits like Ed Sheeran’s “Shape of You,” Liam Payne’s “Strip That Down” and Years & Years’ recent “If You’re Over Me” as opposed to more indie-leaning groups. Meanwhile, there is a downtempo collaboration with Matt Berninger of the National titled “My Enemy”, as well as the bombastic odyssey “Never Say Die.”\nThe album was also mixed by Mark “Spike” Stent, who’s equally notable for his work with Sheeran and Coldplay as he is for acts like FKA Twigs and Massive Attack. Chvrches spent the week leading up to the album playing the new songs live, as documented on Stereogum. The band has also announced a tour of North America.\nStream Love is Dead below.}}
{{Dec 22 (Reuters) -\n* TRANSPORT CANADA SUSPENDS WEST WIND AVIATION‘S AIR OPERATOR CERTIFICATE\n* SUSPENSION PROHIBITS WEST WIND AVIATION FROM PROVIDING COMMERCIAL AIR SERVICES​\n* IDENTIFIED DEFICIENCIES DURING A POST-ACCIDENT INSPECTION OF WEST WIND AVIATION FROM DECEMBER 18 TO 20, 2017​\n* ‍WILL NOT ALLOW COMPANY TO RESUME ITS COMMERCIAL AIR SERVICE UNTIL IT DEMONSTRATES COMPLIANCE WITH AVIATION SAFETY REGULATIONS​ Source text for Eikon:}}
{{Deguchi aims for Canada's first Olympic judo gold after switch from Japan\nWorld number one Christa Deguchi has spoke of her ambition to win Canada's first Olympic gold medal in judo at the Tokyo 2020 Games, three years after switching allegiance to the nation from Japan.\nIn 2017, Deguchi changed her competitive nationality from her birthplace of Japan to Canada in a bid to qualify for the Olympics.\nShe was born in Nagano to a Japanese mother, but her father hails from Canada.\nAfter being approached in 2012 to switch nationality she refused, but later changed her mind.\n"Canada first contacted me when I was in high school," Deguchi said.\n"I was on Team Japan at the time and didn't think I was going to change countries."\nHer coach – who had trained her since she was three – advised Deguchi to choose the country that would give her the best chance of making the Games and she now does not have to battle Japanese judoka for her place.\nShortly before her 22nd birthday – the legal age in Japan to choose a citizenship for those with dual nationalities – she announced her decision to represent her father's homeland.\nHowever, she faced a potential issue with her dual-nationality as the International Judo Federation requires athletes to not compete for three years after switching countries.\nDue to not competing for Japan for a while, she faced little time on the sidelines, however.\nTsukasa Yoshida will likely be Christa Deguchi's biggest foe at Tokyo 2020 ©IJF\nDeguchi is heading towards the Games in fine form having won gold at last year's World Championships in Tokyo at 57 kilograms.\nShe defeated former Japanese team-mate Tsukasa Yoshida in the gold medal bout.\n"Winning gold for Canada was a special moment and a high point in my career," Deguchi said.\n"I try not to think about the details of the match or what results I need to get – I try to keep my mind as blank as possible and just focus on my fight and how I am going to throw my opponent."\nThe 24-year-old has continued to train in Japan having moved to Yamanashi from Nagano for university.\nOne of the most exciting potential judo showdowns is between herself and Yoshida, who stated after the 2019 World Championships: "If I meet her at the finals at Tokyo 2020, I will win".\nDeguchi is still to secure her position for the Games, but has one eye on gold.\n"I want to fight a few times before the Games and I still have to compete against a team-mate in Canada in a play-off to secure the Olympic spot," she said.\n"Of course my goal is to win Canada's first-ever judo gold medal but I don't think I am the favourite.\n"The 57kg category is one of the toughest divisions in judo – I will have to be at my best to accomplish my goal."}}
{{An International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) team of experts said Canada is committed to strengthening its regulatory framework for nuclear and radiation safety. The team also noted areas for further enhancement.\nThe Integrated Regulatory Review Service (IRRS) team today concluded an 11-day mission to review the regulatory safety framework in Canada. The mission was conducted at the request of the Government of Canada and hosted by the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC). The team also met with representatives of Natural Resources Canada and Health Canada.\nUsing IAEA safety standards and international best practices, IRRS missions are designed to strengthen the effectiveness of the national regulatory infrastructure, while recognizing the responsibility of each State to ensure nuclear and radiation safety.\n'Canada has a comprehensive framework for nuclear and radiation safety covering current facilities and activities,' said team leader Marta Ziakova, Chairperson of the Nuclear Regulatory Authority of Slovakia. 'Moreover, CNSC strives to continuously upgrade its regulatory framework to address new challenges in relation to upcoming technologies, such as small modular reactors.'\nNuclear power generates about 15 per cent of Canada's electricity. The country has 19 operating nuclear power reactors at four sites and develops and exports reactor technology. Canada also operates uranium mines and mills, processing and fuel fabrication facilities, and waste storage sites. Canada uses radiation sources in medical and industrial applications and in science and research. It operates five research reactors.\n'While we are always looking for opportunities for improvement and welcome recommendations from our international colleagues, the IRRS review confirms that the CNSC has a strong regulatory framework and continues to ensure the safe operation of nuclear facilities in Canada,' said Ramzi Jammal, CNSC Executive Vice-President and Chief Regulatory Operations Officer.\nThe 24-member team comprised 20 senior regulatory experts from 17 countries, as well as four IAEA staff members.\n'This mission recognizes Canada's ongoing commitment to continuous improvement and the implementation of the IAEA safety standards, which serve as the recognized international basis for nuclear and radiation safety,' said David Senior, Head of the IAEA's Regulatory Activities Section. 'The findings will help to enhance regulatory effectiveness in nuclear power plant ageing management and the safe handling of radioactive waste.'\nThe team observed regulatory inspection activities at power and research reactors, radioactive waste management facilities, a site with decommissioning activities, research centres, a conversion facility, a hospital, a radioactive sources production facility with transportation activities, an industrial radiography facility and an industrial irradiator.\nThe team identified several good practices, including:\nThe CNSC is highly transparent about its regulatory activities and decisions.\nHealth Canada has raised public awareness of naturally occuring radon.\nThe team provided several recommendations and suggestions aimed at enhancing Canada's regulatory framework, including:\nThe Government should enhance the policy and strategy for radioactive waste management.\nThe CNSC should consider better aligning its radiation protection requirements with IAEA safety standards.\nThe final mission report will be provided to the Government in about three months. The Government plans to make the report public.}}
{{Five-year-old Jose carries a drawing of his father after they were separated at the border. His story is featured in Wednesday's episode of "The Daily". (Photo: New York Times)\nThe latest episode of New York Times' 'The Daily' podcast features the story of a5-year-old migrant boy from Honduras who was sent to Michigan after being separated from his father.\nJosé was recently separated from his father as they were escaping violence in their home country. While José's father was detained at the border for illegally entering the U.S., José was put on a flight to Michigan after a foster parent here agreed to take him in.\nMore stories:\nBabies torn from immigrant parents land in Michigan: 'They need diapers'\nPeople ask #WhereAreTheGirls as immigration crisis heightens\nTorn from immigrant parents, 8-month-old baby lands in Michigan\nWhen José arrived in Michigan, he was holding drawings of his father, the only thing the child has left of him.\nWednesday's episode follows the recent reports of migrant children being separated from their parents at the border, which has drawn sharp criticism of the Trump administration's zero-tolerance immigration policy.\nThe episode, titled "Father and Son, Forced Apart at the Border" is available on Spotify and Apple Music.\nRead or Share this story: https://on.freep.com/2tlIPxD}}
{{Saving the indigenous people from the large scale influx of non-locals into the State.\nSecurity along the Indo-Myanmar border and at Jiribam beefed up to check the entry of Rohingya Muslims who have fled their homestead in the neighbouring country following the crackdown launched by the Myanmarese army.\nAssembly Speaker Yumnam Khemchand making it clear that it is the immigrants from Bangladesh who pose a bigger threat than Rohingya Muslims.\nClearly the focus is on the need to check the incursion of outsiders into the State and while there may be different takes on the view of the Speaker, none can deny that the world has seen how unchecked infiltration from Bangladesh has drastically impacted on the demographic composition of Assam.\nHow the influx of Bangladeshi immigrants gave birth to the anti-foreigner movement in Assam under the influential and powerful All Assam Students’ Union in the last century is a lesson that cannot be forgotten in a hurry.\nTripura is an example of how large scale influx of non-local people can decimate the local people to the status of second class citizens with the non-local people today controlling everything, the economy and politics of the State.\nIt is this apprehension which has reared its head in Manipur in the form of the intense movement launched under the aegis of the Joint Committee on Inner Line Permit System to regulate the inflow of non-local people into the State.\nAgain it is the apprehension of foreigners overwhelming the economy and politics of the country which has led to the sharp vigil at the border in the wake of the large scale displacement of Rohingya Muslims.\nClearly the State Government cannot be caught napping on these crucial issues.\nIt is here that the observation of the Assembly Speaker gains significance.\nMore than likely that Yumnam Khemchand was not merely shooting in the dark but may have had some feedbacks.\nWould be good if the details can be spelt out before the media in Manipur. A look at the demographic composition of Jiribam district will certainly help.\nAlso significant to note that United Committee, Manipur has taken exception to the statement of All Jiribam Linguistic Organisation.\nWhat is the antecedents of the members of this organisation is the natural question that follows. Vote bank politics.\nFor long this has been an election tactic adopted by many unscrupulous political leaders and one may surmise that the same may have happened at Jiribam and the spill over factor in other parts of the State cannot be dismissed that easily.\nAssam today stands as an example and if no lesson has been learnt from the Assam experience then the future is indeed gloomy.\nThis is about incursion from a foreign country but take a look at Tripura where the indigenous people have virtually been reduced to a minority in their own land and the apprehension felt here in Manipur cannot be dismissed with the wave of the hand.\nSource: The Sangai Express}}
{{Relax and kick back tomorrow in Bexhill with free Music on the Bandstand outside the De La Warr Pavilion from 2-6pm..\nThis is presented by Union Music Store which is the brain-child of Jamie and Stevie Freeman.\nThey simply love the music they sell and want to share it with as many people as possible.\nTheir lineup will include amazing artists such as Mike Ross who writes soul wrenchin’, riff bustin’ songs that make audiences want to share the tale of his life’s journey and the lessons he’s learned. The Self Help Group inhabit the musical spaces between folk, Americana and indie; the band formed in 2009 when songwriter Mark Bruce decided to clean years of dust off his old 12 string guitar and start writing songs, recording demos in his darkened loft space in Brighton.\nThe Jamie Freeman Agreement is the UK’s very own Americana virtuosos (Spiral Earth). With 100 Miles From Town they set about defining English Americana with a mix of styles embracing folk, country and echoes of the 60’s. They are signed to the Union Music Store record label, and have released two albums with a third on the way.\nNoble Jacks are a rip-roaring alt-folk band with roof-raising energy, whose warm electro-acoustic interactions fuse together a mixture of folky rhythms and engaging lyricism. The band encompasses heartfelt, yet uptempo songs showcasing fiddle, blues harmonica and big anthem toplines. The band has just signed to the Union Music Store label and will be releasing the debut album early 2017. For more detail and timings go to www.dlwp.com.\nDon’t miss out on all the latest breaking news where you live.\nHere are four ways you can be sure you’ll be amongst the first to know what’s going on.\n1) Make our website your homepage at www.bexhillobserver.net/\n2) Like our Facebook page at www.facebook.com/bexhillobserver\n3) Follow us on Twitter @BexhillObs\n4) Register with us by clicking on ‘sign in’ (top right corner). You can then receive our daily newsletter AND add your point of view to stories that you read here.\nAnd do share with your family and friends - so they don’t miss out!\nThe Bexhill Observer - always the first with your local news.\nBe part of it.}}
{{click to enlarge YouTube\nThe town preacher in the movie Footloose tried to ban rock music and dancing—sound familiar?\nclick to enlarge YouTube\nCook County has become the fascist principal who tells the slacker rebel to cut his hair and get a job.\nPop quiz: Who uttered the following line—a Cook County official commenting on the legalities of a tax on small music venues booking rock, rap, and DJ shows, or Reverend Shaw frompreaching about a ban on loud music and dancing?"Even if this was not a law—which it is, I'm afraid—I would have a lot of difficulty endorsing an enterprise which is as fraught with genuine peril as I believe this one to be."You had to think about it for a second, didn't you?In the past week or so, Cook County officials have essentially transformed into cartoonish, mustache-twirling villains from a snobs-versus-slobs 80s movie. They're the functional equivalent of John Lithgow's self-righteous Pentecostal preacher character from the 1984 film Footloose , outlawing dancing and rock 'n' roll out of fear of the spiritual corruption of the youth. (Ironically, Kevin Bacon's character is from Chicago and is shocked at the town's conservatism.) They're the fun-hating suits and stiffs who want to turn beloved clubhouses into parking lots; the fascist principal who tells the iconoclasts to cut their hair and get jobs; the priggish cultural elitist sneering at the music that "kids these days" love while huffily insisting something like Beethoven is "real art."At least that's what I gathered after reading the news the Reader broke about how the county is trying to strong-arm small music venues into ponying up hundreds of thousands of dollars in back taxes. Its spurious claim is that clubs with a capacity of 750 or less that book rock, country, rap, and DJ shows have been cheating the county out of funds from a 3 percent county amusement tax because they're taking advantage of an exemption set aside for "live theatrical, live musical or other live cultural performances."In the county's view, only opera, ballet, symphony orchestras, and other so-called "fine arts" deserve a tax break. And by "fine," the county seems to imply arts events where white people of a certain age and income level politely clap while holding programs, where socialites go to rub elbows clad in expensive Italian fabric and tinkle gold-rimmed glasses at cocktail receptions. Venues that spell theater as "theatre," that have trustees and boards and big donors.The county is seeking to make the burden of the amusement tax fall instead on blue-collar bars and clubs that book . . . [] dreadfully lowbrow forms of music, especially venues that regularly book DJs. Because this is real-life Chicago in 2016, not an 80s comedy, there's no Ernest around to save camp, no Goonies with fistfuls of pirate treasure—just venues like the Empty Bottle, Beauty Bar, and Evil Olive employing a handful of lawyers to protect them from getting suddenly bilked by the government.Here's possibly the most surreal aspect of the whole ordeal: those lawyers will appear at a hearing scheduled for October 17 to reportedly present evidence and testimony from musicologists and working DJs in an attempt to convince the county of the cultural value of, say, house music. In effect, the county has put EDM on trial.County officials shouldn't need experts to attest to the cultural value of electronic music. All they have to do is look around Chicago. The record collection of the late, legendary Chicago DJ Frankie Knuckles, the Godfather of House, is on permanent display at Theaster Gates's Stony Island Arts Bank. Knuckles has an honorary street dedicated to him, as does the seminal DJ squad the Hot Mix 5, whose individual members also have been recognized with honorary street designations. The Museum of Contemporary Art hosted a David Bowie exhibition in 2014 and '15 and regularly hosts DJ performances at its afterhours events, and . . . hell, why do I even need to explain this?The truth is that Cook County isn't really interested in some kind of philosophical discussion about the nature of high art. It's acting as a tax collector, of course, not a cultural gatekeeper. It could try to extract funds from the opera, symphony, or moneyed fine-arts patrons with say, a financial transaction tax , but instead it decided to play the bully and shake down the little guys—the PBR-stained bars and divey dance clubs—for their lunch money.The county's villainy is absurd enough that you're forgiven if a certain 80s Twisted Sister refrain worms its way into your brain: "We're not going to take it! / No! We ain't gonna take it!"As much as I'd like this legal proceeding to end like an 80s music video or movie—an unlikely group of music-loving misfits rebelling against the fascist authority figure or banding together to organize a fund-raising concert—those who are opposed to the county's controversial stance are probably going to have to do this the hard way: by signing this petition that Chance the Rapper tweeted out last night, by writing and calling county commissioners, contacting Cook County Board president Toni Preckwinkle, and showing up to the October 17 meeting to give 'em hell (and maybe a Daft Punk album).}}
{{Welsh stars Rhydian, Richard and Adam take centre stage in a truly magical evening of songs.\nThey will perform classical and contemporary creations at Buxton Opera House on October 7.\nRhydian, who first came to the nation’s attention when he appeared on the X-Factor back in 2007, has gone from strength to strength winning Brit Awards and also recently starring in the national tour of Little Shop of Horrors.\nRhydian is joined on stage by brothers Richard and Adam who shot to fame in 2013 when they reached the finals in Britain’s Got Talent. They have become one of the most successful acts to emerge from the competition. Their debut album, The Impossible Dream, spent four consecutive weeks at number one and their subsequent albums have all enjoyed top 10 success.\nDon’t miss this chance to see some of the most successful classical crossover artists.\nThe concert starts at 7.30pm. Tickets £20. Contact 01298 72190 or www.buxtonoperahouse.org.uk}}
{{July 3 (Reuters) - Canadian auto sales in June rose 1.3 percent to 171,608 vehicles, industry consultant Desrosiers said on Wednesday.\nFord Motor Co saw its sales fall 6 percent, but it remained the top-selling automaker in Canada in June with sales of 28,703 vehicles.\nChrysler Group, majority-owned by Fiat SpA, was second, with sales of 26,054 vehicles, 11 percent higher than a year ago.\nGeneral Motors Co was third. Its sales rose 8 percent to 24,707 vehicles.}}
{{* C$ at C$1.0526 vs US$, or 95 U.S. cents * June housing starts topped expectations at 199,586 units * Markets await Bernanke speech on Wednesday * Bond prices mixed By Solarina Ho TORONTO, July 9 (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar firmed against the U.S. dollar on Tuesday, helped in part by stronger-than-expected domestic housing data and firmer oil prices. The seasonally adjusted annualized rate of housing starts was 199,586 units in June, a decrease from May, which was revised higher to 204,616. Analysts polled by Reuters had expected 187,000 starts in June. "It helped early on. But (the housing market) remains too strong. At some point, there needs to be a correction," said Charles St-Arnaud, economist and currency strategist in New York with Nomura Securities. Crude oil prices finished the day with moderate gains, supported in part by worries that violence in Egypt could ignite conflict in the broader Middle East. The Canadian dollar, which was mostly outperforming other major currencies, finished its North American session at C$1.0526 versus the greenback, or 95 U.S. cents. It closed on Monday at C$1.0560, or 94.70 U.S. cents. The U.S. dollar rallied to a three-year high against major currencies on Tuesday on expectations the Federal Reserve will reduce stimulus at a time when other major central banks are likely to ease further. Trading was subdued overall, however, as markets await a speech by U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke on Wednesday. Investors are keen for any indication of when the Fed will begin reining in its stimulus. Current expectations are for sometime this fall. "Everything Bernanke says is critically important to the market these days," said Blake Jespersen, managing director, foreign exchange sales, at BMO Capital Markets. "We're seeing a lot of participants waiting for his statement on Wednesday before putting on much trading activity. "In Canadian dollar terms, we do expect some more weakness, but it already has moved quite a bit now and we think it is trying to find somewhat of a bottom around these levels," Jespersen added. He said C$1.05 to C$1.0650 appears to be the range for the Canadian dollar over the next little while. Prices for Canadian government debt were mixed, with the two-year bond adding 3 Canadian cents to yield 1.147 percent and the benchmark 10-year bond flat with a yield of 2.474 percent.}}
{{Complete Guide To Burning ManAn additional resource to all there is to know about attending this year's Burning Man\nAmerica's 5 Most Relaxing Lazy RiversKick back and relax on an inflatable tube at any of the five most relaxing lazy rivers in America\n6 Ways To Protect Your Favorite Beach\n7 Most Beautiful Mountain Ranges In The WorldThe world is home to phenomenally beautiful mountain ranges, formed tens of millions of years ago when colliding tectonic plates folded and upthrusted, buckling from the powerful movement. Today, we appreciate their vastly different appearances..}}
{{The other day, my 3-and-a-half-year-old asked me, “Mommy, do you have a middle name?”\nI explained to her that, where I came from, they didn’t give middle names — only first names and last names. (I didn’t get into patronymics with her, which appeared on all official documents in the Soviet Union.) “You’re so silly, mommy,” she retorted. “You do have a middle name. I know it. It’s Asya.”\nKids are observant like that, aren’t they? They notice when your babushka (grandma in Russian) calls you "Asya," not "Jessie" like everyone else. Asya is not my middle name. It is my birth name. I changed it like I changed much about myself in an effort to Americanize.\nI was a Jewish Soviet refugee who came here with an influx of “Russians,” as we were labeled, in 1989. OTB some called us — “off the boat” — even though we came by plane (and train and plane and another plane). There were roaring applause as the “boat” of Russians landed in JFK. “U-S-A, U-S-A, U-S-A.” But not so much applause in the roach and rat-infested shelter that followed. Today, I may be just another suburban mom, but watching the way we are treating asylum seekers on the southern border, I'm absolutely heartbroken.\nMine was a tough journey through tight living quarters in Austria and Italy. Then again, everything is relative — we were not on a raft, for example. Still, food was scarce at times. I can close my eyes now and see my dad grabbing boxes of overripe, discarded fruit from a grocery store as a guard dog barks and growls in alarm. I see him, my young father, in the faces of the Central American fathers that are being separated from their children at the U.S. border as we speak. The impulse to protect one's family is the most distinctive of features.\nPhoto by John Moore/Getty Images\nEn route to America, my little brother and I had an anarchic blast at times; we also freaked out a lot. I got hit by a car at one point. My brother, not yet 3, was inconsolable at night — distraught, confused. I can hear him still in the wails of the children at the border. Except, of course, these children are being ripped away from their parents — the only stability that had remained in their young lives.\nTheir trauma will be irreversible. I know this for certain because even my own trauma has solidified in my bones. I would love to tell you that American kids were kind to me when I arrived. Though as my pixelated American teacher, Oprah Winfrey, has taught me, “Forgiveness is giving up the hope that the past could have been any different.”\nI didn’t understand a goddamn word in school; I stifled sobs of displacement. I missed my best friend who’d kissed me on the nose before I left and then clutched her babushka in tears as my train pulled away.\nSome Russian girls who’d been here longer offered to translate for the price of toys I did not have. But, I learned English so quickly. “Lemmesee” was my first phrase, which I thought was one word. “Lemmesee” I would say to everyone in regards to everything, “Lemmesee.” I yearned to take it all in — this America.\nPhoto courtesy of Jessie Kanzer\nI have spent nearly three decades since then becoming American: eliminating my accent, changing my name, swapping the culture of my birth for Beverly Hills 90210 and, also, Oprah — which I watched on a dinky old television set (the kind with the knobs) that we’d procured from a Brooklyn street-corner.\nI’ve lived here for nearly 29 years. I’ve been a citizen for 24. I’m married to an American. I have American children. Yet, I don’t feel very ‘American,' all of a sudden. I feel ‘other.’\nPhoto by John Moore/Getty Images\nI identify with ‘the other.’ My heart is with the mothers in the detention centers in Texas and Arizona. My prayers are with the children — I keep seeing my own daughters in their midst; I can make out my little refugee self in their pained faces. “There, but for the grace of God, go I,” I think.\nThere, but for the grace of God, go all of us.}}
{{Get the Think newsletter.\nBy Andrew R. Chow\nIf you were hoping music would be an escape outlet this year, you’d be disappointed. With the major exception of Ariana Grande and her luminous optimism, the most prominent artists in music wrote songs in 2018 rife with anxiety, disillusionment and defiance to match the country’s overall atmosphere. It was a year of upheaval and experimentation, with rising newcomers and veterans alike tapping into misery.\nOne big winner was hip-hop, which pummeled its way to the top of the charts, doubling its presence in the Billboard Top 10 from the year before. While ascendant rappers of previous eras might have celebrated their newfound successes, 2018’s crop — from Juice WRLD to Post Malone to Lil Pump — confronted loneliness, addiction and paranoia.\nIf you were hoping music would be an escape outlet this year, you’d be disappointed.\nSome artists wreaked havoc not through their lyrics but in transgressions against form. Kanye West and Tierra Whack chopped down the album to a few pristine crumbs, while Migos, Drake and Rae Sremmurd stretched theirs toward a streaming-friendly interminability. Both Earl Sweatshirt and Blueface raged against the convention of rapping in time, albeit in very different ways. And a crop of young female rockers (Lucy Dacus, Courtney Barnett, Mitski, Soccer Mommy) shook rock by its collar, injecting guitar-driven music with startling and invigorating new perspectives and melodies.\nThe artists who created the year’s 10 best albums hail from the Bronx, Houston, Richmond and beyond. While some were manufactured for top of the charts and others are decidedly anti-commercial, they all operate within the larger pop sphere; they possess astonishing, innovative songcraft and display a bent for mischief and exploring contradictions. Here they are.\n10. Cardi B, “Invasion of Privacy”\nIn an era of mercurial public figures, Cardi B stood out for her ebullient, outsized persona and her ability to bottle lighting bolts of energy and fire them off to the world in tweet-sized portions. She’s been delivering quippy one-liners and clapbacks through social media and reality television for years — so in hindsight, it’s not at all surprising that she could so seamlessly convert her verbal gifts into music.\nHer debut album, “Invasion of Privacy,” is stacked with these moments, each of which encapsulates her wit, joy and brassy confidence. The line “I gotta stay out of Gucci / I'm finna run out of hangers,” from the album standout “Drip,” made even Kanye West jealous.\n9. Colin Self, “Siblings”\nPeace and destruction live side by side on the second album by Colin Self, an Oregon-born electronic composer. While songs like “Survival” are Enya-esque in their serene beauty, others are frightening: “Research Sister,” for example, splices together ghostly operatic samples and splintered cymbal crashes, conjuring visceral horror like a sonic Guernica.\nThe mission of Self — whose work explores queerness and resistance — is not one of chaos but rather community. He comingles synth-pop, political poetry, science-fiction and techno. “Quorum” samples the banter and laughter of a group of women, turning everyday conversation into a conduit of power and solidarity.\n8. Kacey Musgraves, “Golden Hour”\nNo album this year was more aptly titled than “Golden Hour,” which oozes with both the glowing warmth of a Nashville afternoon and the anxiety of impending nightfall. Within big country-pop melodies and sun-soaked guitar strums, Musgraves muses on the fleeting nature of love, capturing both its early effects (“Butterflies) and the agony as it slips away (“Space Cowboy”).\nMusgrave’s observational and empathetic powers hit their peak on “Mother,” when she zooms out from love to life itself. She sings about yearning to be with her mother — while her mother yearns for her mother, who has died. It’s a wrenching portrait of three generations of women, delivered in less than 80 seconds.\n7. Key! and Kenny Beats, “777”\nKenny Beats was not nominated for the 2019 Grammys for Producer of the Year, but he should have been. The 27-year-old spent the year churning out dozens of beats for Vince Staples, Young Thug, J.I.D, Rico Nasty and many others. He employs the same toolkit and energy that drives mainstream hip-hop, but colors and curdles his beats with distinct timbres and harmonic flourishes.\nHis most impressive showcase is this collaboration with the Atlanta rapper Key! Kenny’s beats wobble with slightly detuned pianos, tiny flutes and stuttering bass drums, providing the perfect foundation for Key! to insert his peculiar brand of jovial enthusiasm. (“Love on ice / Kristi Yamaguchi / Your love got me goofy” is one of the silliest and most addictive choruses this year.) The project has a shaggy, unkempt charm; it’s perfect for workouts or pre-games, or just for bopping along to in your car.\n6. Earl Sweatshirt, “Some Rap Songs”\nGood luck trying to sing along with Earl Sweatshirt on his fourth album, “Some Rap Songs.” He mutters his dense, tongue-twisting lyrics barely above a whisper, veering in and out of time, his voice obscured by flickering soul samples.\nThis purposeful alienation is transfixing. The 22-year-old Odd Future member has long rapped about his anxiety and depression, and “Some Rap Songs” shows him at his most opaque and hermetic: He muses on stagnation, the weight of expectations and his conflicted feelings about his father — who died this year. “ “I've been spending more money than I'm making / Stuck in Trump Land, watching subtlety decaying,” he raps on “Veins.”\nAnd while you could spend days unpacking his assonance-flashing lyricism, the album is equally astonishing if you tune out the words and simply listen to his flow over the vintage soul loops, which are pulled from the quiet storm era of R&B and spliced in strange, disconcerting ways. There’s no record this year that sounds remotely similar.\n5. Beach House, “7”\nThe Baltimore dream pop band Beach House has become so synonymous with hazy bliss that the Chainsmokers, in pursuit of #chillvibes, named both a song and an upcoming album after them.\nBut Beach House is about so much more than a vague sense of cool. Their seventh album is their strongest body of work to date: masterfully written and engineered, with thrilling sonic surprises that cannon ball into pools of rapturous synthetic placidity.\nModern pop culture’s churn of fame rewards stars with explosive talent and pays less attention to consistency. It’s been remarkable to watch Beach House’s gradual growth over the last decade, as they cement their place as one of the great American rock bands in recent memory.\n4. Mitski, “Be The Cowboy”\nKanye may have gotten more attention for his seven-song albums, but it was the indie singer-songwriter Mitski who launched a much more convincing and lacerating campaign against bloat. Eleven of the 14 songs on “Be the Cowboy” clock in at under two-and-a-half minutes. Some even cut off in the middle of phrases.\nThis radical concision is fitting for a work that explores longing and transience. Mitski creates half-finished worlds, staging and breaking up marriages, drowning mutely, doing laundry. And beneath the charming and often upbeat musical settings, a barely concealed rage simmers. After listening to the danceable, existential freakout “Nobody,” you’ll never hear disco the same way again.\n3. Drake, “Scorpion”\nDrake is wrapping up one of the most dominant calendar years in pop history: four Billboard No. 1 hits, countless streaming records, dozens of pristine guest verses and one unavoidable dance craze.\nHis year’s centerpiece is “Scorpion,” the first masterwork of the streaming era. Clocking in at an hour-and-a-half — triple the length of “Be the Cowboy” — “Scorpion” is an exhaustive a la carte menu with options galore for every mood. There’s defiance (“Mob Ties”), uplift (“Nice For What”), sensuality (“After Dark”) and misery (“Jaded”). There are not one, but three songs of the summer contenders: “God’s Plan,” “Nice For What” and “In My Feelings” (one of them is probably stuck in your head right now). You can listen to “Scorpion” however you want — but please don’t jump out of a moving car to do so.\n2. Travis Scott, “Astroworld”\n“Astroworld” is a drug-fueled, cameo-stuffed fun house that perfectly embodies 2018 rap in all of its weirdness and anxiety. Scott delves deep into his psyche, recounting a bad trip on “Stargazing” and peeking through the curtains at his foes on “5% Tint.”\nHe’s much looser when sharing the spotlight with his parade of famous friends, who he pushes into increasingly strange and spellbinding territories. He lets Stevie Wonder and John Mayer run wild on harmonica and guitar, respectively; he gleefully trades bars with his inheritor Gunna on “Yosemite” and even has the audacity to cut off Drake mid-rhyme on one of the year’s very best songs, “Sicko Mode.”\nThese guests often overshadow Scott himself. But Scott half-admits this on “Sicko Mode:” “Who put this sh*t together — I’m the glue!” he yelps. He’s the creative force that binds together the best hip-hop album of the year.\n1. Lucy Dacus, “Historian”\nThe singer-songwriter Lucy Dacus proudly embraces an everywoman persona throughout her second album, “Historian.” On “Timefighter,” she reduces herself to the mean with a shrug: “I’m just good as anybody / I’m just as bad as anybody.” The screaming guitars tell a different story.\nDacus is one of the foremost talents working in rock music today. She is a bracing lyricist who weaves together startling turns of phrase; an expert arranger who gradually builds her songs to maximize their emotional punch. Her best songs, like “Night Shift” and “Timefighter,” sprawl past five-and-a-half minutes. Just when you think they’ve hit their dramatic and sonic peak, Dacus climbs another level.\nAnd while many other albums this year lack cohesion, “Historian” is a complete package, with earworm singles and blazing extended epics tied together by amusing asides. It starts tiny, with the discomfort of a bungled kiss, and builds momentum until reaching the commanding capstone, “Pillar of Truth,” which unflinchingly surveys the generations of women who endured before her and will after. The song, like the album, is an ode to resilience and quotidian struggle — it may initially seem small and plain, but reveals its brilliance with time.}}
{{(CNN) The White House strongly pushed back on a report that President Donald Trump spoke about immigrants in a dismissive and demeaning fashion during a June meeting with top administration officials.\nThe denial came in response to explosive reporting from the New York Times, which wrote that, according to two unnamed officials, Trump said during a meeting in June that people coming from Haiti “all have AIDS,” that recent Nigerian immigrants would never “go back to their huts” in Africa and that Afghanistan is a terrorist haven.\nWhite House press secretary Sarah Sanders issued a statement blasting the paper and denying that Trump had made the comments.\n“General Kelly, General McMaster, Secretary Tillerson, Secretary Nielsen, and all other senior staff actually in the meeting deny these outrageous claims and it’s both sad and telling the New York Times would print the lies of their anonymous ‘sources’ anyway,” Sanders said.\nThe report said the Oval Office meeting during the summer included Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, then-Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly and senior officials, including White House adviser Stephen Miller, who the Times said had provided Trump with a list of how many immigrants received visas to enter the United States in 2017.\nThe Times report said Kelly and Tillerson tried to respond by saying many of the visas were for short-term travelers, but that as Trump continued, Kelly and Miller “turned their ire” against Tillerson, who threw his arms up and retorted that perhaps he should stop issuing visas altogether.\nThe Times said its report was the product of more than three dozen interviews. The explosive and disparaging remarks about immigrants attributed to the president were sourced to a pair of unnamed officials, one who the Times said was present in the meeting, and another who was briefed about the comments by a second attendee. But the Times says several other participants told them they “did not recall” the President using those words.\nThe-CNN-Wire™ & © 2017 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.}}
{{Photo courtesy of Kerry Steib\nAs the director of social impact at Spotify, Kerry Steib taps into the power of music, technology and community to drive meaningful social change. In other words, every music-loving millennial’s dream job. Spotify’s social impact efforts are impressive for several reasons, including how effectively they engage multiple stakeholders – artists, fans, employees, partners – to collaborate on solutions. This holistic engagement, combined with how closely social impact efforts tie to Spotify’s business, is due in large part to Kerry’s leadership. I sat down with her to learn more about Spotify’s unique approach to social impact and the path that led her to this role.\nCan you tell us more about your role leading social impact and what’s involved in a typical day?\nOur social impact team brings artists and fans together to create social change through music and Spotify’s platform. The programs we create start with the idea that music is often a way into exploring something new -- a new perspective, idea, culture, or perception of yourself. These explorations can result in increased knowledge, empathy and action.\nFor example, we worked with Kealing Middle School in Austin, TX to develop a music production space where kids from diverse backgrounds could meet and collaborate together. To encourage our audience to vote, we shared the stories of eight artists on topics like student debt, guns, and healthcare to make these topics more personal.\nI work across the entire company, tapping into the power of our technology, employees, partners, artists, and music fans to create these programs. A lot of my time is spent with nonprofits and experts to gain a better understanding of the issues we’re working on or learning about their work for future projects, which is one of my favorite parts of the gig!\nSpotify is headquartered in Sweden. How do you see corporate social responsibility (CSR) and social impact different than in a typical American company?\nWhen I joined Spotify five years ago, I didn’t realize that we already were a values-driven company. From the beginning, Spotify was built on the idea that music should be a part of everyone’s life. I was inspired by our commitment to openness and access for everyone, which led me to start social impact at Spotify. I felt there was so much more we could be doing to make that happen inside and outside our platform.}}
{{It'll be a rainy Boxing Day, says Environment Canada.\n"A brief period of freezing rain is possible early Monday morning as a warm front approaches," reads a special weather statement for Toronto issued early Sunday morning,\nTemperatures will rise rapidly with strong southeasterly winds across the regions.\nThere could also be a travel impact, with widespread rain through the middle of the morning. That rain should end late in the day.\n"Freezing rain warnings may be needed as the event approaches," the statement said.}}
{{2016 certainly wasn't a renaissance one for British guitar songs, as another 12 months slipped by without the much longed for Oasis reunion, but whilst the brothers feuded theatrically solo artists of one persuasion or another vied for most of our attention.\nBand-wise, there are some notable omissions from this list - Radiohead and Metallica in particular flew the flag for maudlin and angry blokes respectively - whilst Frank Ocean and Beyonce still managed to cut a respectable amount of edge despite their god-like statuses. The most interesting moments however remained off the beaten track as these ten contenders show: from sparkling, assured pop, arty soundscapes to the reinvention of seemingly exhausted genres, great things and little respites were hidden in nooks and crannies well worth becoming lost in. 2017 will be better.\nShura - Nothing's Real\nNot many ex-footballers will get to reimagine True Blue era Madonna with such zeal, but Alexandra Denton's tricksy, retro weaving debut felt at times like curling one in from 30 yards.\nDanny Brown - Atrocity Exhibition\nKanye may have taken the headlines, but rap's voice of invention in 2016 was Danny Brown's. Along with a star turn on The Avalanches first album in 16 years, Atrocity Exhibition proved him comfortable anywhere across the movement's ever widening creative spectrum.\nTim Hecker - Love Streams\nHecker somewhat cryptically described Love Streams as "Liturgical aesthetics after Yeezus", but it's merits were thankfully easier to bracket; baroque atmospherics, the fragile and the grandiose together in raw communion, genuine moments of beauty. It wasn't always easy to love, but it proved impossible to forget.\nWild Nothing - Life On Pause\nJack Tatum's one man band approach took him even closer on Life On Pause to the risky position of head chef and food critic; luckily his muses remained of a high order, craftsmen such as Mark Hollis, Paddy McAloon and Damon Albarn, each helping to inspire a record of rare poise and full of songs both joyful and elegant.\nSteve Mason - Meet The Humans\nNow more at ease personally than at any time since The Beta Band capitulated under the weight of expectation, Meet The Humans was Steve Mason's most orthodox solo project yet. Still mad as hell with the state of things, his music now by contrast displays a subtle hue that evokes more strongly than ever a Caledonian Neil Finn; no higher recommendation should be needed.\nAsh Koosha - I AKA I\nThis year's victor in the Wildly Inventive category was created by a man who was once in an indie rock band. This isn't usually punishable by death - unless the band is from Iran. Now having sought asylum in Europe the freakish, compressed and staccato beats of I AKA I are closest in tone to veteran IDM'ers Autechre; Koosha's acute sense of being a stranger everywhere makes for a truly intense, spiritual listen.\nLet's Eat Grandma - I, Gemini\nWhilst there was a certain amount of Twins-From-The-Shining-Go-Wicca chutzpah around Rosa Walton and Jenny Hollingworth's visual identity, their debut swung wildly from DIY Year 10 hip-hop (Eat Shiitake Mushrooms) to the almost creepy (Rapunzel). Odd? Sometimes. Fascinating? Always.\nThe nonkeen - The Gamble\nOr, how Nils Frahm confirmed that when it comes to something as straightforward as post and pre club chill out drone and/or ambient audioscapes, he's pretty much the man. This is one he made with two mates that he hasn't worked with since they were a live act who split up after an on stage accident in 1997: it sounds like a sort of playlist from a brilliantly obscure Danish TV series about secret agents who smoke pipes and save the world from the threat of vegetables.\nMichael Kiwanuka - Love & Hate\nIt could've gone any number of ways for former Sound Of..winner Michael Kiwanuka: left drifting after the hullabaloo around his well-received first release Home Again eventually quietened, Love & Hate wasn't so much a well worked progression as a Damascene transformation. Now writing songs mired in the more primal elements of human nature, it's nakedness and anger stood it apart from the gloss of a thousand other soul-kitsch alikes and on Falling he created one of the year's great songwriting peaks.\nHamilton Leithuaser & Rostam - I Had A Dream That You Were Mine\nWhether The Walkmen's Hamilton Leithauser and Vampire Weekend's Rostam Batmanglij intended to completely eclipse both their former bands at a stroke is open to speculation; like a Rat Pack duo staggering from one hipster bar from another, this record sounds new and faded at the same time. Playing a cast of weather beaten, sardonic and down on their luck outcasts Leithauser is perfection itself: I Had A Dream That You Were Mine is so full of love for the stories it tells you cannot help yourself by getting swept away with both its warmth and the duo's affectionate, brilliantly observed showmanship.}}
{{WASHINGTON - After days of outcry, the Trump administration appears to be backing off of a contentious new policy that separated more than 2,000 immigrant children from their parents who crossed the border illegally.\nThe "zero tolerance" policy, announced in April by U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions, has mandated the separation of thousands of children from their parents who face criminal prosecution for illegal border crossings.\nBut President Donald Trump said Wednesday morning that he would sign an executive order to end the family separations.\n“We’re keeping families together but we have to keep the border strong," he said at the White House. Early Wednesday morning he had said his action would be “somewhat pre-emptive and ultimately matched by legislation.”\nThe Texas Tribune thanks its sponsors. Become one.\nFacing widespread, harsh criticism from both sides of the aisle and all corners of the country, Trump at first defended the policy by saying he was simply following the law and insisted, incorrectly, that only Congress could stop the separations.\nUnder past administrations, most first-time border crossers had not been criminally prosecuted for illegally entering the country.\nNow, when parents are charged with illegal border entry, they’re separated from their children, who cannot be sent to jails. The policy of keeping kids — some reportedly as young as 8 months old — away from their parents and under the care of strangers has drawn strong rebukes from lawmakers, religious leaders and immigration advocates across the country.\nEven in Texas, where prominent Republicans tend to hew to the Trump line, many statewide Republican leaders, including Gov. Greg Abbott and both of the state's U.S. senators, had been calling for ending the separations. Sens. Ted Cruz and John Cornyn have both been pursuing legislation that would do just that. And congressional Republican leaders said this week they would vote on a broad immigration bill, including the separations, on Thursday.\nCruz’s bill, announced on Monday, would keep asylum-seeking families together except in extreme circumstances, like in cases of “aggravated criminal conduct” or “threat of harm to the children.” His proposal would also have doubled the number of federal immigration judges to 750; authorized new temporary shelters that could accommodate families; and expedited the asylum process to be completed in two weeks. Asylum cases, which are full legal processes requiring bodies of evidence, can take months or years to handle.\nCornyn has also said he’s working on legislation to keep families together, efforts that could combine with Cruz’s bill.}}
{{Fans of The Kinks are in for a spectacular evening with the arrival of Sunny Afternoon to the area.\nThe band from North London hit the music scene big time in the early Sixties with hits including You Really Got Me and Lola.\nBrothers Ray and Dave Davies formed The Kinks. Ray was the primary songwriter and the band’s definitive sound rocked a nation and influenced generations of music lovers.\nSunny Afternoon has won multiple awards during its run in the West End, and now the show is on tour with stops at The Waterside in Aylesbury and Milton Keynes Theatre.\nProducer Richard Darbourne said: “Ray Davies is one of the best British songwriters we’ve ever had. There is an iconic Kinks sound and some amazing song writing. He wrote for a particular age, he was very observational. It resonates with that particular time and it either induces a memory in people today, or brings in new listeners who hear their music for the first time on radio.”\nThe show promises to have a real concert vibe to it.\nMr Darbourne said: “There is no band in the pit, it’s a quite spectacular event. The actors are musicians as well. Finding the right personnel for any show is a major challenge. We needed four Kinks and their understudies and they have to learn the music and sound like The Kinks with an authentic sound. There is a catwalk that goes into the audience, it’s a logistical nightmare but we’ve kept it for the tour. We felt it was important to retain it and keep the show as it is seen in the West End.”\nSunny Afternoon comes to Milton Keynes Theatre from Tuesday August 30 - Saturday September 3. To book call 0844 871 7652 or visit www. atgtickets.co.uk/miltonkeynes. It then visits Waterside Theatre in Aylesbury from Tuesday September 27 to Saturday October 1. Call the box office on 0844 871 7607 or visit www.atgtickets.co.uk/ aylesbury.}}
{{Chris Cornell received a special tribute from Alice in Chains during their set at the Rock on The Range festival on Friday. The band performed Soundgarden's "Hunted Down" and "Boot Camp" to mark the first anniversary of the singer's death. See some fan filmed footage here\nUCR reports that after British Prince Harry and American actress Meghan Markle tied the knot on Saturday and became the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, Sir Elton John serenaded the happy couple with a four song set at a luncheon reception hosted by the Queen. Read more here\nGreta Van Fleet shared some big news with Loudwire while at the Rock On The Range festival this past weekend. Jake Kiszka had this to say about their upcoming debut album, "We're in the mixing process, so it's going to be quite soon. We're wrapping it up, so we're hoping to release that in late summer. Absolutely, this year." Read more here.\nChickenfoot made their first performance together in over two years during the fifth annual "Acoustic-4-A-Cure" benefit concert last week at the Fillmore in San Francisco. The supergroup featuring Sammy Hagar, his former Van Halen bandmate Michael Anthony, Joe Satriani and Red Hot Chili Peppers' Chad Smith, took the stage during the charity event. Watch videos from the jam here\nNine Inch Nails are the first act to be announced for the upcoming Louder Than Life fest at Champions Park in Louisville, Kentucky over the Sept. 28, 29 and 30 weekend. Trent and co will be headlining with more acts to be announced.\nFlotsam And Jetsam have released an official lyric video for "Monkey Wrench". The song comes from the group's self-titled album. Watch the new clip here\nAn Evening Of Music & Conversation with Halestorm will be taking place on May 31st at 7 PM, at Sony Hall, in New York City. The announcement reads in part, "Join us for a unique opportunity to be part of the studio audience at this intimate conversation with Grammy Award-winning rockers Halestorm! We'll sit down with lead vocalist and guitarist Lzzy Hale, her brother drummer and percussionist Arejay Hale, guitarist Joe Hottinger, and bassist Josh Smith to talk about their current tour, new projects, stories from the road, and much more. Featuring a long-form interview, opportunity for audience questions and a short exclusive performance." More details here\nThe New Roses full set from their recent live broadcast for the German television show Rockpalast (Rock Palace) had been posted online. Watch it here - here.}}
{{The Latest on global migration and World Refugee Day (all times local):\n7 p.m.\nEuropean governments are reportedly planning tougher checks at train and bus stations as part of efforts to stop asylum-seekers from traveling freely across the continent's open borders.\nGerman media reported Wednesday that the proposal is part of a draft agreement being circulated ahead of a meeting of leaders from 10 European countries in Brussels on Sunday.\nDaily Suedeutsche Zeitung reported the draft also foresees penalties for asylum-seekers who don't stay in the first European Union countries they registered in.\nBusiness newspaper Handelsblatt said the draft proposed a significant expansion of the EU's border control force Frontex and the creation of an asylum processing agency for the entire bloc.\nGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel wants an EU-wide agreement on how to deal with migrants to avoid the chaos seen during the 2015 influx.\n___\n6:45 p.m.\nItaly's anti-migrant interior minister says after meeting with right-wing Austrian officials that changing political winds in Europe could bring significant changes to the way Europe controls its exterior borders.\nThe meeting in Rome on Wednesday between the populist officials underlined a new hard-line axis forming in Europe on migration issues. Salvini said it was "a historic moment because Europe has never had the possibility to change like in these days." He added: "we think it can change for the better on the topics of immigration, security and the fight against terrorism. Finally there is a decision to protect the exterior border.!\nThe neighboring countries signaled their common approach to reinforcing the exterior border, but deferred specifics to Austria's EU presidency and other forums.\n___\n4:20 p.m.\nThe Trump administration says that "new actors" must step up to help in the global response to refugees.\nU.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo says the United States will "will continue to be a world leader in providing humanitarian assistance" for displaced people. But he says the U.S. provides more aid currently to refugees than any other single country.\nHe said in a statement on World Refugee Day that governments, global financial institutions and the private sector must "come to the table" to help in a time when "global displacement has reached record levels." He touted U.S. efforts in Syria, Myanmar and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\nPompeo said Wednesday that the U.S. will continue letting in the world's most vulnerable refugees "while upholding the safety and security of the American people."\n___\n4:10 p.m.\nGermany has responded to the current debate about U.S. immigration policy by pointing to the importance of respecting people's dignity.\nAsked Wednesday about reports of American officials separating migrant children from their parents, government spokesman Steffen Seibert said "in our opinion two things always belong together in migration policy: respecting the law, and respecting the dignity of every single human being."\nSeibert rejected comparisons drawn by some U.S. critics between the policy and those of Nazi Germany. He told reporters: "Before anyone speaks of concentration camps they should recall what concentration camps in German history were; what unspeakable, criminal regime used them and what enormous suffering it caused to millions of people."\nInterior ministry spokeswoman Eleonore Petermann said she was unaware of any cases of migrant family separation in Germany.\n___\n4 p.m.\nMovie star Angelina Jolie is speaking out against the "parody of strength involved in tough talk against refugees" on World Refugee Day.\nJolie, a special envoy for the U.N. refugee agency, writes in The Economist on Wednesday that countries "adopting harsh unilateral measures that target refugees" will only inflame the crisis.\nThe U.N. refugee agency says nearly 69 million people fleeing war, violence and persecution were forcibly displaced last year, a record for the fifth straight year.\nJolie says less than 1 percent of all refugees are resettled and that some of the world's poorest countries bear the burden of hosting the displaced people.\nShe writes that the world must find ways to prevent the conflicts in places like Syria, Myanmar and Somalia that drive millions from their homes.\n___\n3:45 p.m.\nHungary has approved a constitutional amendment making it more difficult for refugees to gain asylum in Hungary and passed legislation which threatens people helping asylum-seekers with up to a year in prison.\nThe amendment of the constitution also includes a ban on homelessness, creates new courts to handle public administration cases and says the state must defend Hungary's Christian culture.\nThe amendment was approved 159-5, with lawmakers from Prime Minister Viktor Orban's Fidesz party and a small ally joined by the nationalist Jobbik party.\nParliament also passed the so-called "Stop Soros" law, which says people aiding refugees and asylum-seekers can be imprisoned for up to a year. Orban blames financier George Soros for fomenting mass migration into Europe, charges he denies.\n___\n3:20 p.m.\nMore than 100 Rohingya Muslims in the Kutupalong refugee camp outside of Cox's Bazaar, Bangladesh, have marched to highlight their suffering, demanding that international organizations hold the Myanmar government accountable for the attacks that drove them into exile.\nMany wore T-shirts and paper hats proclaiming that they are "Not Bangali." In Myanmar, the Rohingya are often derided as illegal migrants from Bangladesh.\nAbdu Shukkur, a 44-year-old refugee, denounced the Myanmar government for refusing to recognize the Rohingya as an ethnic minority and for denying them "the right to citizenship and its privileges."\nSome 700,000 Rohingya fled brutal attacks last year by government forces and mobs in Myanmar, pouring across the border into crowded, makeshift refugee camps in Bangladesh.\nMonsoon rains have begun sweeping through the camps, often leaving the refugees to wade through rivers of mud and water.\n___\n2:35 p.m.\nGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel says that the number of refugees worldwide is "simply unthinkable" and that people fleeing is "a central global question of our time."\nThe U.N. refugee agency reported Tuesday that nearly 69 million people fleeing war, violence and persecution were forcibly displaced last year, a record for the fifth straight year.\nMerkel said Wednesday in Berlin that Germany stands by both its obligation to protect people fleeing war and terrorism and its commitment to keeping Europe together. The European Union has been deeply divided over how to respond to migration, and the chancellor herself faces calls from within her government to turn back some migrants unilaterally at the border.\nMerkel said: "However you cut it, migration is a European challenge — perhaps our greatest challenge at the moment."\n___\n2:25 p.m.\nA boat carrying nine migrants, including a minor, overturned while attempting to cross the Drina river from Serbia into Bosnia. Police said no one was injured in the accident early Wednesday near the eastern Bosnian town of Zvornik.\nMigrants trying to reach Western Europe have recently started passing through Bosnia to avoid other, more heavily guarded routes through the Balkans.\nAuthorities in the war-ravaged country have struggled with the influx of more than 5,000 people this year from the Middle East, Africa and Asia. Migrants come into Bosnia from Serbia or Montenegro.\nIn Serbia, the government's refugee agency says that nearly 3,000 migrants from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran, Iraq and Syria are currently staying in the country's asylum centers. The report says one quarter of them are children.\n___\n1:45 p.m.\nAustrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, whose country will soon take over the European Union's rotating presidency, says he hopes a weekend mini-summit will address an "overdue" solution to the continent's issues with migration.\nOfficials say Germany, France, Italy and Greece, among others, will attend Sunday's gathering in Brussels to look into finding European solutions to political clashes over migration. The issue is particularly pressing for German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who faces pressure in her own governing coalition to take a tougher line.\nKurz, whose country takes over the EU presidency July 1, said Wednesday that the gathering "is not about German domestic politics, it's about a solution of the migration question that is long overdue."\nKurz said it will address questions such as "how we protect the (EU) external borders, how do we prevent waving (migrants) through to central Europe."\n___\n1:30 p.m.\nPope Francis is urging people not to "let fear get in the way of welcoming our neighbor in need."\nThe pope said in a Twitter message tagged with the hashtag "WithRefugees" that "we encounter Jesus in those who are poor, rejected and refugees."\nWednesday's message on World Refugee Day comes as the Trump administration has faced criticism for separating children of parents seeking asylum in the United States at the border, and as the new Italian government has taken a hard-line stand on migrants.\nItaly has refused to allow an NGO-run ship with some 630 migrants rescued at sea to make landfall in Italy. They have since been welcomed by Spain.\n___\n1:15 p.m.\nChristian and Muslim religious leaders in Cyprus have for the first time issued a joint call for acceptance and support of refugees arriving to the small, ethnically divided island nation.\nIn a video message issued for World Refugee Day, the religious leaders called on individuals to welcome refugees who are forced to flee their homelands and urged authorities to work to end their plight.\nThe message includes brief statements form the leaders of Cyprus' Greek Orthodox, Latin, Armenian and Maronite churches and the Mufti who heads the island's Muslim community.\nAlthough Cyprus hasn't seen the huge influx of migrants arriving from neighboring Syria, the United Nations refugee agency says the island has just over 1,300 registered refugees, nearly 8,000 individuals who have been granted subsidiary protection and another 5,400 people seeking asylum.\n___\n12:20 p.m.\nGermany, France and other key European nations hit by the migration crisis will hold an informal mini summit on Sunday.\nThe European Commission announced Wednesday that several government leaders will be gathering in Brussels to look into "finding European solutions" to solve the political crisis that has pitted many EU nations against one another.\nOfficials said Germany, France, Italy and Greece would attend. The officials declined to be identified because the mini summit is still in its planning stage.\nA full summit of the bloc's 28 government leaders that will focus on migration is set for June 28-29.\n___\n12 noon\nItalian President Sergio Mattarella says it is up to a united European Union to manage the arrival of refugees forced to flee their homelands.\nIn a message for World Refugee Day Wednesday, Mattarella said "the international community must work with shared and long-term political choices to manage a phenomenon that involves the entire world. The European Union in particular must know how to intervene, without delegating to the countries of first-arrival the responsibility to confront the emergency."\nThe comments come as Italy's new hard-line interior minister, Matteo Salvini, presses Europe to relieve Italy of the burden of arrivals, making his point by refusing port to an aid agency's rescue boat with some 630 migrants onboard.\nSalvini is meeting later with the Italian premier to discuss Italy's position on the migrant issue at an upcoming EU summit. The leader of the anti-migrant League has long argued the majority of those rescued at sea are economic migrants, not refugees.\n___\n11 a.m.\nAsylum claims rose sharply in the United States last year but migration declined overall in the developed world for the first time since 2011, according to a new report from an economic organization representing the world's wealthiest countries.\nAsylum claims rose 26 percent in the United States, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said Wednesday, adding that migration for economic and political reasons is unlikely to diminish in coming years. The group said countries need to find ways to prepare their native-born populations and integrate new foreign residents.\nThe report found a growing share of the population in the OECD's 35 member countries, including the United States and Western Europe, was born abroad — up from 9 percent in 2000 to 13 percent in 2017.}}
{{Canada PM Trudeau to mount charm offensive in China: officials\nCanadian Prime Minister will tour the Great Wall, shoot hoops with retired basketball star Yao Ming and host a roundtable of women entrepreneurs when he travels to China next week to bolster trade and diplomatic ties, his office said Friday.\nThere will be bilateral meetings with Chinese President Xi Jinping and senior government officials during the August 30 to September 6 trip, which includes stops in Beijing, Shanghai and Hong Kong.\nTrudeau also will travel to Hangzhou for the summit of leaders of the Group of 20 economic powers on September 4 and 5.\nCanadian PM Justin Trudeau, pictured on October 20, 2015, will travel to Hangzhou for the summit of leaders of the Group of 20 economic powers on September 4 and 5 ©Nicholas Kamm (AFP/File)\nBut average Chinese citizens can also expect to see the playful political leader pose for selfies with locals, and reach out to them directly through social media -- as he has done everywhere he has gone since being elected to Canada's highest office last year.\n"The prime minister has a WeChat and Weibo account and we will be using these during the trip," a senior government official said.\nThe trip is being made at the invitation of Premier Li Keqiang, but comes amid a handful of trade irritants and other stresses in the relationship.\nThese include Chinese plans to impose new rules on canola imports to protect against crop disease that risks Can$2 billion worth of annual Canadian oilseed sales to China.\nCanadian Trade Minister Chrystia Freeland, who will be accompanying Trudeau, said this week that the bilateral relationship could not improve until the matter is resolved.\nThe detention of Canadian citizen Kevin Garratt in 2014 on espionage charges also looms over the visit. He had run a Christian-themed coffee shop near the North Korean border.\n"This trip is an important moment in Canada-China relations. We've had an ad hoc relationship until now... (and) this is really about creating a longterm, more stable relationship," a senior government official said at a news briefing.\n"Canada's future prosperity is increasingly tied to China," the official said. "To grow its economy... it's imperative that Canada renew its relationship with China."\nTrudeau will also seek cooperation with China on climate change and other global issues, press for increased tourism from China, and in a speech to Chinese business leaders call for investment in Canada.}}
{{ROME—Italy’s Interior Minister Matteo Salvini said Wednesday he wasn’t willing to take migrants who have been registered in Italy back from Germany, a stance which would clash with the plans of his German peer.\nAsked whether he was willing to help Germany’s Interior Minister Horst Seehofer in his pledge to send back migrants present on German soil, who have entered the European Union from other countries, he said that “the Italian government is willing to help only Italians.”\n...}}
{{* May nonfarm payrolls rise by 8,500 * Results contrast with 95,000 gain shown in main jobs report * Both reports show job growth slowing * Payrolls report might be better guide but is released late OTTAWA, July 25 (Reuters) - There's a huge discrepancy in two sets of government figures on growth in Canada's labor market in May, but both point to a slower pace of hiring that could signal bumps on the economic road ahead. Statistics Canada said on Thursday that nonfarm payrolls were up 8,500 in May. That is less than one tenth the number of jobs that the agency's Labour Market Survey, released in early June, said were created in the same month. Statscan analyst Emmanuelle Bourbeau said there are many differences in the way the two reports measure the jobs market, but there is at least one similarity in the results: "Employment growth is slowing down in both surveys," she said. The Labour Force Survey, Canada's most timely employment report, showed a gain of 95,000 jobs in May, a huge figure that shocked markets. The increase would be roughly equivalent to the creation of 850,000 jobs in the far bigger U.S. market. But the June survey, released on July 5, showed Canada shed 400 jobs. Canada's economy has long recovered from the 2008-09 recession but the unemployment rate remains about a percentage point higher than it was before the crisis. Bourbeau noted that the Labour Force Survey reflects the moment that people are hired, while the payrolls number focuses on when they actually get on a payroll, often a few weeks later. The frequently revised payrolls census also excludes the self-employed, religious organizations and private household services, while the labor force survey excludes residents of native reserves and institutions, and much of northern Canada. BMO Capital Markets senior economist Sal Guatieri noted that a big gap can open up between the two surveys. The survey released on Thursday is likely more reliable, but because it comes out six weeks later, people pay much less attention to it. "We always thought the establishment survey is a better guide to job growth because it measures who's actually being paid," he said. "Bottom line is job growth has slowed, but it will probably pick up very slightly going forward." Year on year in May, the payrolls survey showed employment grew 0.8 percent, while the Labour Force Survey showed a 1.4 percent gain. This is down from December readings of 1.6 percent and 1.8 percent respectively. Excluding the self-employed from the Labour Force Survey yields these results, which also point to slower jobs growth: Average monthly Average monthly job gain May job gain Nov 2012-Nov 2012 2012-May 2013 Labour Force Survey 24,900 10,900 Survey of Employment, 16,800 2,800 Payrolls and Hours}}
{{By HILLEL ITALIE\nAssociated Press\nRock n' roll was more than a new kind of music, but a new story to tell, one for kids with transistor radios in their hands and money in their pockets, beginning to raise questions their parents never had the luxury to ask.\nAlong with James Dean and J.D. Salinger and a handful of others in the 1950s, Chuck Berry, who was 90 when he died Saturday at his suburban St. Louis home, helped define the modern teenager. While Elvis Presley gave rock n' roll its libidinous, hip-shaking image, Berry was the auteur, setting the narrative for a generation no longer weighed down by hardship or war. Well before the rise of Bob Dylan, Berry wedded social commentary to the beat and rush of popular music.\n"He was singing good lyrics, and intelligent lyrics, in the '50s when other people were singing, 'Oh, baby, I love you so,'" John Lennon once observed.\n"Classic rock" begins with Chuck Berry. His core repertoire was some three dozen songs, but his influence was incalculable, from the Beatles and Rolling Stones to virtually every garage band or arena act that called itself rock 'n roll.\nIn his late 20s before his first major hit, Berry crafted lyrics that spoke to young people of the day and remained fresh decades later. "Sweet Little Sixteen" captured rock 'n' roll fandom, an early and innocent ode to the young girls later known as "groupies." ''School Day" told of the sing-song trials of the classroom ("American history and practical math; you're studying hard, hoping to pass ...") and the liberation of rock 'n' roll once the day's final bell rang.\n"Roll Over Beethoven" was an anthem to rock's history-making power, while "Rock and Roll Music" was a guidebook for all bands that followed ("It's got a back beat, you can't lose it"). "Back in the U.S.A." was a black man's straight-faced tribute to his country, at a time there was no guarantee Berry would be served at the drive-ins and corner cafes he was celebrating.\n"Everything I wrote about wasn't about me, but about the people listening," he once said.\n"Johnny B. Goode," the tale of a guitar-playing country boy whose mother tells him he'll be a star, was Berry's signature song, the archetypal narrative for would-be rockers and among the most ecstatic recordings in the music's history. Berry can hardly contain himself as the words hurry out ("Deep down Louisiana close to New Orleans/Way back up in the woods among the evergreens") and the downpour of guitar, drums and keyboards amplifies every call of "Go, Johnny Go!"\nThe song was inspired in part by Johnnie Johnson, the boogie-woogie piano man who collaborated on many Berry hits, but the story could have easily been Berry's, Presley's or countless others'. Commercial calculation made the song universal: Berry had meant to call Johnny a "colored boy," but changed "colored" to "country," enabling not only radio play, but musicians of any color to imagine themselves as stars.\n"Chances are you have talent," Berry later wrote of the song. "But will the name and the light come to you? No! You have to go!"\nJohnny B. Goode could only have been a guitarist. The guitar was rock 'n' roll's signature instrument and Berry the first guitar hero. His clarion sound, a melting pot of country flash and rhythm 'n blues drive, turned on at least a generation of musicians, among them the Stones' Keith Richards, who once acknowledged he had "lifted every lick" from Berry; the Beatles' George Harrison; Bruce Springsteen; and the Who's Pete Townshend.\nWhen NASA launched the unmanned Voyager I in 1977, an album was stored on the craft that would explain music on Earth to extraterrestrials. The one rock song included was "Johnny B. Goode."\nCountry, pop and rock artists have recorded Berry songs, including the Beatles ("Roll Over Beethoven"), Emmylou Harris ("You Never Can Tell"), Buck Owens ("Johnny B. Goode") and AC/DC ("School Days"). The Rolling Stones' first single was a cover of Berry's "Come On" and they went on to perform and record "Around and Around," ''Let it Rock" and others. Berry riffs pop up in countless songs, from the Stones' ravenous "Brown Sugar" to the Eagles' mellow country-rock ballad "Peaceful Easy Feeling."\nSome stars covered him too well. The Beach Boys borrowed the melody of "Sweet Little Sixteen" for their surf anthem "Surfin' U.S.A." without initially crediting Berry. The Beatles' "Come Together," written by Lennon, was close enough to Berry's "You Can't Catch Me" to inspire a lawsuit by music publisher Morris Levy. In an out of court settlement, Lennon agreed to record "You Can't Catch Me" for his 1975 "Rock n' Roll" album.\nBerry himself was accused of theft. In 2000, Johnson sued Berry over royalties and credit he believed he was due for the songs they composed together over more than 20 years of collaboration. The lawsuit was dismissed two years later, but Richards was among those who believed Johnson had been cheated, writing in his memoir "Life" that Johnson set up the arrangements for Berry and was so essential to the music that many of Berry's songs were recorded in keys more suited for the piano.\nHe received a Grammy for lifetime achievement in 1984 and two years later became a charter member of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, along with Presley, Buddy Holly, Little Richard and others. In the 1990s, Berry began giving monthly concerts in the intimate setting of the "Duck Room" of the Blueberry Hill club in St. Louis, drawing visitors from around the world. At times he was joined by his son, guitarist Charles Berry Jr., and daughter, Ingrid Berry Clay, on vocals and harmonica. He married their mother, Themetta Suggs, in 1948. They had four children.\nCharles Edward Anderson Berry was born in St. Louis on Oct. 18, 1926. As a child he practiced a bent-leg stride that enabled him to slip under tables, a prelude to the trademark "duck walk" of his adult years. His mother, like Johnny B. Goode's, told him he would make it, and make it big.\nBerry studied the mechanics of music and how it was transmitted. As a teenager, he loved to take radios apart and put them back together. Using a Nick Manoloff guitar chord book, he learned how to play the hits of the time. He was fascinated by chord progressions and rhythms, discovering that many songs borrowed heavily from the Gershwins' "I Got Rhythm."\nHe began his musical career at age 15 when he went on stage at a high school review to perform a cover of Jay McShann's "Confessin' the Blues." Berry would never forget the ovation he received.\n"Long did the encouragement of that performance assist me in programming my songs and even their delivery while performing," he wrote in "Chuck Berry," a memoir published in 1986. "I added and deleted according to the audiences' response to different gestures, and chose songs to build an act that would constantly stimulate my audience."\nInfluenced by bandleader Louis Jordan and blues guitarist T-Bone Walker among others, hip to country music, novelty songs and the emerging teen audiences of the post-World War II era, Berry signed with Chicago's Chess Records in 1955 after hooking up with Johnson three years earlier. "Maybellene" reworked the country song "Ida Red" and rose into the top 10 of the national pop charts, a rare achievement for a black artist at that time. According to Berry, label owner Leonard Chess was taken by the novelty of a "hillbilly song sung by a black man," an inversion of Presley's covers of blues songs.\nSeveral hits followed, including "Roll Over Beethoven," ''School Day" and "Sweet Little Sixteen." Among his other songs: "Memphis," ''Nadine," ''Let it Rock," ''Almost Grown" and the racy novelty number "My Ding-A-Ling," which topped the charts in 1972, his only No. 1 single.\nBerry didn't care for hard drugs and spoke of drinking screwdrivers "without the driver." But he knew too well the outlaw life.\nHis troubles began in 1944, when a joy riding trip to Kansas City turned into a crime spree involving armed robberies and car theft. Berry served three years of a 10-year sentence at a reformatory.\nIn the early 1960s, his career was nearly destroyed when he was indicted for violating the Mann Act, which barred transportation of a minor across state lines for "immoral purposes." There were two trials: the first so racist that a guilty verdict was vacated, and the second leading to prison time, 1 1/2 years of a three-year term. Berry continued to record after getting out, and his legacy was duly honored by the Beatles and the Stones, but his hit-making days were essentially over.\n"Down from stardom/then I fell/to this lowly prison cell," Berry wrote in his journal as his jail time began.\nTax charges came in 1979, based on Berry's insistence he receive concert fees in cash, and another three-year prison sentence, all but 120 days of which was suspended. Some former female employees sued him for allegedly videotaping them in the bathroom of his restaurant. The cases were settled in 1994, after Berry paid $1.3 million.\nOpenly money-minded, Berry was an entrepreneur with a St. Louis nightclub and, west of the city, property he dubbed Berry Park, which included a home, guitar-shaped swimming pool, restaurant, cottages and concert venue. He declined to have a regular band and instead used local musicians, willing to work cheap, wherever he performed. Springsteen was among those who had an early gig backing Berry.\nBerry and his duck walk were seen in several teen exploitation flicks of the '50s. In the 1980s, Richards organized the well-received documentary "Hail! Hail! Rock 'n' Roll," featuring highlights from concerts at St. Louis' Fox Theatre to celebrate Berry's 60th birthday that included Eric Clapton, Little Richard and Jerry Lee Lewis, who recalled being told by his own mother that Berry, not he, was the true king of rock 'n' roll.\nBurned by an industry that demanded a share of his songwriting credits, Berry was deeply suspicious of even his admirers, as anybody could tell from watching him give Richards the business in "Hail! Hail! Rock 'n' Roll." For the movie's concerts, he confounded Richards by playing songs in different keys and tempos than they had been in rehearsal. Richards would recall turning to his fellow musicians and shrugging, "Wing it, boys."\nBerry also was the subject of countless essays and histories of rock music, but he was his own best biographer. In "Go, Go, Go," one of many songs to feature Johnny B. Goode, he celebrates his magic on stage, an act irresistible to young and old, boy and girl, dog and cat.\nDuckwalkin' on his knees, peckin' like a hen\nLookin' like a locomotive, here he comes again\nMeow said the kitty, puppy bow, wow, wow\nGo and pick your guitar, Johnny don't stop now,\noh baby\n___\nCopyright 2017 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.}}
{{House Speaker Paul Ryan announced Wednesday that the House will vote Thursday on legislation to keep families together, trumpeting President Donald Trump’s pledged support for two measures that have yet to generate sufficient backing to pass.\nInterested in Immigration? Add Immigration as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Immigration news, video, and analysis from ABC News. Add Interest\nBut with votes lacking, President Trump has summoned several undecided Republicans to the White House, as well as the top three House GOP leaders. A House Republican leadership aide says Majority Whip Steve Scalise provided the White House with a list of undecided members whom Trump "personally needs to work" on the "Goodlatte 2.0" bill, the so-called "compromise" proposal.\nThe president has also dispatched Attorney General Jeff Sessions to the Capitol to urge Republicans to support the immigration proposals, and DHS Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen is scheduled to huddle with Republicans to answer questions and rally support for the bills.\nBrendan McDermid/Reuters\nThe moves come after the president announced Wednesday that he would sign an executive order to "keep families together."\n"I’ll be doing something that’s somewhat preemptive and ultimately will be matched by legislation I’m sure,” Trump said.\nThe speaker stressed Republicans “do not want children taken away from their parents” but he did not commit to holding a vote on stand-alone legislation to end family separation. He called the current strategy “Plan B” – dodging a reporter who asked what would happen if the votes fail.\n“Right now we're focused on getting this bill passed,” Ryan insisted. “The president came to our conference yesterday and asked members to support this bill. That is our focus. If other things happen we'll cross those bridges with when we get to it.”\nRyan declined to say whether the president would commit to an immediate moratorium on family separation, but hinted that the administration is exploring “interim measures.”\n“I will refer you to Kirstjen Nielsen, the [DHS] secretary,” Ryan said. “She's talked to us about interim measures but the court case is the key thing for us. You have to change the law so we can make sure that custody stays with DHS. We think that's important and that's why we're voting tomorrow.”\n“We're saying stick with [the Department of Homeland Security] and we're going to finance facilities for families to make sure that they can be taken care of so we don't have to have this ridiculous choice between enforcing our borders and enforcing the law and keeping families together,” Ryan, R-Wis., said. “We think it's a false choice.”\nWhile Ryan says he is “hopeful” the votes will pass, the reality is that House Republicans still have a lot of work ahead to build sufficient support to send the bill to the Senate without any Democratic support.\nA Republican leadership source tells ABC News they “still have work to do” and “need the president to keep leaning in with his support of the compromise bill in order for it to have a chance at passage.”\nAfter the GOP leadership team’s news conference, Majority Whip Steve Scalise clarified to ABC News that the House will vote on two alternative measures, the Goodlatte bill and the so-called compromise bill – both of which include policy to end family separation, boost funding for detention centers, solve the DACA problem and fund the border wall.\n“The president says we need this approved, so he really likes this policy and we worked with him on making sure that we can change that court decision so kids can be reunited with their families,” Scalise, R-La., said.\nIt’s the Democrats fault, they won’t give us the votes needed to pass good immigration legislation. They want open borders, which breeds horrible crime. Republicans want security. But I am working on something - it never ends! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 20, 2018\nThe votes are expected Thursday afternoon, according to House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy.\nHouse Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte's bill, the Securing America’s Future Act, provides a pathway to legal status for Dreamers while limiting legal immigration levels. Considered the more conservative of the two bills, it isn't expected to pass the House with Republican votes given Democrats' opposition, as well as concerns from some moderates.\nLeadership, after facilitating talks with GOP conservatives and moderates, has pushed alternate legislation that would offer a compromise to moderates who threatened to force a vote on legal status for recipients of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) executive action under President Barack Obama. This measure would provide $25 billion in border wall funding, eliminate several visa programs while restructuring others, and provide a pathway for six-year "indefinitely renewable" legal status for Dreamers who could later apply for citizenship. It is also expected to include a provision to prevent the government from separating young children from parents and guardians while in government custody.\nThe bill would require the Department of Homeland Security to house families together while parents go through criminal proceedings for the misdemeanor of first-time illegal border crossing - a change from current practice requiring the Department of Justice to take criminal custody during criminal proceedings, thus leading to family separation.\nThe proposal would also eliminate the 20-day cap on DHS administrative custody for accompanied children, so families would be kept together in the custody of DHS throughout criminal proceedings. It also authorizes up to $7 billion for family residential centers, ensuring DHS has access to funds to house more families.\nIn the cases of repeat offenders or other serious criminals, children would be placed in the care and custody of the Department of Health and Human Services.}}
{{BOSTON (CBS) – Several hundred people came to the State House Wednesday afternoon to protest the Trump Administration’s “zero tolerance” immigration policy that is separating families at the border with Mexico.\nThe ACLU and other organizations want state legislators to pass what they call “basic protections for immigrants in Massachusetts.”\nFollow: WBZ’s Beth Germano for live updates at the State House\nThe group eventually formed a line and marched inside the State House to speak with the governor.\nAs the rally began, President Donald Trump said he will sign an executive order ending family separation at the U.S.-Mexico border.}}
{{Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) recognizes the resounding power black artists have had over the years and she’s paying tribute to them with a special music playlist she curated herself.\nIn honor of African-American Music Appreciation Month, which is recognized in June, Harris released a public playlist on the music-streaming service Spotify that includes some of the most talented and influential black musicians.\n“Our nation has an indelible soundtrack, songs that have become anthems recognized across the world,” Harris said in a statement to HuffPost. “Much of that soundtrack is inspired and informed by the vast contributions of African-American artists in jazz, R&B, rap, hip-hop, and beyond.”\nThe playlist features 45 songs from timeless artists like Lauryn Hill, Stevie Wonder, Nina Simone and Prince, as well as hits from more contemporary artists like Andra Day, Janelle Monae and Chance The Rapper. There are popular rap songs by hip-hop artists like Migos and soulful slow jams from songstresses like Aretha Franklin ― whatever the mood, Harris’ playlist has you covered.\n“No matter where you are from or what you look like, music is a bond that can bring us all together,” she said. “To celebrate African-American music is to dance, sing, and even march to the rhythms that have long served as vehicles for honesty, inspiration, struggle, success and joy.”}}
{{Previously, the White House has been harshly criticized because its zero-tolerance policy has led to thousands of children being separated from their families at the border.\nUS President Donald Trump announced on Wednesday that he would sign "something pre-emptive" in order to put an end to the separation of immigrant families at the southern borders of the country.\n"We're going to be signing an executive order in a little while…We've got to be keeping families together," Trump said as quoted by a pool reporter. "So I'm going to be signing an executive order in a little while before I go to Minnesota but, at the same time, I think you have to understand, we're keeping families together but we have to keep our borders strong. We will be overrun with crime and with people that should not be in our country."\nThe president added that the administration is "going to count on Congress" to address the issue.\nREAD MORE: US Watchdog Denied Access to Migrant Camp Near US-Mexico Border\n© AP Photo / Wilfredo Lee Trump Points to 'German Example' as Zero Tolerance Rift Grows\nEarlier in the day, Trump said on his Twitter account that the migration laws in the US are "the weakest and worst anywhere in the world." These words followed earlier statements by the US president on the migration issue, having previously tweeted "If you don’t have Borders, you don’t have a Country."\nThe alleged executive order could conclude a long struggle between the president and the opposition, which started last May when US Attorney General Jeff Sessions said that the Trump administration would adopt a zero-tolerance policy towards illegal migrants.\nREAD MORE: Trump's Approval Rating Hits Record High — Poll\nThe policy includes measures such as taking children away from parents that had been detained by the authorities. According to the US Department of Homeland Security, up to 2,000 immigrant children were separated from their parents between April 19 and May 31, leading to protests across the country. In response, Republican lawmakers have expressed the desire to allow parents and their children to stay together.}}
{{White House proposes rule to welcome immigrant entrepreneurs\nBy Timothy Gardner\nWASHINGTON, Aug 26 (Reuters) - The Obama administration proposed a rule on Friday aimed at attracting thousands of immigrant entrepreneurs to start companies in the United States.\nThe rule, proposed by the Department of Homeland Security, would ease the ability of startup founders to build companies if they have significant funding from U.S. investors.\nThe administration hopes the rule will be completed before President Barack Obama's term ends on Jan. 20.\nThe proposed rule is part of Obama's commitment to "attracting the world's best and brightest entrepreneurs to start the next great companies here," Tom Kalil, a technology policy adviser at the White House, told reporters in a call.\nKalil said immigrants have co-founded as many as one in four high-tech startups across the United States and more than half of all startups in Silicon Valley.\nImmigration has been a crucial issue in the 2016 presidential campaign ahead of the Nov. 8 election. Republican candidate Donald Trump has vowed to toughen immigration policies, while Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton has proposed creating an office of immigrant affairs to expand Obama's efforts to help immigrants integrate better into the country.\nUnder the rule, DHS would issue temporary permission for entrepreneurs to live in the United States if they have at least 15 percent ownership in startup companies formed in the country within the past three years. The companies must have investment of at least $345,000 from qualified U.S. investors. The administration expects about 3,000 immigrants would apply for the temporary permission, known as parole.\nMax Levchin, a co-founder of PayPal and other companies who was born in Ukraine, said the proposed rule is a "great, concrete step toward creating more jobs in America and more success stories."\nMany entrepreneurs are educated at prestigious U.S. universities, but find themselves unable to stay in the country because they lose visa lotteries or can't afford to sponsor themselves through an existing investor visa program.}}
{{Christopher Swain has been swimming up and down the East Coast for causes like clean water and human rights since 1996, and on Tuesday, he’s taking a dip in New York Harbor to raise awareness for World Refugee Day.\nThe United Nations General Assembly created World Refugee Day in 2000, and it has been observed on June 20 since 2001. This year seems more poignant than ever with more than 65 million people displaced around the world, creating the biggest refugee crisis since World War II, and President Donald Trump trying to ban travelers from mostly Muslim countries and refugees from entering the U.S.\nBecause of that, Swain, a member of the U.N. Association of the USA, will swim the two miles from the Statue of Liberty to Battery Park in the Financial District Tuesday afternoon. (Just last week, he swam 133 miles, the entire length of Long Island Sound and the East River, to call for a halt to sewage dumping in New York waterways.)\n“As someone who is descended, in part, from Irish refugees who fled Ireland during the great famine of the mid-1900s, I feel a kinship with people who are leaving their homelands, through no choice of their own, in search of safety and security,” Swain told told Metro in an interview.\nMetro: Compared to some of your other swims, this one is fairly short, but does that make it any less dangerous?\nChristopher Swain: Swimming in New York Harbor is always tricky. As a swimmer you have to manage the demands of tides, current, wakes from passing boats and ships, recreational and commercial traffic, not to mention sewage bills and floating trash.\nWhat sort of prep goes into a swim like this?\nThe notifications to the different agencies because I'm going to be swimming in the harbor are probably the most byzantine and confusing part of the whole thing. The fun part is being able to use the swim platform to reflect in some small way the arduous journeys over land and sea that refugees are taking every day.\nWhat do you hope is the takeaway of Tuesday’s swim for World Refugee Day?\nNo one chooses to be a refugee. Everyone deserves safety, security and a place to call home. We need to remember our history: We are a nation composed of people who left difficult situations in search of something better. We shouldn't hide from our history by closing the door on others who are doing the same thing.\nAfter this World Refugee Day swim, what is next for you?\nI will look for ways to extend and expand my partnership with United Nations. I believe everyone on the planet has the same rights and the same dignity and deserves the same freedoms. Anything else is a recipe for conflict and division.}}
{{After sharing a trailer just a few days ago, the final installment of Halsey’s music video saga is here. And we’re living for it.\nLuna (Halsey) and Rosa (Lauren Jauregui) go from “Strangers” fighting each other in a boxing match to lovers. This film, although the last of the series, returns to the beginning to explain how the story came to be.\nImagery of Halsey robbed in red and Lauren in white evokes a vibe of good vs evil. It also highlights the inspiration from Romeo and Juliet, making it a Montagues vs Capulets-esque story.\nThe full music video saga weaves viewers though a post-apocalyptic world. Dystopian scenes range all the way from heavy symbolism in “Now Or Never” to a much simpler, more feel-good video for “Closer.”}}
{{Vancouver’s mayor has issued a statement in response to concerns about needles found at Andy Livingstone Park, calling on all levels of government to help keep public spaces clean.\nMetro reported on the park board’s increased clean up efforts last Thursday, which include a permanent park ranger station at Andy Livingston and daily patrols from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m.\nMayor Gregor Robertson emphasized those efforts Tuesday in a written statement:\n“The City, Park Board, Vancouver Coastal Health and Vancouver School Board are ramping up efforts to keep Andy Livingstone Park clean and safe for neighbourhood residents and will be reporting to the public regularly on progress of reducing discarded needles. I’m reminding all residents that if you see a discarded needle on the street or in a park, report it immediately to the Needle Van Hotline,” he said.\n“Fourteen months into B.C.’s most serious public health emergency in history, managing discarded needles in public spaces has become a significant challenge. We need partners at all levels of government to work together to keep our public spaces clean and safe.”\nBut some parents and residents in the neighbourhood say more needs to be done because children frequent the park. Crosstown Elementary, by design, does not have its own playground – children spend recess and lunch in Andy Livingston Park.\nSchool staff conduct four sweeps of areas that children play in every day, according to the Vancouver School Board.\nThe park board re-iterated it is doing its best to keep the park safe in a statement, Thursday.\n“We hope our efforts send a message to residents that they’ve been heard and their concerns are important to us. This is a process that requires all of us to work closely and diligently together as we strive for safety in our parks and a great experience for all park users,” said park board chair, Michael Wiebe.}}
{{For homebuyers and homeowners alike, all eyes have been on the housing market in recent months waiting to see where house prices are eventually headed.\nWith house prices already cooling on average across the country, particularly in and around the Greater Toronto Area, some are speculating that the chill in the market could continue well into the second half of the year.\nSigns of a Prolonged Housing Slump?\nThe Canadian Real Estate Association reported that the average sale price in April declined by 11.3 per cent from its peak a year earlier to $495,000, while home sales were 13.9 per cent.\nBMO Chief Economist Doug Porter noted that sales are now down 21.7 per cent in adjusted terms from the record high in December, just before the new mortgage stress test came into effect.\nThe lower home sales have resulted in a drop in listings, a sign that sellers are waiting for prices to pick up again before selling, according to Porter.\n“Notably, the sag in April sales was accompanied by an even bigger pullback in new listings, in a sign that potential sellers are unimpressed with the prices on offer,” he wrote in a recent note.\nMeanwhile, during its second-quarter earnings reporting, CIBC says it expects a drop in mortgage originations in the second half of the year due to the mortgage stress test that came into effect January 1.\n“We expect there to be an origination decline in the 50 per cent range relative to the same period last year,” Canadian retail banking head Christina Kramer said in a statement.\nAverage Cost of Government Housing Policy is $113k, Report Says\n“Restrictive” government housing policies have driven housing costs up an average of $113,000 across Canada.\nThat’s according to a recent C.D. Howe Institute report entitled “Through the Roof: The High Cost of Barriers to Building New Housing in Canadian Municipalities.”\nThe report says barriers to building more single-family housing supply have resulted in homebuyers paying an extra $229,000 per house between 2007 and 2016 in the eight most restrictive cities in Canada. That premium is about $113,000 for a house in the GTA, $113,000 on average across Canada, and a whopping $600,000 for the average house in Vancouver.\n“Recent policies—such as taxes on foreign buyers or new federal mortgage rules—have focused on curtailing the demand for housing, instead of taking meaningful steps to increase the supply,” writes co-author Benjamin Dachis, adding that policies such as zoning rules, restrictions on developing agricultural land, and development charges directly influence both new and existing housing prices.\n“A well-functioning housing market results in the market price of housing being close to the feasible cost of constructing it,” the report says.\nHome Capital secures cheaper credit line from two Canadian banks\nIn other news, Home Capital announced last week that it had replaced its $2-billion emergency funding facility from Berkshire Hathaway Inc. with a $500-million standby line of credit from two unnamed Canadian banks.\nThe alternative mortgage lender confirmed the commitment to its subsidiary Home Trust for the two-year secured line of credit.\nThe terms of the deal stipulate that Home Capital will pay a 0.75-per-cent up-front commitment fee, a 0.6-per-cent annual standby charge on any unused funds and an interest rate on drawn funds equal to the Canadian benchmark rate plus 150 basis points.\nUnder the previous deal with Warren Buffet’s Berkshire Hathaway, which matures in June, Home Capital is paying Berkshire a 1-per-cent standby fee on the $2-billion credit line and would pay 9-per-cent interest were it to draw funds.}}
{{This content was published on June 20, 2018 5:00 PM Jun 20, 2018 - 17:00\nTwo young girls watch a World Cup soccer match on a television from a holding area where hundreds of immigrant children are being processed in the United States.\n(Keystone)\nMany nations, including Switzerland, must grapple with the challenge of migration. The news of controversial recent border-security measures along the US-Mexican border has made headlines not only in North America, but in Europe as well. Almost 2,000 children have been separated from their parents between-mid April and the end of May in what many have denounced as a cruel and immoral approach to deterring unlawful crossings.\nopinion (1) graphic Banner 'Point of view'\nThe US administration has staunchly defended this heavy-handed policy. Attorney General Jeff Sessions even cited chapter 13 of Paul’s letter to the Romans to silence clergy who protest the sharpening of anti-immigration policies. This unusual twist in the raging political debate across the Atlantic inevitably struck a chord in me, a pastor and life-long student of the New Testament.\nI immediately thought of a scene in Eric Till’s 1999 biopic, Bonhoeffer – Agent of Grace. Dietrich Bonhoeffer, German theologian, had been detained in wartime Germany without charges. An investigating judge, Manfred Roeder, opens an interrogation by confronting Bonhoeffer with the same text, Romans 13. For the moment, let’s leave aside the irony that Sessions seems unaware of whose part he has taken in this exchange. Let’s simply note that both Roeder and Sessions seem to believe they’ve landed a telling blow.\nMany of my fellow clergy have been quick to maintain — with some justification — that the words of the Apostle Paul have been taken out of context and that’s not what he meant. Still, I’ll confess my discomfort with these words:\n“Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore he who resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgement” (Romans 13:1–2).\nHenry Sturcke is an American who has been living in Switzerland for more than 30 years. He’s a retired Reformed church pastor and received a doctorate in theology from the University of Zurich for his New Testament dissertation: Encountering the Rest of God: How Jesus Came to Personify the Sabbath. He’s also the author of Fooled into Thinking: Dylan, the Sixties, and the End of the World. (swissinfo.ch)\nThese words are addressed to believers in Rome. Case closed, one might say, were it not that the authority in the city and empire of Rome when he wrote was the very Caesar, Nero, who — according to the consensus of tradition — had Paul executed. So much for “rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad” (verse 3). The emperor might conclude that adhering to an unpopular belief was worth the death penalty. That does not mean he was right. In a similar way, a government in our day might decide to violate human rights and be wrong.\nMy struggle with this text doesn’t end with this uncomfortable knowledge. I’m troubled as well by how this seemingly blanket pre-approval of whatever the emperor decrees as God-ordained corresponds to something else Paul wrote. It sits uneasily alongside the lesson Paul drew from the crucifixion of Jesus, the result of cooperation between the Sanhedrin and Pontius Pilate. The one responsible for divine justice, the other for civil. Paul puzzled over this flagrant miscarriage of justice in “the word of the cross,” 1 Corinthians 1:18. The crucifixion indicated to Paul something in the structure of the cosmos was fundamentally flawed.\nWell-ordered universe?\nThis runs counter to the assumption behind Paul’s words to the Romans, which envision a well-ordered universe in which all flows hierarchically from the top-down, all according to divine will. I’m mystified as to why the same Paul who was so probing in his analysis of the meaning of the crucifixion could write this dire warning against challenging temporal authority. Perhaps he was afraid his correspondence would be read by outsiders and wanted to avoid the suspicion that adherents of this new movement were subversive. Or it might be that he feared that some, in the eager expectation of an imminent end of the world, might shirk their civic responsibilities. But I don’t really know.\nWhat I do know is that one can’t read Romans 13 without an awareness that it reflects a worldview that is no longer ours. I no longer believe in a great chain of being that leads like steps of a ladder to the highest good. Paul’s “word of the cross,” however, does help me understand the world we live in.\n'With liberty and justice for all'\nIt’s not enough to recognise the philosophical assumptions that underpin what Paul wrote. We have our own assumptions about the world. Our faith in free trade, for instance, or international cooperation, education, and free and fair elections. I grew up surrounded by people who shared these articles of faith. They still make sense to me, but to how many others? As a child, I began each school day speaking a pledge in unison that ended “. . . with liberty and justice for all.” I continue to believe that as deeply as I believe words that Jesus spoke a few days before his crucifixion:\n“I was a stranger and you welcomed me, I was naked and you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came to me. . . Truly, I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of my brethren, you did it to me” (Matthew 25:35–40).\nMost of the time, politics is a matter of negotiating a panoply of interests, needs, and values. I’m wary of reducing every issue to black-and-white. Yet there are moments — and the current policy of programmatic inhumanity as an instrument of deterrence is one —when it must be named for what it is.\nIt is evil.\nObliged to resist\nWhen confronted with Romans 13 in the film scene I mentioned, Bonhoeffer replies, “Are we here to discuss theology?” This is not because he was unable to give a theological answer to Roeder’s abuse of Paul’s letter. It concerned a passage Bonhoeffer had long wrestled with, schooled as he was as a member of the Prussian upper-middle class that found it difficult distinguish the will of the Kaiser from the will of God. Yet he concluded that there are certain rare occasions when a Christian is not only permitted to resist, but obligated. This is no doubt one of them.\nAt the very least, concerned citizens are right to speak up, as they have been doing, all across the political spectrum. To suggest, as the Attorney General has done, that Christians pastors shouldn’t do this is both an abuse of scripture and a display of ignorance of the noble American tradition of dissent.\nThe views expressed in this article are solely those of the author, and do not necessarily reflect the views of swissinfo.ch.\nOpinion series swissinfo.ch publishes op-ed articles by contributors writing on a wide range of topics – Swiss issues or those that impact Switzerland. The selection of articles presents a diversity of opinions designed to enrich the debate on the issues discussed.\nNeuer Inhalt Horizontal Line\nswissinfo EN Teaser Join us on Facebook! swissinfo.ch Join us on Facebook!}}
{{Photo: John Moore (Getty Images)\nAmerica tried everything to keep the migrants out. Men and women were arrested at the border. Children were separated from parents. People got thrown in jail for violating random rules that nobody knew or understood. Kids went missing and the white nationalist president blamed his political opponents and the victims at the border. As much as this may sound like an opening monologue from a CNN pundit talking about Donald Trump’s zero tolerance immigration policy in 2018, the scenarios described actually date to 100 years ago.\nThey all happened in America during the Great Migration of 1915, except the border wasn’t the U.S.-Mexico boundary in Texas, it was the border between Kentucky and Ohio; the white nationalist president at the time was Woodrow Wilson; and the people fleeing violence and seeking asylum were African Americans.\nUnfortunately, America has a tendency to repeat itself, and if the past is any indicator, the current chaos at the border is going to get much, much worse.\nMost decent Americans think that Trump and U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ policy of separating families at the border (and subsequently losing thousands of kids) is barbaric. The need for context in public debate has led to media and political leaders comparing this administration’s policies to the Japanese internment era of World War II, or chattel slavery, or even Native American “boarding schools.”\nUnless your history textbooks were all printed in Texas, it’s not that hard to find examples of America’s horrible treatment of nonwhite people, but most comparisons miss a crucial element of what is happening today and how it connects with the Great Migration of the past: asylum.\nAdvertisement\nThe Great Migration, which ran from right after World War I until the early 1960s, has always been misnamed. Calling the almost 500,000 black folks who made their way from the Deep South to the North “migrants” is like calling the Cherokee on the Trail of Tears, speed-walkers.\nBlack folks weren’t migrating, they were fleeing Southern terrorism, they were asylum-seekers in every single way, except name. Post-Reconstruction Southern states routinely terrorized the black population: the convict-lease system put more than 200,000 men and women into a prison slavery system; arbitrary “vagrancy” laws were used as an excuse to imprison men, women and children, and steal land. This was on top of the systemic rape and torture of black women and children and the subsequent lynchings of black folks every year directly by, or with the tactic consent of, the police.\nHistory books would have you believe the Great Migration was mostly about finding nice jobs in Chicago and escaping a drought, just like how Jeff Sessions wants Americans today to believe the people being rounded up at the U.S.-Mexico border are just trying to steal apple-picking jobs from hardworking Americans.\nAdvertisement\nBoth are lies. These people today are fleeing terror just like black folks were 100 years ago.\nI’m sure some of you are putting on your Corey Lewandowski thinking caps and saying: “Nice try you liberal tool—but the Great Migration was black citizens traveling in their own country; that’s totally different from these foreigners at the border—whose shithole countries are not our problem by the way #MAGA!”\nThese are the kinds of thoughts that go through the minds of people who learn all of their American history from Bill O’Reilly’s books.\nAdvertisement\nFirst, in the early 20th century, Southern black folks were citizens in name only, and barely that. They couldn’t vote, their property rights were seldom enforced, and their human rights were routinely violated. Despite paying taxes, they received no protection from the government. They were treated like undocumented aliens in a nation they built for free.\nThe same can be said for the thousands of men, women and children at the U.S. border today, who are victims of drug cartels, corrupt government and relative anarchy in many of their countries. They aren’t enjoying much citizenship either.\nAs for the idea that the conditions asylum-seekers face today aren’t really America’s problem unlike those of Jim Crow refugees, that’s just patently untrue.\nAdvertisement\nThe rampant violence that leads people to seek asylum from Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador can be directly traced to America sticking its nose into the affairs of those countries.\nStarting in the 1960s and still active today, the U.S.-funded U.S. Army School of the Americas (now renamed the generic Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation) has trained more than 60,000 soldiers and officers who have always seemed to end up back in South America to overthrow democratically elected governments.\nSchool of the Americas alumni have destabilized Guatemala, El Salvador and dozens of other countries. The Honduran coup in 2009 was led by an SOA graduate and had Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama’s fingerprints all over it. Like black folks a century ago, these people are forced to seek asylum from the very nations that disrupted their lives to begin with.\nAdvertisement\nSo what happens with all of this Trump-manufactured chaos at the border? History tells us we have a lot of violence coming.\nAs most public schools skip out on all black history between the slavery and the civil rights movement, most people have never learned about the “white-lash” to the Great Migration.\nDuring the Red Summer of 1919 (celebrating 100 years of racial violence next year!), white mobs attacked black communities and businesses in Norfolk, Arizona, Chicago, Arkansas, Washington, D.C., and dozens of other places across the country, leaving hundreds dead and thousands of lives ruined.\nAdvertisement\nWithin the next year, it’s not hard to imagine terror attacks on so-called sanctuary cities and migrant internment camps, along with the rising number of white nationalist and hate crime attacks across the country since Donald Trump and Jeff Sessions got into office.\nWe’ve seen this story before, played out in the same country, with just a different set of nonwhite people, and we already know it doesn’t end well.}}
{{Reports that Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich may be emigrating to Israel are unconfirmed rumors, a Daily Mail article published Thursday evening stated.\nThe article reported that claims in the Israeli newspaper Israel Hayom that Abramovich arrived in Israel Thursday to make aliya, and is even building a house near Tel Aviv, were denied by both Tel Aviv and Moscow, with both saying they had no information on the matter.\n"This is a sort of rumor," an Israeli Ministry of Aliya and Integration spokeswoman told Russia's state-owned Sputnik news agency, according to the Daily Mail. "We know the names of people arriving at airports today, we receive this information. Abramovich's name is not [on the list]."\nThe Jewish billionaire was reportedly in the process of building a mansion in Tel Aviv’s Neve Tzedek neighborhood. According to Forbes, Abramovich, 51, retains a net worth of $9.1 billion and was ranked as the 139th richest person in the world and 12th richest person in Russia in 2017.\nAbramovich’s business ventures include Millhouse Capital, Evraz (a coal and steel mining company) and Norenickel (a nickel and palladium mining and smelting company).\nAbramovich acquired the British soccer team Chelsea FC in 2003. The team has had enjoyed much success since then, including a 2012 victory in the Champions League.\nThe Russian oligarch is a frequent visitor to Israel and a philanthropist of both the State of Israel and Jewish communities in Russia. Abramovich received a special award from the Federation of Jewish Communities of Russia for his contributions of over $500 million over the past 20 years to Jewish causes in Israel and Russia.\nShare on facebook Share on twitter}}
{{Shawn Mendes has released his self-titled third album. The release follows a 9-hour YouTube livestream announcement in which a number of visual artists carefully crafted a floral rendition of the album’s cover art. Since then, we’ve heard singles “In My Blood,” “Lost in Japan,” “Where Were You in the Morning?,” “Nervous,” and “Youth” with breakout R&B singer Khalid.\nEarlier this month, the vocalist performed his song “Youth” with the Parkland students at the 2018 Billboard Music Awards. In April, John Mayer affectionately called him “a pop star born both of and for Generation Z” with “a very strong, clear, wide-eyed view of the world.” Check out Mendes’ new self-titled album below.}}
{{For several decades, a trip to Europe simply meant a visit to London, Paris and the Alps of Switzerland. Indians today, though, are looking beyond the tried and tested destinations and making an attempt to explore the rest of Europe as well. A more integrated global economy, moreover, has resulted in a more widespread Indian diaspora. Indeed, if you know where to look, you’ll find traces of Indian culture even in some unlikely cities. Lisbon and Munich are good cities to include in your European sojourn as they both offer compelling reasons to visit, thanks to a vibrant cultural life. Here’s a guide to everything Indian at Lisbon and Munich, when you wish to take a break from all the sight-seeing and bar crawling you’re likely to indulge in.\nLisbon\nLisbon is known as one of the most vibrant cities in Western Europe. On its streets, the ancient and the modern co-exist in effortless harmony. This shows in the fact that the patron saint day festivities every June make way for a summer that celebrates the arts with rock, jazz and fado concerts, theatre performances and art exhibitions taking place around the city. Every two years, Lisbon also hosts the largest Rock festival in the world, Rock in Rio Lisboa, that sees a staggering footfall.\nThe cultural life of the city has seen a revival of sorts under the current Prime Minister, Antonio Costa. Costa is of Indian origin, and like many other Indian-origin citizens prominent in Portugal’s political, business and entertainment scenes, he exemplifies Lisbon’s deep Indian connect. Starting from Vasco Da Gama’s voyage to India, Lisbon’s historic connection to Goa is well-documented. Its traces can be still be seen on the streets of both to this day.\nWhile the Indian population in Lisbon is largely integrated with the local population, a few diaspora groups are trying to keep their cultural roots alive. Casa de Goa, formed in the ‘90s, is an association of people of Goans, Damanese and Diuese origins residing in Lisbon. Ekvat (literally meaning ‘roots’ in Konkani) is their art and culture arm that aims to preserve Goan heritage in Portugal. Through all of its almost 30-year-long existence, Ekvat has been presenting traditional Goan dance and music performances in Portugal and internationally.\nChamplimaud Centre for the Unknown (Source: By Carlos Luis MC da Cruz via Wikimedia Commons) Paparis (papad) served in Lisbon (Source: By Adriano via Wikimedia Commons) Beaches near Lisbon (Source: By Singa Hitam via Wikimedia Commons) The streets of Lisbon (Source: By Maria Eklind via Wikimedia Commons)\nBe sure to visit the Champlimaud Centre for the Unknown, hailed a masterpiece of contemporary architecture, which was designed by the critically-acclaimed Goan architect Charles Correa. If you pay attention, you can find ancient Indian influences, like cut-out windows and stand-alone pillars. The National Museum of Ancient Art also has on display a collection of intricately-crafted traditional Goan jewellery. At LOSTIn - Esplanada Bar, half of the people can be found lounging about in kurtas and Indian shawls. There’s also a mural of Bal Krishna and a traditional Rajasthani-style door to complete the desi picture. But it’s not just the cultural landmarks that reflect this connection. The integration of Goans in Lisbon is so deep that most households tend to have Goa-inspired textiles and furniture as a part of their home decor, and most families have adapted Goan curries in their cuisine. In the past two decades, the city has seen a surge in the number of non-Goan Indians as well. North Indian delicacies, for example, are readily available and can be found on Zomato, which has a presence in the city.\nIf you wish to avoid the crowds of the peak tourist season, you can even consider a visit to Lisbon during winter. To plan your trip, check out your travel options here.\nMunich\nMunich’s biggest draw remains the Oktoberfest – the world’s largest beer festival for which millions of people from around the world converge in this historic city. Apart from the flowing Oktoberfest beer, it also offers a great way to get acquainted with the Bavarian folk culture and sample their traditional foods such as Sauerkraut (red cabbage) and Weißwurst (a white sausage).\nIf you plan to make the most of the Oktoberfest, along with the Bavarian hospitality you also have access to the services of the Indian diaspora settled in Munich. Though the Indian community in Munich is smaller than in other major European destinations, it does offer enough of a desi connect to satisfy your needs. The ISKCON temple at Munich observes all major rituals and welcomes everyone to their Sunday feasts. It’s not unusual to find Germans, dressed in saris and dhotis, engrossed in the bhajans. The Art of Living centre offers yoga and meditation programmes and discourses on various spiritual topics. The atmosphere at the Gurdwara Sri Guru Nanak Sabha is similarly said to be peaceful and accommodating of people of all faiths. They even organise guided tours for the benefit of the non-Sikhs who are curious to learn more about the religion. Their langar is not to be missed.\nMunich's Christmas Market (Source: Pixabay) International Bollywood Flash Mob in Munich (Source: By Pavan Prasad via YouTube) Oktoberfest (Source: Pixabay)\nThere are more options that’ll help make your stay more comfortable. Some Indian grocery stores in the city stock all kinds of Indian spices and condiments. In some, like Asien Bazar, you can even bargain in Hindi! Once or twice a month, Indian film screenings do take place in the cinema halls, but the best way to catch up on developments in Indian cinema is to rent video cassettes and VCDs. Kohinoor sells a wide range of Bollywood VCDs, whereas Kumaras Asean Trades sells Tamil cassettes. The local population of Munich, and indeed most Germans too, are largely enamoured by Bollywood. Workshops on Bollywood dance are quite popular, as are Bollywood-themed events like DJ nights and dance parties.\nThe most attractive time to visit is during the Oktoberfest, but if you can brave the weather, Munich during Christmas is also a sight to behold. You can book your tickets here.\nThanks to the efforts of the Indian diaspora abroad, even lesser-known European destinations offer a satisfying desi connect to the proud Indian traveller. Lufthansa, which offers connectivity to Lisbon and Munich, caters to its Indian flyers’ priorities and understands how proud they are of their culture. In all its India-bound flights and flights departing from India, flyers can expect a greeting of Namaste by an all-Indian crew, Indian food, and popular Indian in-flight entertainment options, making the airline More Indian than You Think. And as the video shows, India’s culture and hospitality have been internalised by Lufthansa to the extent that they now offer a definitive Indian flying experience.\nPlay\nThis article was produced by the Scroll marketing team on behalf of Lufthansa as part of their More Indian Than You Think initiative and not by the Scroll editorial team.}}
{{A record 68.5 million people have been forced flee their homes due to war, violence and persecution, notably in places like Myanmar and Syria, the UN said on Tuesday.\nBy the end of 2017, the number was nearly three million higher than the previous year and showed a 50-percent increase from the 42.7 million uprooted from their homes a decade ago, according to a report by the UN refugee agency.\nThe current figure is equivalent to the entire population of Thailand, and the number of people forcibly displaced equates to one in every 110 persons worldwide, it said.\n"We are at a watershed, where success in managing forced displacement globally requires a new and far more comprehensive approach so that countries and communities aren't left dealing with this alone," said UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi.\nBut around 70 percent of that number are people from just 10 countries, he told reporters in Geneva ahead of the report's launch.}}
{{Christmas Day service for Sudanese migrants in Melbourne full of dancing and prayer\nPosted\nAustralia's Christmas Day services have been given a new splash of colour, song and dance by Sudanese migrants.\n"When you see us dancing it [is] our way of pleasing God, like praising God," said Abraham Kon, from the Jolwoliech youth ministry.\nMore than 200 people packed out the Holy Apostles church in the Melbourne suburb of Sunshine for a Sudanese Christmas Day service.\nThe service included sermons, communion, and quiet moments of prayer.\nBut for most of it, churchgoers sang songs of praise in their traditional language.\nAnd just before it ended, children and young adults took the over the service with a series of dance performances.\n"Dancing is one of the most important things that we could do to please God," Mr Kon said.\n"Dancing is about communication.\n"God has different ways to communicate … and you have to smile, you have to please God."\nThe dances incorporated traditional music and moves, but also included some pop and hip hop.\nThat is because the Sudanese community is not just one of the fastest growing in Australia — it is also demographically one of the youngest.\nAnd in some cases the community is struggling to find its way in Australia.\nSome young Sudanese people have become involved in crime in Melbourne, and the message at the service was about integration.\nReverend Daniel Gai Aleu led the Christmas Day service and had a simple message for those that attended.\n"Love yourself, love your brother, love your neighbour, love your country," he said.\n"As you see here now, we have a lot of good young people.\n"There are a lot of challenges, but it is my hope, that one day, one time, Australia will know the Sudanese are good people."\nTopics: community-and-society, charities-and-community-organisations, religion-and-beliefs, christianity, sunshine-3020, melbourne-3000}}
{{Summer is coming to a close and the rainy weather proves that fall is just around the corner. If you are already missing the sun there’s no better cure than heading to one of the great gigs we picked out for you this weekend.\nRussian pop-rock hooligans from St. Petersburg Leningrad have rightfully deserved the title of “band of the year.” They've been around for more than two decades, but this year Leningrad released not one, but two of their most popular songs to date. One is "Eksponat" (Art work) with the famous line describing a girl’s perfect outfit for a date — “na labutenakh i v ohuitelnih shtanakh” (wearing Louboutin shoes and freaking awesome pants) and the other is “V Pitere Pit” (St. Petersburg is for drinking), which did more for the tourism industry of the northern capital than all the city government efforts.\nIzvestiya Hall. 5 Strastnoi Bulvar. Metro Tverskaya, Pushkinskaya. Tickets from 8,000 rubles ($124). Thursday at 8 p.m.}}
{{The group hopped on a New York City tour bus to sing for unsuspecting fans with the help of TripAdvisor. The guys regaled the tourists with holiday favorites like "Jingle Bells" and "We Wish You a Merry Christmas."\n"We've been doing a lot of traveling in our very own tour bus, so this is one of our few days off and it's great to be here in New York," the group said of the holiday surprise. Watch it here.}}
{{A dozen years before the influx of refugees and migrants to Europe’s shores would force policymakers to take heed, Michael Winterbottom’s 2002 docudrama In this World brought the inside story of international migration to the big screen.\nIn charting the risky, clandestine journey to Europe of two Afghans – the teenage Jamal and 30-something Ineyatullah from the Shamshatoo Refugee Camp in Pakistan’s northwest – the film demonstrates the simple but not uncontroversial truth: Jamal and Ineyatullah are at once refugees and migrants.\nLike so many immigrants, they simply seek a better life, one of freedom, opportunity and dignity. At the same time, these Afghans are also refugees – people displaced by conflict and poverty – seeking a better life.\nFrom languishing in Peshawar and nearly suffocating in the back of a truck during the crossing into Europe, to working without papers in London, theirs is a story of displacement, struggle and marginalisation.\nIt’s also a story of the economic and political borders that fence people in. Transcending these invisible frontiers requires taking inordinate risks. For Ineyatullah, doing so cost his life.\nJamal’s tale has a happier ending: after applying for asylum in England, he was adopted by a British family who’d seen Winterbottom’s film, finally giving the boy a place to call home.\nM. Abdullah/Reuters\nWorld Refugee Day\nJune 20 is World Refugee Day, a time to reflect on not just refugees but on those people who, like Jamal and Ineyatullah, are both refugees and migrants.\nThe day of commemoration comes at a historic moment: for the first time ever, all United Nations member states are working together to develop two new global compacts. The first is on shared responsibility for refugees and the second on more humane, coordinated and dignified approaches to governing global migration.\nThe project began in September 2016, when the UN adopted the landmark New York Declaration to forge a coordinated architecture for global governance of both refugees and migrants within two years.\nBoth compacts are scheduled for completion by 2018. For them to work, policymakers must consider the many millions of people currently in transit whose situations confound the conventional demarcation between refugee and migrant.\nUnder international law, the rights of refugees – those forced to leave their country because of war or persecution – are enshrined in the 1951 Convention for Refugees and its subsequent 1967 protocol.\nPeople who are perceived to have pulled up stakes by choice, on the other hand, lack any comprehensive global rights or protections. Migrants do benefit from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which was signed in 1948 to respond to the refugee flows resulting from the second world war.\nBut beyond some basic protections, many displaced people today defy the parameters used by policymakers to define who is entitled to what rights. And this legal limbo puts many migrants in grave danger.\nMigrant or refugee?\nAll people who cross international borders without papers, whether they are Central Americans riding the trains through Mexico to get to the United States or Ethiopians escaping hunger in unseaworthy dinghies, face myriad risks. They include the underworld of smugglers, inhumane treatment by authorities and the mental and physical dangers of invisibility and exploitation.\nA recent article in the Guardian, for example, reported that criminal gangs in Libya have been holding hundreds of migrants to ransom.\nSince 2015, the waters of the Mediterranean have been replete with such traumas, as migrants and refugees from sub-Saharan Africa, Somalia, Ethiopia and Eritrea to Pakistan, Bangladesh, Syria and Afghanistan try desperately to get to Europe.\nSome of these people may well fit the legal definition of a refugee. Others have set off on their dangerous journeys as migrants, in pursuit of jobs and opportunities.\nStefano Rellandini/Reuters\nToo many never make it. In 2016, it’s estimated that over 5,000 people died crossing the Mediterranean, highlighting the dire need to offer some form of humanitarian protection to migrants, legal status aside.\nChildren on the road\nMinors are among the most poignant examples of this quandary.\nTake Abdallah, now 19. In February 2017, he was being supported at the Bayt al-Thaqafa Foundation in Barcelona, an organisation that helps resettle young immigrants.\nA decade ago, when he was just nine years old, Abdallah’s family in Morocco made a choice for him about his future. His uncle smuggled him from a village in the Rif mountains into the Spanish colonial city of Ceuta.\nAbandoned on the streets, Abdallah begged for several weeks until he was picked up by local authorities. After spending some time in a centre for minors, he was sent to Barcelona, where he lived the next nine years in a residence for children who, like him, who had crossed an international border without papers.\nOver time, peers and mentors there replaced Abdallah’s family back home. He learned Spanish and Catalan, learned computer skills and earned a high school degree.\nOn his 18th birthday, time ran out. His residency permit allowed Abdallah to stay in Barcelona, but not to work. It was Spain’s legal right to send Abdallah back “home” to a family he no longer remembered well.\nJavier Barbancho/Reuters\nBut where is home, really, for someone like Abdallah, who spent his formative years far from his birthplace through no choice of his own? And what obligations do countries have to protect these young people?\nJust “ordinary immigrants”\nAs Hannah Arendt, the preeminent political theorist and herself a refugee, wrote in her 1943 essay We Refugees:\nIn the first place, we don’t like being called ‘refugees’…. We did our best to prove to others that we were just ordinary immigrants…. We wanted to rebuild our lives, that was all.\nThat same idea fuels the struggle of displaced persons today. Whether driven by hunger, violence or poverty, they arrive in their host country hoping to become ordinary – different in ethnicity and culture, perhaps – productive citizens.\nAs the UN and its member states aim to tackle the policy needs of human mobility in its entirety, developing one compact each for refugees and migrants, let them not forget that millions of migrants and refugees experience blurred and interconnected situations, and everyone is just seeking a place to call home.}}
{{A man who allegedly threatened a woman and her baby on a Vancouver bus last month is now facing multiple charges.\nThe Metro Vancouver Transit Police says 56-year-old Arthur Emile Cherpak of no fixed address has been charged with two counts of uttering threats, and one count each of assault and criminal harassment in the incident.\nPolice say the altercation happened on the evening of May 31, when a woman got on a bus at Davie and Bute Streets in Downtown Vancouver with her 16-month-old child in a stroller.\nA few minutes later, a man also got on and stood beside them.\nREAD MORE: Long-term offender nabbed while trying to force his way through SkyTrain faregate\nPolice say he began to focus on the child, leaning over the carriage and allegedly repeatedly pressing the baby’s harness release.\nInvestigators say when the mother asked him to stop he became angry and abusive, yelling and swearing at her.\nPolice say when another passenger tried to intervene, the suspect allegedly challenged him to a fight and threatened to break his nose.\nWhen the mother tried to exit the bus, he allegedly then blocked her way, lunging at her and the baby.\nPolice say other passengers eventually grabbed and held him, before he broke free and left he bus.\nInvestigators say Cherpack was identified and arrested earlier in June and is due in court Tuesday.}}
{{OTTAWA — Police say an underage boy has been charged with first-degree murder after an early-morning shooting in Ottawa on Saturday.\nInvestigators say they arrived on scene at about 3 a.m. to find a man suffering from a single gunshot wound.\nThey say 50-year-old Keith Fitzsimmons was taken to hospital and pronounced dead.\nOfficers say they took two people into custody, and later charged the boy — whose identity is protected by the Youth Criminal Justice Act — with murder.}}
{{Diana Mendez (R), 39 and Ana Hernandez, 11, shelter from the sun at a 24-hour vigil calling on Congress to pass immigration reform in Los Angeles June 27, 2013. REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson\nWASHINGTON (Reuters) - White House spokesman Jay Carney said on Wednesday that he expects Congress will pass a comprehensive immigration reform bill that President Barack Obama will sign into law.\nWhile Republicans in the House of Representatives have balked at key provisions of a sweeping reform law passed by the Senate, Carney said he believes “enough pressure will be brought to bear on House Republicans that they will act, and we will see comprehensive immigration reform arrive on the president’s desk so that he can sign it.”\nAppearing on CNN, Carney said the Republican-led House will be pressed to act “because there’s a coalition ... of business leaders, of labor leaders, of church, faith leaders, of law enforcement leaders who say we need to do this for our economy and for our middle class.”\nThe Senate has passed a sweeping, bipartisan immigration bill that includes a pathway to citizenship for millions of undocumented immigrants. Republican opponents have called the measure an “amnesty” that would reward lawbreakers and attract more illegal immigrants.}}
{{WASHINGTON (AP) — Trump says he'll be "signing something" on immigration, wants to keep migrant families together.}}
{{× Lottery luck strikes twice for Quebec man who won millions\nQUEBEC CITY — There are lucky men, and then there’s Jules Parent.\nFor the second time in nine years, the 69-year-old Quebec retiree has won a million Canadian dollars playing the lottery.\nParent muses, “Was I born under a good star?”\nHe showed up at lottery offices to pick up a check for $1,222,069 after winning the jackpot from an online play worth $3.20. Loto-Quebec places the odds of such a bet at about one in 23 million.\nParent also won $1 million back in 2008.\nHe said Thursday that gambling is one of his favorite pastimes along with walking, hunting and fishing, and he intends to keep playing. He also plans to build a new home.\nIn Parent’s words: “It won’t be a castle, but it will be in the modern style.”}}
{{Lynn Atkins/The Weekly Vista Bill Hesse poses with a nutcracker dressed as the character Herr Drosselmeyer from "The Nutcracker." Hesse has performed the role several times including with the Ballet Conservatory in Bentonville.\nIt was his love of theater that brought Bill Hesse into dance and kept him coming back year after year. The retired music teacher still performs often with the Northwest Conservatory of Classical Ballet in Bentonville.}}
{{I want to say thank you to the Ottawa County Veterans Affairs office: Angelisa, Jenn, Jaime, Matt, Sara and the board of directors. I was laid off from my job and went to them for help. While I was sitting waiting to see the board, I saw a sign on the wall that said “No homeless veterans”. They helped there be one less homeless veteran this year.\nI was going to be evicted and they helped me and I appreciate that. I have talked with people who go through Cleveland area VAs and they say they wish they had what we have here; we have the best VA office.\nThanks to them, my son has somewhere to spend Christmas with his dad.\nThank you,\nChristopher Orosco\nArmy veteran, Port Clinton}}
{{LOS ANGELES, July 17 (Reuters) - Pop singer Justin Timberlake and hip-hop duo Macklemore & Ryan Lewis each received six nominations for the MTV Video Music Awards, which were announced on Wednesday.\nTimberlake, 32, made his long-awaited return to music earlier this year with “The 20/20 Experience,” which has become 2013’s best-selling album so far.\nIndie rapper-producer duo Macklemore & Ryan Lewis have taken the music industry by storm in the past year, with hits including “Thrift Shop” and “Can’t Hold Us.”\nTimberlake’s “Mirrors” and Macklemore & Ryan Lewis’ “Thrift Shop” will go head-to-head in the fan-voted Video of the Year category, the top award of the night, at the annual awards show that will take place on Aug. 25 in Brooklyn, New York.\nBruno Mars’ “Locked Out of Heaven,” Taylor Swift’s “I Knew You Were Trouble” and Robin Thicke’s “Blurred Lines,” featuring T.I. and Pharrell, will also compete in the category.\nMTV’s Video Music Awards sees itself as an off-beat, youth-oriented take on the buttoned-up music industry awards, such as the Grammys, and instead showcases the music videos behind the songs and hands out astronaut statuettes, known as the “Moonman,” to winners.\nOther top nominees this year include R&B singer Mars, who received four nominations, and pop singers Pink, Thicke, Miley Cyrus and rock group 30 Seconds to Mars with three nods each. (Reporting by Eric Kelsey, Editing by Piya Sinha-Roy and Stacey Joyce)}}
{{(Bloomberg) -- Glencore Plc’s Katanga Mining division has agreed to pay more than $22 million to Canada’s biggest stock market regulator amid allegations the company hid risks of doing business in the Democratic Republic of Congo, according to the Wall Street Journal, which cited a person familiar with the matter.\nThe Ontario Securities Commission alleged that Katanga hid risks associated with doing business with an Israeli businessman, Dan Gertler, who has close ties to outgoing Congolese President Joseph Kabila. Gertler first invested in the mining division alongside Glencore about 10 years ago.\nThe commission is expected to allege the Congolese president lacked proper internal financial controls, pushing the company to exaggerate its copper production, while at the same time downplaying mining costs. As a result, the moves may have inflated the miner’s performance, according to the Journal, which was the first to report the story. The settlement will probably be announced as early as this week, it said.\nThe company declined to comment.\nTo contact the reporter on this story: Vildana Hajric in New York at vhajric1@bloomberg.net\nTo contact the editors responsible for this story: Jeremy Herron at jherron8@bloomberg.net, Virginia Van Natta, Ian Fisher\n©2018 Bloomberg L.P.}}
{{A new poll shows that 27 per cent of Albertans aren’t currently saving their dollars and cents up for anything—a figure higher than any other province.\nThe poll asked Canadians to evaluate the importance of their possessions and found that nearly 9-in-10 Canadians (or 88 per cent) considered their home to be important.\nThe poll also found that 14 per cent of Albertans indicated they’re saving up for a home, while 27 per cent aren’t saving for anything.\nFurther, Allstate found that Alberta was above the national average of 88 per cent with 90 per cent of GenXers and 93 per cent of baby boomers placing a higher value on their home.\nAlbertans are also less likely to value their family keepsakes and heirlooms when compared to the rest of the country, with only 70 per cent—eight points below the national average— saying these items are important to them.}}
{{New Ta-coumba Aiken mural celebrates Rondo community spirit at Walker West Music Academy\nArtist Ta-coumba Aiken created a large mural for the Walker West Music Academy that reflects the rich history of the Rondo community. (Simone Cazares | MPR)\nSponsor\nSponsor\nIn the heart of the Rondo community, music comes alive at the Walker West Music Academy. Founded in 1988 by musicians Reverend Carl Walker and Grant West, Walker West Music Academy has created a safe space in the community, teaching people of all ages and backgrounds to play music. When the academy moved from its original location on Selby Avenue to a larger building across the street (a couple blocks west of Dale Avenue) in 2014, they renovated the inside of the building, but outside, the building still needed work to make it a true home for its students and community.\nThat’s where local artist Ta-coumba Aiken came in. After moving to Rondo as a young man, he found mentors in the community who looked out for him and kept him on the right track. Over the years, he has also seen the impact Walker West and other organizations have had on the community. He began working with former executive director Peter Leggett to create a mural that would reflect the spirit of Rondo and inspire Walker West students the moment they walk through the doors.\n“Rondo has been my inspiration since I discovered the Rondo community in 1973,” Aiken said. “Some of the people there became my elders. There were people in Minneapolis too, but the whole community of Rondo felt like they kept their eye on you. They would call you over from the sidewalk that would lead up to their porch and they would say, ‘Young man,’ ‘Yes ma’am,’ ‘You’re doing good.’ Then I’d go away and that was all I needed was the affirmation.”\n“I’ve been trying to put art in the community to help show people this is an important community,” the artist continued. “At the same time establish myself as an artist of note, but not by sacrificing my [ideal] of how art should work in the community. It should be an integral part of the growth, development and healing of a community.”\nIn the mural, Aiken reflected the rhythm, movement and heartbeat of the community. He included images related to Rondo music, African-American history, and the area’s rich community. However, making the mural happen didn’t happen overnight. The process, from initial meetings with Walker West and the community to matching matching a $50,000 grant they received from the Knight Foundation and then finally renovating the exterior of the building took four years. But to Aiken, all the work was worth it. He was able to create the mural in durable enameled metalwork.\nWhen all the work was done, Walker West celebrated the completion of its new home last month. Aiken was at the event, where he interacted with members of the community. He wanted to make it clear to them that although he created the piece, it was their work, not his — and instead of telling them what was in the mural, he let them tell him. For him, it was important for people to interpret the mural in their own way and have it truly be a part of the community.\n“I don’t want to have to be there and stand there like a billboard, because people’s experiences are very important to me,” Aiken said. “I won’t tell someone it’s an apple tree until they see an apple on it. I don’t need to do that, I jut need to get them to the tree. It could be shade, it could be just be beautiful, I don’t know. Everybody has a different story about the places that they are and the people they meet.”\nSimone Cazares is a student at Saint Paul College. Originally from Miami, Fla., she survives Minnesota’s cruel winters by immersing herself in the Twin Cities music scene.}}
{{Summer is almost officially here, which means it’s time to grab that swimsuit, hit the beach and break out the tunes.\nNearly every year there are a few contenders for the one song that will define the summer. Cue Rihanna’s “Umbrella” from 2005 or Carly Rae Jepsen’s 2012 hit “Call Me Maybe.” The jury is still out about whether 2016 had a definitive song of the summer, so we’re hoping one single rises to the top for 2017.\nThe good news? Several possibilities have already surfaced this year ― with some more likely to reach the summer-song status than others. In other words, yes, the race is on. And nestled in between the popular singles are musical gems that aren’t overplayed, but deserve to be heard.\nThe team over at HuffPost Entertainment rounded up both in this handy guide ― all for your listening pleasure. By no means is this a comprehensive list.\nBehold, the tracks we have on repeat right now ... Maybe one of these will represent summer 2017, or perhaps will simply become your summer jam.\n“Cut to the Feeling” - Carly Rae Jepsen\nShut it down. Contest over. Carly Slay Jepsen (the preferred spelling) came back in a big way this summer to save pop music from Ed Sheeran. Is it one of the 250 songs she wrote for her iconic album “Emotion”? Yes. Was it released to promote some animated film about ballerinas we’ll never see? Absolutely. But “Cut to the Feeling” is the kind of song that makes you strut down the sidewalk like you’re in competing in an “America’s Next Top Model” finale. With a chorus that demands to be belted and *shock* an actual build, this undeniable bop will have you asking why all your faves have been doing it wrong.\n- Cole Delbyck\n“I’m the One” - DJ Khaled ft. Justin Bieber, Quavo, Chance The Rapper, Lil Wayne\nThere are a few rules that the annual Song of Summer needs to follow without exception:\nIt must be incredibly well-known. The Song of Summer is never the best song of the season, but it is the best of the most famous songs of the season. It must be predominantly basic, with a little something on the side for the music nerds. It must be written in a major key ― ideally the key of C or G ― and make people smile. It must be playable at an outdoor BBQ, while passable on the dance floor at night. It must include a bass line that bounces to and fro, allowing for easy dancing. Moms need to like it, and they need to make it known they like it after a couple drinks too. It must be intergenerational, including both members of the new guard and members of the old guard. It must be created by its makers to be the Song of Summer. There are no accidents in the music industry. There are only cynical money grabs. And by the final day of Summer, the entire world must never want to hear it again.\nThus, the song of the summer is “I’m The One,” by DJ Khaled and featuring Justin Bieber, Quavo, Chance The Rapper and Lil Wayne. And it’s not close.\n- Maxwell Strachan\n“Humble” - Kendrick Lamar\nI heard a small child yelling along to this song late into the night as I waited for a bus that seemed like it would never come. “Be humble!” this young person screamed in an adorable high pitch. “Sit down!” (Of course absent from this kid’s sing-along was the interspersed and repeated “Hol’ up, bitch” between those lines.)\nSongs of summer need to be extremely ubiquitous, danceable and fun for the whole family. “Humble” is very much those first two things, but only questionably the third. Given Kendrick Lamar’s immense rapping ability, it’s also beyond unlikely that the wedding dance floors this summer are going to be able to keep up with Lamar to shout along in joyous unison.\nSo in this increasingly fractured culture where any large consensus is increasingly hard to achieve with each successive year (2016 didn’t have a definitive song of summer), I’d argue that “Be humble!” / “Sit down!” will at least be the “musical lyric of the summer.” Besides, of course, simply being a great part of a great song on a great album.\n- Todd Van Luling\n“Bad Liar” - Selena Gomez\nThe song of the summer must invite endless listenability at increasing volumes. A swishy chorus (not to be confused with “Swish Swish,” heaven forbid) helps, too. With that in mind, I give you “Bad Liar,” a sleek jive that borrows the bass line from Talking Heads’ “Psycho Killer.” Opening with gentle claps that blossom into twinkling cascades of sensuality, the production value remains cool and understated. Many pop stars are in the running for the year’s crown, but none of the others turn “serpentine” into a verb or craft a rhyme using the words “actuality” and “reality.” Selena is our summer-anthem queen.\n- Matt Jacobs\n“Despacito” - Luis Fonsi, Daddy Yankee ft. Justin Bieber\nThe last time a track sung mostly in Spanish topped the pop charts was more than 20 years ago ―in 1996 with Los Del Rio’s “Macarena.” That changed this year with the release of Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee’s “Despacito,” featuring Justin Bieber. The reggaeton beat is undeniably catchy. And it doesn’t hurt that the video is downright fun, making us excited about summer romance and a memorable night out. This song will likely top many songs of the summer lists — with good reason. It’s already a massive global hit, and it’s on track to define summer 2017.\n- Lauren Moraski\n“Slow Hands” - Niall Horan\nThis groovy track from former One Direction member Niall Horan doesn’t exactly conjure images of bopping in jean shorts at a sticky-hot BBQ like all good songs of the summer should. Still, it is a delightfully edgy and seductive pop track that will get stuck in your head and make you shout “SLOW! HANDS!” at unsuspecting passersby as you perspire on public transit and contemplate exactly what Horan means when he says “sweat dripping down our dirty laundry.”\n- Jill Capewell\n“Holding On” - The War on Drugs\nIf you haven’t listened to their album “Lost in the Dream” over and over again since 2014, then you’re missing out on the magic that is The War on Drugs. The rock, Americana vibe this indie group gives off is mysterious, addicting and passionate. Their new single, “Holding On,” has those same qualities, and is sure to be a tune you’ll play on repeat while sipping an ice cold beer in your yard or on the beach.\n- Leigh Blickley\n“Shape of You” - Ed Sheeran\n“Shape of You” is the type of song that hooks you right from the beginning. As soon as that marimba beat starts, it’s hard to tune it out. It’s a little bit sexier for Sheeran ― it was written with Rihanna in mind, after all ― and it’s definitely not as deep or romantic as “Thinking Out Loud,” but it sure is catchy and it’s probably not going anywhere for the next few months.\n- Julia Brucculieri\n“Most Girls” - Hailee Steinfeld\nI think everyone was a little nervous, upon hearing the name of this single, that it would be another addition to the all-too-familiar narrative of women tearing down other women. “Au contraire,” says Hailee Steinfeld (but not literally), blessing us plebes with a thoroughly danceable track about feeling “good in your own skin.” Whether you’re rocking out in tiny dresses or sweatpants, Ms. Steinfeld salutes you.\n- Jill Capewell\n“Passionfruit” - Drake\nAdmittedly, Drake won’t be the song of the summer contender most likely to inspire top-of-your-lungs sing-alongs; his newest single, “Passionfruit” (with Zoë Kravitz chiming in on the vocals!) is more laid back than that. It’s quintessential Drake: a super-sincere breakup anthem that’ll get stuck in your head for days. Paramore thought it was catchy, anyway; the group performed a cover that takes it up a notch, but doesn’t manner to capture the expressive, beachy vibes of the original, which made it to No. 8 on Billboard Hot 100.\n- Maddie Crum\n“Human” - Rag ‘n’ Bone Man\nOK, so this isn’t necessarily your typical song of the summer, but it’s a great track nonetheless. Released in 2016, “Human” has only recently made its way onto the U.S. charts. It has a solid hook with a raw sound ― backed by excellent production ― and topped off with Rag ‘n’ Bone Man’s powerful voice. “Human” is a song that’s here to stay, and it comes without any major bells and whistles. And that’s refreshing. We’re only human after all, right?\n- Lauren Moraski\n“Stay” - Alessia Cara + Zedd\nThere are a few reasons this track is a strong contender for Song of the Summer. First, it features Alessia Cara, who’s been on the rise since her anti-party anthem “Here” was released in 2015. Second, it was produced by Zedd, who’s pretty much everywhere these days, churning out bops like “I Want You to Know” and “Starving.” Finally, it’s got that EDM-infused sound that appeals to the masses (but, thankfully, isn’t by The Chainsmokers) and it’s catchy as hell. During a recent trip, I also heard it on the radio about a hundred times in the span of three days. If that doesn’t scream Song of Summer, I don’t know what does.\n- Julia Brucculieri\n“Malibu” - Miley Cyrus\nGather ‘round and let’s talk about Miley Cyrus’ latest reinvention for a hot sec, if only because my personal summer anthem, Carly Rae Jepsen’s iconic “Cut to the Feeling,” has already been covered here. Since we last truly heard from Cyrus, with 2013’s “Bangerz” album that produced “Wrecking Ball,” she has become the human iteration of a grassy church picnic day in July. In other words, something we might call “pleasant, if slightly unsettling.” Or, as The New Yorker characterized it, “creepy.” In any case, Cyrus’ new safe-for-work schtick, an apparent product of her impending marriage to one of the Hemsworth clan, has produced a bouncy little tune, “Malibu,” in which the singer comes off like a more gravelly Bethany Cosentino circa 2010. Fittingly, for Song of the Summer consideration, it is about the beach. And California. A beach in California, even. In her breezily simple lyrics, Cyrus admires the sky, the water and the fish, observing the heat and graciously sparing us deeper thoughts about “what I can’t understand.” If you turn on the radio this summer, you will hear “Malibu” within the hour, but it’s not so bad.\n- Sara Boboltz\n“Don’t Take the Money” - Bleachers\nJack Antonoff, who’s been behind some of your fave pop jams from “1989” and the more recent “Melodrama,” recently put forth his own full-length. The pretty OK sophomore effort “Gone Now” doesn’t quite hit all the high notes, nor can it successfully soundtrack a pool party on its own — but Antonoff’s lead single, “Don’t Take the Money,” surely can bolster a party playlist in the summer months. Co-written with Lorde, the song is peppy as all get out, and will make you feel like the hot season might never end while pumping it through your earbuds.\n- Jill Capewell\n“Feels” - Calvin Harris, ft. Pharrell Williams, Katy Perry & Big Sean\nThis new Calvin Harris song sure does scream summer. It has a beachy and summery vibe that makes you just want to sit back and chill by the pool ― and maybe bop around a bit, too. On top of that, “Feels” features an all-star lineup. This single may be a late contender, but seeing as how summer is only now upon us, perhaps the timing is just right. Does it give you all the feels?}}
{{VANCOUVER — Concerns about the presence of hypodermic needles at a Vancouver park have prompted daily cleanup of two playgrounds and the grounds of a nearby school.\nMayor Gregor Robertson says the city, park board, the health authority and the school board are ramping up efforts to keep Andy Livingstone Park safe for children and all residents.\nRobertson says in a release that anyone who sees a discarded needle in a park or on the street should report it to the Needle Van Hotline.\nHe says managing discarded needles has become a significant challenge in the midst of an overdose crisis in the city and across the province.\nThe city says that as of last week, park board staff have been stationed at Andy Livingstone Park daily from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m., and police are also expected to increase patrols.}}
{{The group features Michael "Jag" Jagmin of A Skylit Drive fame and Of Mice & Men's Jonathan Kintz who had previously worked together in the band Odd Project.\nJag had this to say about their very first song, "It's a statement that calls attention to the atrocious downward spiral our nation has put itself in. The lack of empathy and understanding amongst Americans has hit a disgusting low. People are quicker to attack those with opposing views and ideas instead of embracing what makes us all great, and that is that we are all in fact different." Listen to the track - here.}}
{{The government was unable to locate nearly 1,500 children last month. Tens of thousands are separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border each year.\nMelania Trump, the First Lady of the United States, revealed her official platform this month. Melania’s platform for children, dubbed “Be Best,” is, according to CNN, a comprehensive program meant to focus on fighting opioid abuse, positivity on social media, and well-being.\nSeparating children from their parents, however, is most definitely not a “Be Best” policy, according to Ted Lieu, a Democrat currently serving as the U.S. Representative for California’s 33rd congressional district.\nMr. Lieu took to Twitter to launch an attack on the first lady, criticizing her and her husband’s administration’s immigration policies in one fell swoop.\n“No one can take your ‘Be Best’ children’s agenda seriously when your husband’s policy rips kids from their parents and loses track of their children,” Lieu tweeted.\nDear @FLOTUS: Separating toddlers from parents is definitely not a #BeBest policy. Are you going to do anything about it? No one can take your #BeBest children's agenda seriously when your husband's policy rips kids from their parents and loses track of the children. https://t.co/IQTSrvTVP4 — Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) May 26, 2018\nAccording to the Huffington Post, tens of thousands of children are separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border each year. The government was unable to locate nearly 1,500 children last month, according to Health and Human Services, demonstrating the repercussions of the strict government system caring for minors traveling to the U.S.\nDonald Trump’s administration is, according to HuffPo, stretching the already stern system even further. As of this month, Donald Trump’s administration is adhering to the rules of a new policy referring prosecution of anyone who crosses the border illegally.\nThese newly-implemented changes send adult immigrants to jails run by the U.S. Marshals Services. Their children, separated from parents, end up in the same agency minors who come to the United States on their own, without parents, wind up in. Oftentimes, data shows, once the system swallows their children up, parents are unable to locate them.\nAndrew Harnik / AP Images\nAs White House chief of staff John Kelly said, once separated from their parents, the children “will be taken care of — put into foster care or whatever.” By this, according to HuffPo, Kelly is referring to the Office of Refugee Resettlement. Part of the Department of Health and Human Services, the office is in charge of taking custody of children, who by law may not be immediately deported, but are apprehended at the border.\nThe First Lady’s “Be Best” platform, which aims to help children is, according to Ted Lieu, in direct collision with the current administration’s policies, but Lieu is not the only person to criticize Trump’s immigration policies. Famous journalist and Pulitzer Prize winner, Glenn Greenwald, described what’s been happening as “vile and unforgivable.”\nThis is vile and unforgivable. No matter one's views on immigration policy, what kind of conscience allows a person to defend the separation of parents from their young children? Great @chrislhayes report: https://t.co/bZwUOKgogs — Glenn Greenwald (@ggreenwald) May 26, 2018\nCaught in the crossfire between the public, her own platform, and her husband’s immigration policies, Melania Trump has been a target of criticism, not just by Ted Lieu, but by the media as well. Analyzing the First Lady’s official platform, the New Yorker cited its “childlike strangeness,” writing that, while officially presenting her campaign, Melania sounded like “an actor reading from a script that she didn’t quite understand.”}}
{{By Sebastien Malo\nNEW YORK, June 20 (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - U.S. coffee chain Starbucks Corp said Tuesday it will hire 2,500 refugees in Europe as part of a wider worldwide hiring plan, months after the policy prompted a backlash from some customers.\nThe world's largest coffee chain said it would hire the refugees at its European stores starting in eight countries over the next five years and had already started recruitment.\nThe move is part of the Seattle-based company's plan, unveiled in January, to add 10,000 refugees in 75 countries to its workforce.\nThe company faced backlash soon after, with several people using the hashtag #BoycottStarbucks on social media to urge customers to stay away from its stores.\nBut there appeared to be no similar reaction on Tuesday with only a handful of people on Twitter voicing their disapproval or support of the Europe hires.\nStarbucks will roll out the initiative in Britain, France, Austria, Switzerland, Spain, Portugal, Germany and the Netherlands.\nThe refugees will represent about 8 percent of more than 30,000 people currently employed by Starbucks in Europe, data provided by the company showed.\nA wave of refugee and migrants landing on Europe's shores in recent years has contributed to a rise of populist nationalist movements.\nSome 1.7 million refugees and migrants have arrived in the European Union since 2014.\nRefugees have come in large part from war-torn Syria and Iraq as well as Afghanistan and African countries including Eritrea, according to the U.N. refugee agency.\nStarbucks' commitment was "proving that businesses like ours can use its scale to make a positive impact in people's lives," said Martin Brok, president of Starbucks Europe, Middle East and Africa in a statement.\nEarlier this year, Starbucks said that its global hiring plan also included employing at least 1,000 refugees over the next five years in Canada.\nOther U.S. companies have taken a pro-refugee stance after the administration of former U.S. President Barack Obama called on the private sector to assist refugees.\nThey include Accenture, Airbnb, Chobani, Coursera, Goldman Sachs, Google, HP, IBM, JPMorgan Chase & Co, and LinkedIn.\nAnd more than 100 companies, including most of high-tech's biggest names, joined a legal brief opposing a January executive order by current U.S. President Donald Trump to temporarily put a hold on allowing refugees into the United States.\nThe temporary ban has since been stayed in court. (Reporting by Sebastien Malo @sebastienmalo, Editing by Ros Russell; Please credit the Thomson Reuters Foundation, the charitable arm of Thomson Reuters, that covers humanitarian news, women's rights, trafficking, property rights, climate change and resilience. Visit http://news.trust.org)}}
{{Get Scotland Now weekly updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nWhen music photographer Danny North swapped the world of rock’n’roll for\nthe serenity of a remote Hebridean island, he had no idea it would change his life.\nThe snapper, who has shot everyone from U2 and the Foo Fighters to Iron Maiden and The Killers, had had enough of life in the fast lane.\nInstead, he joined the slow lane. The very slow lane as he turned his lens on the tiny isle of Eigg.\nHere Danny gives us an insight into his portraits and the characters behind them.\nMaggie Carr\n(Image: Danny North)\nLittle Maggie – as she is known by everyone on the island – is the brilliant eight-year-old daughter of sheep farmers George Carr and Saira Renny.\nShe is a force of nature and many of my best photos feature her enjoying island life.\nIt was Maggie who inspired the name of the exhibition – As I Found Her – as she was so full of energy and every picture I took of her just sang.\nMy absolute favourite is this one, taken in her mum and dad’s poly tunnel where they grow all their veg.\nShe was just sitting there on the back of an old pink armchair eating broad beans from their pods. This is one of the pictures now hung in the National Portrait Gallery.\nSaira Renny\n(Image: Danny North)\nThis is Maggie’s mum and she helps partner George raise sheep at Laig Farm in Cleadale.\nGeorge is Eigg-born and Saira arrived 10 years ago and never left.\nShe is very hands on in the rearing of the lambs and another of Eigg’s strong women. One of Eigg’s old Gaelic names is “the Island of the Powerful Women” and I found that to be very true.\nSaira, George and Maggie welcomed me into their home each time I went and they have become friends.\nDonna McCulloch\n(Image: Danny North)\nDonna is the refuse collector on the island and helped me by pinpointing where everyone lived on a map.\nShe is a fierce and fantastic lady and I photographed her just as I found her in her shed.\nShe visited Eigg in June 1997. After 24 hours on the island, she was so enchanted she decided to make it her home and has been there ever since.\nDonna plays the two regular passenger boats on and off the island every day throughout the summer.\nShe had me in tears when she piped my friends and I off Eigg after the exhibition.\nMaggie Fyffe\n(Image: Danny North)\nOne of Eigg’s strong and independent women, Maggie was one of the architects of the £1.5million community buy-out in 1997.\nShe is an authority on all things Eigg and is chair of the island’s Heritage Trust. Without Maggie and her husband Wes’s support the project would never have got off the ground.\nBefore I headed north, Maggie put my project to the islanders at a meeting. She was the first person I met when I arrived on Eigg and without her I would have been lost.\nShe and Wes were hippies in the 60s and they have more than a few stories to tell. They saw the world but made Eigg their home.\nCelia Bull\n(Image: Danny North)\nCelia is an experienced skipper, climber and crofter, who runs a sailing adventure company called Selkie Explorers, which takes folk on trips round the islands aboard the 15m sailing yacht Selkie.\nCelia, who has sailed all over the\nworld, also took her baby son Dylan on expeditions. When he was three, she found and bought Selkie in Croatia.\nSelkie became their home, and they worked their way back to the UK and up to the Isle of Eigg.\nI pictured Celia on her beloved yacht and Dylan in an old caravan on their croft. This is another of my favourite shots as we had been out walking and he had just nipped inside to get a toy boat.\nMagi The Wanderer\n(Image: Danny North)\nI met Magi towards the end of my first visit to Eigg.\nHe doesn’t live there but felt he had to make a pilgrimage to the isle and visit the Massacre Cave to pay respects to the ancestors that died there. He slept in the cave for one night, then I’m not sure where he slept.\nAlthough, he is not a resident, his nature and spirit were very Eigg. He’s a mystic and travels across Scotland spreading the magic of love.\nHe sang for me sporadically throughout our conversation – he smelt of patchouli oil and many camp fires. I really liked the guy. Wish I knew where he was now. Last I heard he was travelling east to compose music with some friends.\nMore used to the adrenaline-fuelled nature of the music industry, Danny, 42 became instantly enchanted by the idyllic community-owned island and its colourful inhabitants. For the first time in his life, the dad-of-one, who travels all over the globe photographing the biggest bands for music magazines including NME and Download, felt like he belonged.\nAs a thank you to the islanders, Danny pulled together his candid images into an exhibition entitled “As I Found Her: A Portrait of Eigg” to mark the 20th anniversary of the community’s island buyout back in June.\nThe lensman, whose photos are now on show at the National Portrait Gallery in London as part of the Taylor Wessing Portrait Prize, admits his time on Eigg has given him a new and brighter outlook on life.\nHe said: “I wanted to paint a picture of Eigg’s tight-knit community and the sense of belonging that radiates from this.\n“It’s a story told through portraits shot both inside islanders’ homes and in the sweeping, expansive landscape.\n“But there is also, in the background, a much broader narrative about what it might mean to live on an island – any island – away from the mainland, and to be at the mercy of nature and perhaps even the community itself.”\nDanny, who grew up in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, added: “The project is also hugely personal in that it’s about my own desire to belong somewhere, and the joy I felt when I discovered Eigg.\n“As the island opened up to me, I opened up to it, and I found myself peeling back the layers of this extraordinary place.\n“I visited Eigg four times from summer 2016 to finally returning in June of 2017 to exhibit the project in the village hall, marking the 20th anniversary of the community’s island buyout.”\nDanny, who lives in Greenwich, London, with his photographer partner Jenna, 33, wanted to make sure the island’s 105 inhabitants were the first people to see the images and was delighted by their reaction. He said: “In many ways, the portraits are my gift to them for taking me into their homes, feeding and watering me inviting me to be their friends.\n“Seeing their reaction to the exhibition was profound and deeply moving. All the pictures were displayed in the village hall and on the very first day more than 80 per cent of the island had come past to see. There was laughter, discussions and tears of joy.\n“I’ve never felt so amazing in all my life.”}}
{{Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nRemember hits like ‘Alright’ and ‘Fine Time’ by 90s band Cast?\nOr ‘Female of the Species’ and the ‘Ballad of Tom Jones’ by indie outfit Space?\nWell these hits, and more from the two famous bands, are to be belted out to crowds on a coastline at the Seaton Rock music festival next month.\nThe music extravaganza is being held in Seaton Carew, Hartlepool , just off The Front in the coach car park, once home to a fairground.\nBut replacing the helter skelter and rollercoasters of bygone years will be stages to host appearances from the aforementioned Cast and Space, as well as a special guest appearances from singer Carter - made famous on 2017’s The Voice, and Irish quartet, The Strypes.\nThere will also be a line up of local bands including Middlesbrough’s King Mojo, The Endeavours, Dig The Old Breed, and The White Negroes, from Hartlepool, Central Parade, from Shildon, and Fire Lady Luck, from Sunderland.\nThe festival is taking place on Saturday, July 1, with gates opening at 11am, and the event finishing a 10pm.\nTickets can be purchased at www.SeatonRock.com , or from www.ticketsource.co.uk/date/344984}}
{{Marijuana News TodayHardly coming as a surprise, the marijuana news today brings a long-awaited conclusion to the legislative journey of Bill C-45 in Canada, making marijuana officially on the path to legalization in Canada.Like I've said for many months, this was an inevitable result, with marijuana legalization in Canada being more a matter of "when'"rather than "if." Still, with the Senate's acquiescence to the House's bill, we have finally removed the final roadblock to marijuana legalization in Canada, and now there are no further potential delays on the horizon."It is a step in the right direction and what we now need to do is to insure as we move forward.\nDen vollständigen Artikel lesen ...}}
{{Rachel Kelly, Special to CTVNews.ca\nCanadians are piling toys outside the immigration minister’s constituency office in protest of the Safe Third Country Agreement between Canada and the United States.\nOn Wednesday, which marked World Refugee Day, a pile of toys and protest signs appeared on the lawn of Immigration Minister Ahmed Hussen’s constituency office in Toronto.\nIn light of the Trump administration’s “zero-tolerance” immigration policy, protestors are calling on Hussen and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to scrap the Safe Third Country Agreement, which allows Canada to deny refugees asylum if they are crossing from the U.S.\nThe agreement was established in 2002 as a way for both countries to better manage the flow of refugee claims. It was founded on the ‘safe third country’ principle, under which a country may turn down a refugee application if the applicant has already been granted asylum by another country. Both the U.S. and Canada are permitted to deny refugees asylum if they are entering from the other country.\nThe U.S. Department of Justice has adopted a zero-tolerance policy in which anyone caught entering the U.S. illegally is criminally prosecuted. Children of these migrants are separated and detained. Recent reports suggest more than 2,000 children have been separated from their parents and are being held in shelters.\nCritics argue that this policy means the U.S. is no longer safe for refugees and are calling for Canada to allow refugees coming across theU.S. border to stay.\nAfter initially saying that he didn’t want to “play politics” over the U.S. immigration policy, Trudeau told reporters Wednesday that separating child migrants from their parents is “wrong” and “unacceptable.”\n“I cannot imagine what the families are going through,” Trudeau said. “This is not the way we do things in Canada.”\nThefederal government has not said how it plans to treat refugees coming from the U.S. going forward.\nThis is the second #ToyPileofShame this month. On June 8, a similar pile of signs and toys was mounted outside the U.S. Consulate buildingin Toronto.\nWhat it looks like in front of @HonAhmedHussen ‘s office right now. Scrap the Safe Third Country Agreement #WorldRefugeeDay2018 Canada should stop cooperating with the US - it is NOT SAFE for refugees there. #toypileofshame #toystorm pic.twitter.com/0sX1s7AFcq — Karen Chen (@ckaren15) June 20, 2018\nOur Liberal government refuses stand for human rights, preferring instead to stroke Trump's ego via their silence. The Liberals should follow the NDP's lead in directly challenging Trump's #ChildrenInCages policy and cancelling the safe third country agreement #toypileofshame — Christo Aivalis (@christoaivalis) June 20, 2018}}
{{Seth Macfarlane admits it's ''very, very hard'' to transition from acting into being a musician.\nThe Hollywood star has successfully made the switch from the movie business into the music industry, and he has even received a Grammy Award nomination for his fourth studio album, 'In Full Swing' - but Seth insists it's not been an easy jump to make.\nHe shared: ''There's something about people's appreciation of the music they like that's particularly passionate.\n''It's like when people are obsessive about sports teams that they like. People are obsessive about musicians that they like. So if you come into that world from a different profession, it's oftentimes greeted with folded arms and a scowl.''\nIn fact, Seth claimed it's much easier to move from music into acting rather than going in the opposite direction.\nHe pointed to rapper-turned-actor Will Smith as someone whose career path supports his point.\nThe 44-year-old star told Billboard: ''For that reason, you see a lot of people, like Will Smith, who've gone from music to acting and been very successful at it. And the other way around, I can't think of one person. I mean, it's a very, very hard thing.''\nSeth has enjoyed incredible success through his cartoon creations 'Family Guy', 'American Dad!' and 'The Cleveland Show' - but he previously admitted he didn't wish to restrict himself to one genre of entertainment.\nThe Emmy-winning star revealed he was keen to try his hand at different things, ''no matter what it may be''.\nHe shared: ''I'm somebody who would be pretty restless if I confined myself to one discipline.''}}
{{Native Inuit people living in the Canadian Arctic have traditionally survived by hunting whales, seals and polar bears.\nBut as their way of life has changed dramatically, some have turned to art to make a living.\nAl Jazeera's Daniel Lak visited the community of Joe Haven - where sculptures, paintings and tapestries are telling the world about their unique frozen landscape.}}
{{Here’s your daily dose of sweetness:\nJohn “Bud” Minerich, 93, died on Monday and you couldn’t ask for a more perfect end than the one described in today’s Austin Daily Herald.\nHis father, John, died when Bud was only 14 years old, but he remembers him playing Croatian music. Some time ago, he found some music his father had written.\n“I know he taught other people how to play; but where he learned to play, and how he learned to write music, I just don’t know,” he told the Herald last month.\nHis dad was a coal miner in Pennsylvania and then worked in the mills of Ohio; that’s not generally the pedigree of a composer.\nEarlier this month, his son, Phil, arranged to have Bud’s dad’s music played during the Croatian Cultural Society of Minnesota’s Christmas party.\nHe said it was more than he ever expected.\nHe developed some pneumonia last week and it looked like he had it beat when he suffered a massive heart attack.\nHis son says the title of his grandfather’s composition — Go Forward, Marching — is pretty relevant now.\n“Keep going forward — that was like my dad. He would say we’re on a path and it is what it is. Whatever happens, you just keep moving on,” Phil told the Herald.}}
{{Italian clothing firm United Colors of Benetton has drawn flak for its latest advertisement campaign featuring pictures of migrants rescued from the Mediterranean Sea.\nThe Franco-German charity, SOS Mediterranee, that carried out the rescue lashed out at Benetton for exploiting a "human tragedy."\n"SOS Mediterranee fully dissociates itself from this campaign which displays a picture taken while our teams were rescuing people in distress at sea on June 9," it said on Twitter Tuesday.\nThe "dignity of survivors must be respected at all times," said SOS Mediterannee. "The human tragedy at stake in the Mediterranean must never be used for any commercial purposes."\nThe NGO added that it does not give its consent for any commercial use of its pictures and condemned the photographer's "personal initiative" to provide the picture.\nBenetton published two publicity photographs on its Twitter account featuring migrants, one credited to SOS Mediterannee and another to the Italian news agency ANSA. Both the pictures displayed the company's name at the bottom.\nReacting to Benetton's campaign, Italian Interior Minister Matteo Salvini tweeted: "Am I the only one to find this loathsome?"\nSalvini, the head of Italy's ruling far-right League party, had denied permission to SOS Mediterranee's ship carrying the rescued migrants to dock at Italy's ports\nAquarius — the ship which rescued more than 600 migrants — was eventually permitted to dock at Valencia in Spain last week.\nBenetton has been criticized in the past for its controversial ad campaigns, including those featuring an AIDS patient, a black woman breastfeeding a white child and former Pope Benedict kissing a senior Egyptian imam.\nap/rc (AFP)\nEach evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.}}
{{OTTAWA – Labour Minister MaryAnn Mihychuk said Canada Post and the Canadian Union of Postal Workers will begin working with a special mediator Friday morning in the face of a union threat of job action.\n“In an attempt to push the two parties, help them facilitate a mediated, negotiated settlement, we’ve got a special mediator coming in who will start working with both parties tomorrow morning,” Mihychuk said Thursday evening in Saguenay, Que., where she was attending the Liberal summer caucus retreat.\n“We hope to have significant resolution by Sunday,” Mihychuk said.\nThe union representing nearly 51,000 employees issued a 72-hour notice of job action Thursday, accusing the Crown corporation of forcing a labour dispute.\nIt was not immediately clear whether the action would result in a disruption of mail and parcel deliveries, something that — if it does happen — could come as early as next week.\nThe union said the notice, delivered to management just hours before a strike mandate was set to expire, “listed anticipated job actions” but stopped short of a full-blown walkout. The union hasn’t said exactly what actions it was planning.\nThe notice puts postal carriers in a legal strike position by Aug. 28.\nIn a statement, CUPW national president Mike Palecek said Canada Post forced the union’s hand by refusing to accept a request from the federal labour minister to continue negotiations under a 24-hour deadline extension with the help of a special mediator.\n“This was an eleventh-hour intervention from the government to avoid a dispute and of course we said, ‘Yes,'” said Palecek.\n“From the outset, our goal has been a negotiated collective agreement without service disruptions. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for Canada Post, whose president and CEO Deepak Chopra refused the minister’s request.”\nBut a spokesman for the agency said that was not the case.\n“Canada Post will fully co-operate in the (mediation) process,” Jon Hamilton said in an email.\n“We hope that the assistance of a neutral third party will help both parties address the real challenges facing the postal service caused by declining mail volumes and increasing pension obligations.”\nThe union’s strike mandate was set to expire at midnight.\nHad it expired, Canada Post employees would likely have had to vote to approve another mandate, a costly process that could take up to two months to complete.\nCUPW had asked the agency to allow an extension of the mandate, a request that was refused as “inappropriate.”\nThe two sides had been in sometimes bitter negotiations for more than nine months but were still far apart on key issues, including pay equity for rural carriers and proposed changes to the Canada Post pension plan, despite days of intensive talks that carried through last weekend.\nCUPW offered a glimmer of hope Thursday that a strike could be averted, saying it’s still prepared to talk.\n“We are still willing to withdraw our notice if Canada Post agrees to an extension,” said Palecek.\nThe Crown corporation also has the option to lock out workers.\nA pay equity issue pitting rural and urban carriers against each other and a proposed move from a defined benefit pension plan to a defined contribution plan for new employees are the main stumbling blocks in the dispute.\nThe union claims rural postal workers earn, on average, nearly 30 per cent less than city carriers.\nOther issues revolve around part-time and temporary work, staffing improvements and the possible closure of nearly 500 retail postal outlets that could result in the elimination of up to 1,200 full-time jobs that are currently protected.\nAlthough Mihychuk hoped the latest effort would bring results over the weekend, she cautioned that it might not work.\n“Canadians need to get prepared for a potential work stoppage,” she said.\n“I think that’s the reality.”\nWith files from Joanna Smith in Saguenay, Que.}}
{{Please enable Javascript to watch this video\nKim Kardashian West weighed in on the controversial Trump administration policy of separating immigrant children from their families at the border, calling it "heartbreaking."\nSam Rubin reports for the KTLA 5 Morning News on June 20, 2018.}}
{{The video will start in 8 Cancel\nGet daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nA naked pedestrian has left shoppers reeling after they were spotted walking down Glastonbury High Street.\nIt is not know if the male nudist was heading to the world famous music festival or not but the footage certainly caused a stir online.\nFacebook user Steve Diment shared the footage online shot from the Somerset town with the caption: "No words needed".\nThe footage has already been viewed more than 13,000 times after it was posted on Tuesday afternoon.\nOne person commented: "[Glastonbury] isn't weird... just some of the people that pass through it are weird."\nKelly Griffiths joked: "He's got a lush tan."\nAnd Joe Parkinson wrote: "Don't blame him in this heat."\nIt comes two years after a nude dog walker was spotted on a Cornish beach as parts of the country basked in an early summer heatwave.\nAnd a string of naked men were spotted being tied to trees in Prime Minister Theresa May's constituency last year.\nThe video comes on the day people start to make their way to Glastonbury Festival, at Worthy Farm nearby.\nThose with campervans and caravans could access the site today. Tomorrow is expected to be the busiest day for traffic.}}
{{City health leaders are deathly afraid of what might happen at the big electronic dance music festival in the Glebe this weekend, knowing there’s a batch of tainted street drugs on the streets of Canada’s capital.\nThe Ottawa Public Health board meeting on Monday night exposed a nervous tension days before the first DJ takes the stage during the Escapade festival at Lansdowne Park on Saturday and Sunday.\nThe feeling was best illustrated by Atul Kapur, an emergency doctor and member of the health board.\nKapur said he’s fortunate not to be working in the emergency department this weekend since the music festival is “a red flag day” for the hospital, Kapur told his board colleagues.\nThe worry has been compounded by a supply of drugs on Ottawa streets that includes fentanyl, which has been part of the deadly “opioid crisis” gripping Canadian cities.\nThat’s not lost on festival organizers.\n“With the information that’s coming out, there’s definitely a heightened awareness,” Ali Shafaee, director of partnerships for the company that promotes Escapade, said in an interview Tuesday as he prepared for the event.\nShafaee said the festival has been working closely with the health unit and paramedics on messages for ticket-holders, who will receive information kits on Wednesday. Social media messaging will ramp up Thursday, he said.\nShafaee said attendees will be reminded to keep hydrated throughout the weekend and not leave their friends. There will be four water stations at the site.\nSecurity will try to catch any prohibited items at the site entrance through bag checks and pat downs.\nThere will be two triage areas at the festival for medical issues, Shafaee said. A team of 12 safety patrollers hired by the festival will roam the grounds.\nSki patrollers, brought in for extra support, will be carrying the anti-overdose medication naloxone. Health unit teams will be there, too. All security and health staff are being told to keep their eyes on the ground to watch for anyone overdosing.\nAt the health board meeting, Coun. Mark Taylor said he fears “we’re going to wind up with some tragedies coming out of this weekend” and he wanted to make sure the health unit is working with Escapade on overdose prevention measures.\n“I’ve got nothing against Escapade as a music festival itself, but generally speaking it has historically shown a very high number of drug-related incidents,” Taylor said.\nThe health unit has been working with Escapade to make sure there’s free water and that security workers know how to spot overdoses. Health officials have also been working with the paramedic service to confirm there will be enough resources at the festival.\nThe big push lately has been to make sure ticket-holders have overdose prevention information in advance.\nLike with any event this size, there will be an increased police presence around the festival. An Ottawa police spokesman said large events always have paid-duty officers to complement private security.\nThere have been calls to increase the safety at music festivals, knowing there’s really no way to stop people from taking drugs. One idea is to make available drug testing devices so people know what they’re ingesting.\nEscapade isn’t making drug testing kits available. Shafaee said no one has asked for the kits to be at the site.\nThe health unit doesn’t have a good way of quickly finding out what kind of substances are packed into a piece of dope. Board members heard it takes cops about a month to get results from Health Canada on drugs they seize. The best intelligence for health officials has been from people using the drugs, plus the recorded visits to hospitals.\n“You just need to assume your drugs are cut with fentanyl,” said Andrew Hendriks, the health unit’s manager of clinical programs.\nWith more fentanyl showing up in Ottawa’s drug scene, the city and health unit have dedicated resources to get the word out about the life-threatening danger.\nIsra Levy, the city’s medical officer of health, said the health unit learns of about two or four overdoses each day, on average. A spike might happen when there’s an average of 10 or 11 cases once a month. It’s likely attributed to a “bad supply” of drugs in the city, Levy said.\nLevy estimates the overdose prevention work this year, including the expanded availability of naloxone, has prevented a minimum of two deaths each month.\nEscapade is the first large music festival on the summer’s concert calendar.\nCoun. David Chernushenko’s ward will play host to Escapade.\nHe’s gobsmacked by what’s happening – that people are willing to take mystery drugs, and that it’s now necessary to have health professionals at music festivals to prevent people from dying.\n“We’ve come a long way from having a good time at a party,” Chernushenko said.\njwilling@postmedia.com\ntwitter.com/JonathanWilling}}
{{Get what's on updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email\nLars Vogt, music director of Royal Northern Sinfonia , is in contention for a prestigious award.\nHe is one of 10 people shortlisted for the Artist of the Year prize at the annual Gramophone Classical Music Awards.\nThe awards, launched in 1977, are now regarded as the ‘Oscars’ of the classical music world.\nIn most of the categories the winners are decided by a panel of critics but the Artist of the Year category is decided by a public vote.\nClearly the musicians of Royal Northern Sinfonia and staff at Sage Gateshead , where the orchestra is based, would like us to vote for their man.\nHe has been on top form since joining the North East orchestra, a celebrated concert pianist who also conducts from the piano stool.\nRecently the orchestra returned from a tour of China and South Korea to complete the 2016-17 classical season at Sage Gateshead which recorded a 12% increase in the audience over the season.\nOther international trips are in the pipeline during the coming months.\nDuring the recent season Lars and the orchestra performed and recorded all five of Beethoven’s piano concertos as part of a special project which received popular and critical acclaim.\nThe first of three resulting CD releases was chosen by Classic FM as its album of the week.\nThe second release is due out in the autumn and the third in spring next year.\nLooking ahead, on September 20 you can see Lars give his first solo recital in Sage One (Bach’s Goldberg Variations) as the first concert in a new series called Piano Greats.\nAlso shortlisted for Gramophone’s Artist of the Year is Imogen Cooper who will also apear in the Sage’s Piano Greats series, performing Beethoven’s Diabelli Variations on May 16 next year.\nThe winner of Artist of the Year will be announced at the Gramophone Awards 2017 ceremony on September 13.\nIn the meantime, online voting has opened and remains open until Monday, July 31.\nYou can cast your vote at http://www.gramophone.co.uk/classical-music-news/vote-for-the-gramophone-artist-of-the-year-2017 .\nDetails of the 2017-18 classical music season at Sage Gateshead can be found at www.classicalseason.com}}
{{The life-sized figures of Mary and Joseph were to be expected. What drew the longest gaze from visitors to the Nativity scene on St. Peter’s Square this Christmas was the strange pile of crushed masonry in front of the stable.\nThe shattered stonework came from the cathedral in the central Italian town of Norcia and was retrieved after an earthquake struck Oct. 30 and wrecked the church.\nA metal cross toppled from the peak of the cathedral that day. Placed next to the stones, it is a reminder not only of Norcia’s fate, but also of the many tremors that shook central Italy this year and claimed hundreds of lives.\nWhen the church in Norcia is rebuilt, the cross will be placed back on the roof.\n“The cross is a beautiful addition to the Nativity scene since it reminds us that we must never forget what happened in the mountains this year,” said Franco Montuschi, 69, a Roman who was visiting the scene.\nIf the display summed up a year of shocks, it also reflected Pope Francis’ talent for serving up strong symbols of the world’s troubles.\nThis Nativity was a twist on the usual tableau of the birth of Jesus. Designed by an artist from Malta and depicting village life on the Mediterranean island, it included fishermen and a typical Maltese fishing boat.\nInaugurating the scene this month, Francis said the boat was a reminder of the migrants who have risked their lives sailing across the Mediterranean to Europe from north Africa this year.\nWhile more than 175,000 people made it across by December, 5,000 or so others died trying. It was the deadliest year for migrant crossings.\n“The painful experience of these brothers and sisters reminds us of that baby Jesus, who could not find shelter, was born in a stable in Bethlehem and was later brought to Egypt to escape Herod’s threat,” the pope said.\nAround the edge of the square, homeless people drawn to the Vatican by Francis’ offer of free haircuts and hot showers curled up against the cold in cardboard boxes. Tourists heading for the Nativity scene stepped gingerly around them.\nBeside the Nativity stood an 82-foot fir tree felled in the Italian Dolomites, lifted onto a truck by an Italian army Chinook helicopter and driven into St. Peter’s Square one night.\nThe tradition of the tree alongside the Nativity scene in St. Peter’s dates to 1982, when Polish Pope John Paul II introduced them.\nIt is no surprise that it took a northern European pope to install a Christmas tree, which is not customary in the Mediterranean. What is curious, however, is that John Paul’s Italian predecessors had never set up a Nativity scene, since Italy goes crazy for them at Christmastime.\nTo understand that passion, a detour inside the Vatican’s walls is needed, beyond the Swiss guards at the gate, around the imposing marble rear of St. Peter’s Basilica and past the gasoline pump outside Francis’ residence.\nBeyond that, close to the Vatican’s police station but before the department store, stands another Nativity scene, created by the Vatican gardeners — the first of many dotted around the gardens of the tiny city state.\nFarther on, toward the retirement cottage of the former pope, Benedict, stands the headquarters of the Vatican’s governorate, which has a staff of 1,911. In the foyer sits an elaborate and enormous Nativity under a glass case.\n“I have seen about a dozen large Nativity scenes set up by the various departments here at the Vatican,” said Giuseppe Puglisi-Alibrandi, the governorate lawyer who helped oversee the construction of the scene in St. Peter’s Square.\n“Here at the governorate for example, the head of the purchasing department has two Nativity scenes in his office,” he said. “But then again, he is from near Naples.”\nFor centuries, artists from the southern city have been turning out intricately sculpted Nativity figures that are prized by collectors.\nFrom a window of the governorate, Puglisi-Alibrandi pointed at a fir tree in the rolling gardens. “That was the first tree that went up in St. Peter’s in 1982,” he said. “It was replanted here after Christmas.”\nThese days, trees come from forests scheduled to be thinned out to protect against fire or disease, he said. “They are trees that are due to be cut down anyway,” he said. After Christmas, the trunks are given to charities to be turned into furniture or toys, and the branches are turned to sawdust and used as fertilizer in the Vatican gardens.\nKington is a special correspondent.\nALSO\n'Heavy cold' keeps Queen Elizabeth II from morning service, the cornerstone of royal family's Christmas celebrations\nPowerful typhoon slams into Philippines\nOp-Ed: What Christmas was like in downtown L.A. in 1954}}
{{Blackpool Music Festival organisers have announced that their main event will be an 11-hour musical extravaganza at the Winter Gardens on Sunday, October 9. The best part? It‘s completely free.\nThe annual event, which has taken place at various venues across the Fylde coast since 2013, is being directed by Stephen Pierre.\nI strongly believe the potential to create and develop an annual Blackpool Music Festival staged at the iconic Winter Gardens is huge\nThe event was founded by Jon Bamborough, but due to his poor health, he’s handed the reigns over to Pierre, who looked after the successful Blackpool Jazz and Blues Festival earlier this year.\nThe festival’s Main Stage event will be held at the Winter Gardens Pavilion and over 11 hours will present 12 contrasting bands from Ska, Blues, Rock, Indie, and Punk.\nManchester band ‘All the King’s Men’ are set to headline and they’ll be joined by a host of other bands from across the North West including The Inciders, The Monster Squad Acoustic , Brother Rabbit, The Empress and The Poly Esters.\nThere will also be a smaller space presenting acoustic offerings of jazz, folk, classical and popular music.\nCreative director Stephen Pierre said: “The interest and demand shown from bands and singer-songwriters has been overwhelming over the past few weeks.\n“I strongly believe the potential to create and develop an annual Blackpool Music Festival staged at the iconic Winter Gardens is huge.”}}
{{By JOHN SEEWER\nAssociated Press\nTOLEDO, Ohio (AP) - More than 100 workers were arrested Tuesday at an Ohio meatpacking plant by federal agents following a yearlong immigration investigation, the second large-scale raid within the state in the past two weeks.\nThe investigation focused on whether the company knowingly hired people who are in the country illegally, Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said.\nThe agency said it also was looking into whether many of the workers were using fraudulent identification belonging to U.S. citizens.\nThe arrests come as the U.S. government steps up its focus on businesses that hire people in the country illegally as part of a broad range of immigration crackdowns under President Donald Trump.\nThe 146 arrests in one of the largest workplace immigration raids in recent years happened at Fresh Mark's meat processing plant in Salem, in northeastern Ohio. Immigration agents and local authorities also carried out search warrants at the company's two other locations in Massillon and its plant in Canton.\nMost of the workers arrested were from Guatemala, said Khaalid Walls, an agency spokesman.\nSeveral of those who were detained were processed and released on Tuesday because they are the sole care providers of children or they have health concerns, Walls said.\nNo criminal charges have been filed against Fresh Mark, but authorities say the investigation is continuing.\nThe company makes bacon, hot dogs, ham and lunch meat for the Sugardale and Superior's brands.\nThe company referred questions to federal authorities, but noted in a statement that Fresh Mark is a member of Immigration and Customs Enforcement's self-policing program that's described as a way for employers to verify workers are in the country legally and to spot fraudulent documents.\nThe agency said members of the program aren't immune from prosecution for workforce compliance violations.\n"Unlawful employment is one of the key magnets drawing illegal aliens across our borders," said Steve Francis, head of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's Homeland Security Investigations unit in Detroit.\nTwo weeks ago, immigration agents arrested 114 people at a garden and landscaping company in northern Ohio. Authorities said they planned to charge workers for crimes including identity theft and tax evasion.\nCopyright 2018 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.}}
{{Hungary plans to build a second fence on its southern border with Serbia that would enable it to keep out any major new wave of migrants, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban said on Friday.\nOrban said the new barrier, to be built alongside the existing one, would strengthen defences to respond if Turkey’s policy on migration changed. If that happened, hundreds of thousands could appear at Hungary’s border, he told public radio.\n“Technical planning is under way to erect a more massive defence system next to the existing line of defence which was built quickly (last year),” Orban said.\nOrban said Hungary had to prepare for the eventuality of a deal between Turkey and the European Union to clamp down on migration into Europe via the Balkans unravelling.\n“Then if it does not work with nice words, we will have to stop them with force, and we will do so,” Orban said.\nA razor-wire fence built along Hungary’s southern border with Serbia and Croatia has sharply reduced flows.\nLast year hundreds of thousands of migrants moved up from the Balkans towards northern Europe. That flow has since been reduced to no more than a steady trickle.\nOrban said Hungary would also boost its police presence to 47,000 from 44,000, of which 3,000 will be constantly deployed on the southern border.\nHe also said it was Europe’s interest to work with Turkey and to agree on the issues that serve Europe’s security.\nUnder the existing deal, Turkey has agreed to help stem the tide of illegal migrants into the bloc in exchange for aid and visa-free travel for Turks. Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan has repeatedly said that European leaders are not living up to their side of the pact.\nLater on Friday, Orban and other prime ministers of Central European EU member states — the Visegrad countries — will meet in Warsaw with German Chancellor Angela Merkel.\nOrban said the task for politicians was to change a decision by the EU to let in migrants and distribute them based on quotas among member states.\n“The question is whether Angela Merkel will be willing to change this flawed Brussels decision together with us. Whether she is willing to fight with us for this, or not, Orban said.”\nHungary will hold a referendum on Oct. 2 on whether to accept any future EU quota system for resettling migrants.}}
{{TORONTO, June 20 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index fell on Tuesday as energy shares dived with oil prices, while Cenovus Energy Inc tumbled after the company announced plans to replace its chief executive.\nCenovus said it will replace Chief Executive Brian Ferguson, who championed an unpopular purchase of western Canadian oil sands assets, though it failed to name a successor, sending its shares tumbling 10.5 percent to C$9.20.\nThe overall energy group fell 3.1 percent, hitting its lowest since April last year, while oil prices slumped following news of increases in supply by several key producers.\nU.S. crude prices were down 3.0 percent at $42.89 a barrel.\nSuncor Energy fell 2.6 percent to C$37.97 and Canadian Natural Resources declined 1.9 percent to C$36.88.\nBank shares, which had rallied on Monday, also lost ground. Toronto-Dominion Bank fell 0.6 percent to C$65.09, while the overall financial services group fell 0.3 percent.\nShares of Home Capital Group Inc climbed 4.6 percent to C$15.47 after the alternative lender said it would sell a portfolio of commercial mortgage assets valued at C$1.2 billion to private equity firm KingSett Capital.\nAt 11:37 a.m. ET (1537 GMT), the Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index fell 103.47 points, or 0.68 percent, to 15,162.57.\nSeven of the index's 10 main groups were lower. Industrials fell 0.5 percent as railroad stocks lost ground, while the materials group, which includes precious and base metals miners and fertilizer companies, also declined 0.5 percent.\nGold futures fell 0.3 percent to $1,240.7 an ounce as the U.S. dollar climbed and copper prices declined 1.3 percent to $5,651 a tonne.\nPlane and train manufacturer Bombardier Inc has signed a $1.14 billion contract to supply passenger trains to the two new operators of Britain's South Western rail franchise. But the company's shares were unchanged at C$2.59.\nCanadian wholesale trade rose more than expected in April, led by the machinery industry, data from Statistics Canada showed. The 1.0 percent increase topped economists' estimates for a gain of 0.5 percent. (Editing by Bernadette Baum)}}
{{Becky G’s new music video “Secrets” is spellbinding! The clip was released on Friday the 13th, a few weeks before Halloween, and it’s both sexy and spooky! It starts off with the Mexican American singer, 22, in a dark room holding a candle and looking around frightened inside a haunted house. The clip feels like a scary movie, with a mysterious little girl appearing in a hallway and zombie-like creatures chasing her.\n“Why are you trying to keep these secrets from me?” she sings as a hulky man chases her. In another scene, the singer and actress wears goth-like makeup and a sultry red dress while bugs crawl all over her. “Skeletons come out of your closet at night,” says another line of the song about deception and betrayal. At the end of the song we see Becky G herself turn into a spirit, watching over her own dead body laying over a pool of blood.\nImage zoom (Photo by Alexander Tamargo/Getty Images)\nHow have her fans reacted to Becky G’s ‘Secrets’? Most seem to dig it!\n“I’m a little scared, but I’m fine!” one joked. “I shouldn’t have watched this before before going to bed,” another follower wrote. “Loved it! Just freaked out from the bugs,” one confessed. “Another demon-like celebrity,” one criticized. “I love your creativity, we have already seen it in your previous videos, but this one surpassed everything, you are beautiful you are the best,” another praised. “Gave me a heart attack but brought me back to life!”, a fan confessed. DISCLAIMER: Don’t watch it by yourself and with the lights turned off!}}
{{(AP) – President Donald Trump has long made immigration a top priority. He has spent recent weeks publicly hammering Congress to crack down on “legal loopholes” he says allow criminals to enter the country illegally.\nBut behind the scenes, Trump has shown little interest in jumping into an intensifying Capitol Hill debate over immigration legislation that many believe is unlikely to ever reach his desk.\nHouse Republicans – from both the right and the center – drive an effort to force votes on immigration proposals. That includes legislation that would provide young “Dreamer” immigrants a path to legal status and beef up border security, but may fall short of funding Trump’s promised wall along the southern border.}}
{{It’s not true that Haim , the L.A.-based band of sisters, never dreamed they’d be on the edge of superstardom—or even that their latest hit, “Want You Back,” would wind up on everybody’s summer-anthem playlist. It’s difficult, in fact, to imagine three people who might have put in more time dreaming about rock ’n’ roll: Este, 31; Danielle, 28; and Alana, 25, aside from being smart and fun and often hilarious, are self-described rock nerds. So the moment they came home from their first world tour two years ago—still riding the wave of the out-of-the-blue success of the their first album, Days Are Gone —they immediately recognized a classic nightmare scenario: songwriter’s block.\n“You’re thinking, Can I still do this?” remembers Danielle. “And you’re looking at a blank sheet of paper.”\n“You hear a lot from other musicians that the muse can leave forever,” says Alana. “And for the first four or five months, it was like——”\n“Like, she is gone!” says Este.\nThen they got a call to write a song for Trainwreck , the Amy Schumer film—and though the song was rejected, they liked what they came up with and were soon writing their second record, Something to Tell You . “I went through my whole life hating homework,” says Este, “and then homework saved me. It really just sparked our inspiration, and everything just kind of flowed.”\nDespite their youth, Haim are journeymen. They began in high school as a family band in the Valley, raised by a Bonnie Raitt–loving mom who grew up playing coffee shops in Philadelphia and a Fleetwood Mac–loving dad who taught them all to play drums—and who probably was as out of breath as his daughters when, in 2014, Stevie Nicks invited the sisters over to her house to hang. (Este and Alana wear the crescent-moon necklace Nicks gave them, but Danielle doesn’t. Instead, she says,“I have a shrine.”)\nTwo summers ago, Taylor Swift recruited them for her 1989 tour—“They are some of the best performers and writers I know,” Swift says—and now their fans include Brie Larson and Jonah Hill, Lana Del Rey and Rashida Jones. Jones, who has taken salsa classes with the band, is very much in awe. “Their sisterhood,” she says, “is no joke.”\nA few months ago, they kicked off the new album by playing Saturday Night Live for the second time, rocking not just chords and bass lines but Balenciaga —Danielle in a shoulder-padded denim jacket, Alana in a bright-pink blouse. Este wore a Tibi shirt the color of the Beatles’ submarine while proudly showing off her “bass face,” which, while it might have surprised newer fans, has long been her trademark—a sign that she’s playing her heart out (in a way that, frankly, doesn’t cause nearly as much commotion for male musicians). “People are like, ‘Wow—this bass face is really intense,’ ” says Alana. “And we’re like, ‘Yeah—because she’s feeling every single note that she’s playing, and she’s getting up there and not being apologetic for who she is.’ My sister’s an amazing bass player.”\nTo use one of Este’s expressions: She alley-ooped it.\nSittings Editor: Sara Moonves.\nHair: Holly Mills; Makeup: Emi Kaneko; Manicure, Rieko Okusa.\nProduced by Travis Kiewel. Photographed at The Sherry-Netherland Hotel.\nSet Design: Nicholas Des Jardins for Mary Howard Studio.}}
{{Yikes! Whitney Houston’s cousin dissed Kanye West for using a photo of the late singer’s drug-covered bathroom for album artwork.\nKanye West, 40, has found himself in hot water yet again. This time around, Whitney Houston‘s cousin Damon Elliot criticized him for using a photo of the late singer’s drug-covered bathroom as the album artwork for Pusha T‘s newest release DAYTONA, which he produced. In an interview with People, Elliot opened up about the rapper’s decision to drop $85,000 on an image depicting Houston’s bathroom filled with drug-covered spoons and drug paraphernalia and finding out abut it through a phone call from his daughter.\n“[She was] frantic. She sent me this picture from the album cover and I immediately got sick to my stomach because it took me right back to six years ago,” Elliot said about finding out about the cover. “I was actually in shock because I’m in the music business,” he continued, adding that he even worked with Kanye on a Keyshia Cole song.\n“I’ve watched the train wreck happening, but I didn’t think he’d go this far in invading someone’s family privacy,” he added, referencing the “Famous” singer’s recent social media debacles. “To do something for a publicity stunt to sell records, it’s absolutely disgusting… It hurt my family and my daughter. It’s petty. It’s tacky.”\nalbum 1 PUSHA T DAYTONA dropping 2mrw pic.twitter.com/M1UPvax5fa — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) May 24, 2018\nElliot also mentioned being confused as to why Kanye would do this since Houston “never did anything to him.” The husband of Kim Kardashian also allegedly didn’t reach out to Elliot before licensing the photo or after the news broke. “I just want him to tell me why he did it,” he said. “What is the creative side of this? What’s the point? It shows no creativity.”\nHouston’s cousin said he wants Kanye to apologize to him, and also promise to change the cover art to something else. He’s also prepared for if or when the Yeezy designer gives him a call. “What were you thinking? Did you think this through? And if you did, why did you do this?” Elliot said about what he wants to tell Kanye. “Because you’re hurting people. It knocked the wind out of me last night. When someone passes, you try to mourn and move on and remember the good times… Why are you going to pay $85,000 to bring something to the forefront?”\nWhile appearing on The Angie Martinez Show on May 23 – two days before his album release – Pusha T, 41, revealed that the “Stronger” hitmaker was the one to make the last-minute changes to the album art. “One a.m., my phone rings. No caller ID. [He says,] ‘Hey, yeah, I think we should change the artwork. And I like this other artwork. And this other artwork is 85 grand,’” he explained, adding that the album was already fine as is and he didn’t want to drop that kind of cash on new artwork. Kanye then allegedly told him: “‘No, this is what people need to see to go along with this music. Imma pay for that.'” It’s unclear whether Kanye paid the National Enquirer, which first published the photo in 2006, or Houston’s sister-in-law Tina Brown for the image.\nHouston was found dead in a bathtub in 2012 at The Beverly Hilton hotel. Her death was ruled an accidental drowning, with heart disease and cocaine use also to blame. Her Aug. 2012 autopsy found that she had marijuana, Xanax, Benadryl, and other medication in her system at the time of her passing.}}
{{On World Refugee Day, the company said it will hire 2,500 refugees by over five years to work in eight European markets: Great Britain, France, Austria, Switzerland, Spain, Portugal, Germany and the Netherlands.\nStarbucks plans to hire 2,500 refugees to work at its coffeeshops in Europe, part of the coffee chain’s commitment to hiring 10,000 refugees worldwide over the next five years.\nThe company said Tuesday — World Refugee Day — it would hire 2,500 refugees by 2022 to work in eight European markets: Great Britain, France, Austria, Switzerland, Spain, Portugal, Germany and the Netherlands.\nIt will partner with International Rescue and other local non-governmental organizations to match refugees with jobs.\nThe company had earlier said it would hire at least 1,000 refugees over the next five years in Canada.\nThe hiring plans are part of a commitment then-CEO Howard Schultz made in January, after President Donald Trump had signed an executive order suspending U.S. entry of all refugees for 120 days and barring Syrian refugees indefinitely. (Schultz stepped down from the CEO position in April. He remains executive chairman of the company.)\nSchultz’s announcement drew support as well as backlash. Some blasted the company for focusing on hiring refugees rather than U.S. veterans — though Starbucks has had in place since 2013 a commitment to hiring 10,000 U.S. veterans and military spouses. The company said in March that it has met that goal, and set a new goal of hiring 25,000 veterans and military spouses by 2025.\nIn the U.S., meanwhile, Starbucks is focusing its hiring of refugees on those who have worked as translators or support people for U.S. armed forces in Iraq and Afghanistan. It’s partnering with No One Left Behind, a resettlement organization founded by a veteran and his translator, to help match refugees to jobs, the company said.}}
{{Trending: National protests expected for separation of migrant families and Judge dismisses #Emanuel9 lawsuits\nConnect with the writer:\nFollow @kimberleidavis\nGet breaking news, weather and traffic on the go. Download the ABC Columbia News App for your iPhone or Android phone and tablet.}}
{{Chris Cornell’s collaborators have released the final video he worked on before his untimely death last month. Cornell’s song “The Promise” comes from the soundtrack of the film of the same name, a drama about refugees from the Armenian Genocide of 1915-1917. It opens with photographs from an earlier century, but it soon shifts to feature contemporary footage (much of it donated by photographers and charities) of refugees from Syria, Libya, and elsewhere. Cornell appears throughout, playing acoustic guitar in a darkened studio.\nIt was Cornell’s intention to highlight the suffering of refugees worldwide, directors Meiert Avis and Stefan Smith told Rolling Stone. He asked them repeatedly to give the video a hopeful tone, despite the difficult subject matter. The directors say their initial concept called for expository text, but they wound up cutting it in favor of a more immediate, emotionally stirring effect. The final cut of “The Promise” combines footage of bombing and fleeing families with uplifting images of rescued children, reunions, and pro-refugee demonstrations.\n“The Promise” posthumously becomes Cornell’s final video. His previous final video, for the 2015 solo song “Nearly Forgot My Broken Heart,” was removed from YouTube—apparently because its plot, which depicted Cornell facing execution by hanging in the Old West, bore uncomfortable similarities to the real Cornell’s death by suicide.\n“The Promise” video is out today, June 20, to mark World Refugee Day. The song’s proceeds support the humanitarian charity International Rescue Committee. Watch below.}}
{{Oak Bay’s national cycling champion Adam De Vos is wearing the maple leaf jersey in Quebec City today, his first time racing in it on Canadian soil since winning it in June.\nDe Vos and his entire Rally UHC pro team, including Victoria-based Rob Britton, are racing in Friday’s Grands Prix Quebec and Sunday’s GP Montreal.\nThe races are Canada’s only stop on the UCI world tour road race calendar. They’re live-streamed free at facebook.com/GPCQM.\nREAD MORE: Oak Bay cyclist wins Canadian cycling championship\n“Wearing the national champ kit at any race is really special and so far I’ve savoured every opportunity I have had to race in it,” said De Vos. “To wear it at the biggest races in Canada will be a huge honour and responsibility. It will be great to have the Canadian fans behind us in such a tough race.”\nThe two criteriums are ideal for rouleur style sprinters with a short, but steep climb as part of the loop. Friday’s race starts at 10:30 a.m.\nreporter@oakbaynews.com\nLike us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter}}
{{Children line up to meet Santa in Port Clinton, circa 1958. Photo courtesy of Al Riznikove.\nThe Ottawa County Museum, located at 126 W. Third St., Port Clinton, will be open on the following days over the Christmas and New Year holidays:}}
{{The organizers of the 2016 Heights Music Hop announced today that the annual event will expand to two nights and include nearly 70 bands performing for free in two separate Cleveland Heights business districts.First, the Cedar Fairmount district will host performances on Friday, September 23, when acts such as By Light We Loom, The Whiskey Hollow, City Limits, Shivering Timbers and Caleb Wright will perform at Appletree Books, Luna (restaurant and coffee house) and the Fairmount Cocktail Bar. Then, the Cedar Lee district will feature more than 50 Northeast Ohio artists performing at 21 traditional and non-traditional venues on Saturday, Sept. 24. Honeybucket, Marcus Alan Ward, Teddy Boys and Ottawa will perform at venues such as the Wine Spot, Phoenix Coffee, the Lee Road branch of the CH-UH library, BottleHouse Brewery, Heights Music Shop and Washington & Lee Service (yes, it’s an auto repair business). A beer garden and stage will also be set up in the City of Cleveland Heights parking garage, located on the east side of Lee Road.Events on both days are free. Music begins at 5 p.m. on Friday and at 3 p.m. on Saturday. A complete schedule of performers and venues will be available at heightsmusichop.com}}
{{George and Amal Clooney are taking action against President Donald Trump's controversial, "zero tolerance" immigration policy that has resulted in about 2,000 children being separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border.\nThe couple, who are parents to 1-year-old twins Alexander and Ella and co-presidents of the Clooney Foundation for Justice, released a statement on Tuesday, revealing they have donated $100,000 to the Young Center for Immigrant Children's Rights.\n"At some point in the future our children will ask us: is it true, did our country really take babies from their parents and put them in detention centers?" the statement reads. "And when we answer yes, they'll ask us what we did about it. What we said. Where we stood."\n"We can't change this Administration's policy, but we can help defend the victims of it," the statement continues. "Today, the Clooney Foundation for Justice will donate $100,000 to the Young Center for Immigrant Children's Rights."\nAfter the donation was made, Maria Woltjen, Executive Director of Young Center for Immigrant Children’s Rights at the University of Chicago, also released a statement:\n"This Administration’s policy disregards international law and basic principles of human decency. To treat children in such a cruel manner not only violates their legal rights but also their basic needs. We are doing everything we can to advocate on behalf of the thousands of children who are separated and alone, and we are grateful for the generous support of George and Amal Clooney and the Clooney Foundation for Justice -- it could not be more vital at this time."\nThe Clooneys join a long list of celebrities who have expressed their outrage over the policy, which occurred during a six-week period in April and May. Other stars who have publicly spoken out include Chrissy Teigen and John Legend, Anne Hathaway, Reese Witherspoon, Kristen Bell and Jimmy Kimmel.\nHear more on what they've said (and what you can do to help) in the video below.\nRELATED CONTENT:\nChrissy Teigen, Anne Hathaway & More Sound Off on Immigrant Children Being Separated From Parents at US Border\nCelebrities Sound Off on Children Being Separated From Parents at U.S. Border\nRachel Maddow Breaks Down in Tears Over ‘Tender Age’ Shelters, Has to Hand Off Segment\nRelated Gallery}}
{{Priddis, Alberta (AP) — Three-time champion Lydia Ko was back on the Canadian Pacific Women’s Open leaderboard Thursday. Canadian star Brooke Henderson had a lot of catching up to do in the lightning-delayed first round.\nThe top-ranked Ko shot a 5-under 67 at Priddis Greens in the round delayed for nearly three hours, leaving her a stroke behind leader Stephanie Meadow. The 18-year-old Henderson was even par through five holes with less than two hours of daylight left.\nKo has won the event three of the last four years, the first two as an amateur. The 19-year-old New Zealander has four LPGA Tour victories this season, winning the ANA Inspiration for her second major title.\nMeadow, the 24-year-old former Alabama player from Northern Ireland, birdied the final two holes, closing with a 20-footer on the par-4 ninth. South Korea’s Mirim Lee and Mi Jung Hur matched Ko at 67.}}
{{The exterior of the apartment rented to suspects John Nuttall and Amanda Korody is pictured in Surrey, British Columbia July 3, 2013. REUTERS/Andy Clark\nSURREY, British Columbia (Reuters) - One of the suspects in a Canadian bomb plot is a former drug user with a history of violence, a self-styled “Muslim Punk” who also wrote songs about his love for Satan.\nDescriptions of John Nuttall by four people who knew him, combined with court records and his own postings online, portray a sometimes troubled man on the margins of society.\nPolice have charged Nuttall and companion Amanda Korody with trying to set off three home-made pressure cooker bombs in a crowd celebrating the July 1 Canada Day holiday in Victoria, the capital of the Pacific province of British Columbia.\nPolice said the pair drew inspiration from al Qaeda and described them as self-radicalized. Officials told reporters on Tuesday the authorities had always been in control of the situation and had made sure the devices could not explode.\nPolice did not give more details and would not say whether they had infiltrated the cell.\nTom Morino, the couple’s lawyer, told Reuters he had spoken to both clients on Monday. He said he had known Nuttall for 10 years and always found him to be “a pleasant, polite, thoughtful, generous individual”, albeit one with problems.\n“(He had) some emotional issues, some addiction issues ... It is on the public record he had an addiction to illicit drugs for a while and struggled with that,” Morino said.\nNuttall, born in 1974, and Korody, born in 1983, will remain in jail until their next court hearing on July 9. Morino said the two were in a relationship.\nIn March 2003, the Victoria Times Colonist newspaper said Nuttall had been given a conditional 18-month jail sentence in 2003 for hitting a businessman on the head with a rock in May 2002 and stealing his briefcase. Morino told the court his client had been high on cocaine at the time, the paper said.\nBritish Columbia court records posted online show only that Nuttall was convicted of robbery in relation to an offence committed in May 2002. They also show convictions for mischief and assault after an incident in 2001.\nMore recently, Nuttall was convicted twice for offences committed in 2009, one for assault and one for possessing a weapon for a dangerous purpose.\nMorino, who the paper said had acted for Nuttall in 2003, declined to confirm details about any of the cases.\nMEMBER OF PUNK BANDS\nAt the time of their arrest, Nuttall and Korody were living in a dirty basement apartment in the town of Surrey, some 31 km (18 miles) southeast of Vancouver.\nWhen Reuters saw the apartment on Wednesday after a police search, there were five empty prescription bottles labeled methadone in the kitchen. All were in Korody’s name.\nGarbage bags stuffed with dirty clothes lay in one room. Pinned to a notice board was a leaflet about a 2011 conference to celebrate the birth and life of the Prophet Mohammad as well as an advertisement from a Vancouver store that sells surplus military clothing and equipment.\nLandlord Ramesh Thaman said the couple had moved in three years previously and “looked like nice people”, albeit somewhat messy ones.\n“I was totally shocked,” he told Reuters, speaking of the arrests.\nNeighbor Charlene Thompson said she had called police earlier this year after hearing Nuttall having a loud conversation outside on his mobile phone.\n“He was ... talking about jihad and all sorts of things,” she told the Canadian Broadcasting Corp.\nIn online postings, Nuttall identified himself as Johnny Blade, “a Muslim Punk from Victoria” who belonged to a band called No World Order which had moved to Vancouver.\n“We are new to Vancouver (sic) and looking to meet anyone else into Allah and hardcore punk,” he wrote in August 2011.\nOn his website, Nuttall posted four poorly-recorded solo songs with titles like “The End Of The World” and “In League With Satan”. An extract of lyrics from the latter song read:\n“We are possesed (sic) by all that is evil/The death of your god we demand/We spit at the virgin you worship/And sit at Lord Satans (sic) Left Hand”.\nNuttall also played for a month with the British Columbia-based hard rock band Lust Boys in 2009, lead singer Tommy Thrust told Reuters.\n“I’ve never known him to even believe in religion. As far as I knew he was an atheist,” he said, describing Nuttall as stubborn and opinionated. “He briefly spoke about politics here and there but he wasn’t really that well-educated.”\nThrust said Nuttall had left the band on good terms and said members would see him in Vancouver occasionally.\n“He didn’t really say a lot when we saw him because he was always drunk. He just wanted to party, basically,” he said.\nThe Lust Boys issued a statement on Wednesday disassociating themselves from their former band mate.\n“The actions played out by John Nuttall were one of an individuals (sic) radical thinking and poor decision making and should have no reflection on the LUST BOYS as a whole,” it said.}}
{{The US president said he will be signing something 'in a little while' to address the issue.\nPresident Donald Trump said 'we want to keep families together'. AP\nUS President Donald Trump has said he will be signing something "in a little while" to address the spike in the number of migrant children being separated from their families at the border.\nMr Trump said during a White House meeting with members of Congress: "We want to keep families together."\nThe comments come amid news that homeland security secretary Kirstjen Nielsen has been working on executive action that would end the separation process.\nMr Trump added: "We want to solve this immigration problem."\nThe effort would mark a dramatic departure for an administration that has been insisting, wrongly, that it has no choice but to separate families apprehended at the border because of the law and a court decision.\nMs Nielsen, the president and other officials have repeatedly said the only way to end the practice is for Congress to pass new legislation, though both Democrats and some Republicans have said the president could reverse it with a simple phone call.\nThe news in recent days has been dominated by images of children held in cages at border facilities, as well as audio recordings of young children crying for their parents.\nMr Trump had tweeted earlier that he was "working on something".\n"It's the Democrats fault, they won't give us the votes needed to pass good immigration legislation. They want open borders, which breeds horrible crime. Republicans want security. But I am working on something - it never ends!" he wrote.\nThe administration recently put into place a "zero tolerance" policy in which all unlawful border crossings are referred for prosecution - a process that moves adults to the custody of the US Marshals Service and sends many children to facilities run by the Department of Health and Human Services.\nUnder the Obama administration, such families were usually referred for civil deportation proceedings, not requiring separation.\nThe policy had led to a spike in family separations in recent weeks, with more than 2,300 minors separated from their families at the border from May 5 through until June 9, according to the Department of Homeland Security.\nWant to receive the latest headlines straight to your inbox? Subscribe to our 'Morning Briefing' newsletter. Subscribe This field is required. That doesn't look like a valid e-mail format, please check. That e-mail's already in our system. Please try again. Please tick the box below to confirm your subscription Thanks for subscribing to our 'Morning Briefing' newsletter. Subscribed Want to receive the latest headlines straight to your inbox? Subscribe to our 'Morning Briefing' newsletter. Thanks for subscribing to our 'Morning Briefing' newsletter. Subscribe\nDownload: The STV News app is Scotland's favourite and is available for iPhone from the App store and for Android from Google Play. Download it today and continue to enjoy STV News wherever you are.}}
{{Use Our Content This story can be republished for free ( details ).\nThe Trump administration has detained 2,322 children 12 years old or younger amid its border crackdown, a Department of Health and Human Services official told Kaiser Health News on Wednesday. They represent almost 20 percent of the immigrant children currently held by the U.S. government in the wake of its latest immigrant prosecution policy.\nTheir welfare is being overseen by a small division of the Department of Health and Human Services — the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) — which has little experience or expertise in handling very young children.\nThe number of children has exploded in the past six weeks since the Trump administration moved to stop parents and their children at the U.S. border and separate and detain them in different facilities. A total of 11,786 children under age 18 are currently detained, the official said.\nSince 2003, ORR has been charged with sheltering and finding suitable homes for “unaccompanied alien children” — generally teenaged immigrants who reach the United States without a parent or guardian.\nBut its responsibilities have morphed and multiplied since April because the immigration crackdown means that the ORR is now responsible for detaining not only more children, but minors who are far younger than those who had arrived in the past, experts said.\nEmail Sign-Up Subscribe to KHN’s free Morning Briefing.\nBeyond specialized medical care, younger children have different food and housing needs, and require more personal attention.\n“The children are younger and will be there for a longer time and are deeply traumatized by being forcibly separated from their parents,” said Mark Greenberg, a former administration official at HHS’ Administration for Children and Families, which oversees the ORR. “All of that makes it much more difficult to operate the program.”\nThe complex crisis is magnified by the inexperience of some of the political appointees leading the response, said critics who include former officials from both Republican and Democratic administrations of the past decade.\nORR Director Scott Lloyd is a lawyer whose career has been focused on anti-abortion efforts. He led the Trump administration’s legal efforts to prevent abortions for detained teen immigrants. Lloyd’s main immigration experience before leading ORR was research for a report on refugees for the Knights of Columbus, a Catholic service organization with an anti-abortion stance, according to a deposition he gave in lawsuit filed by the American Civil Liberties Union.\nKenneth Wolfe, the HHS spokesman who provided the figures, declined to address how many people are currently working at ORR or whether ORR had secured additional staff or expertise to cope with the influx of young children. He also would not say how many of the 2,322 children 12 and younger have been separated from their families.\nThe administration had previously refused to provide the ages of the children separated from their families — saying only that about 2,300 children have been separated and detained since the policy took effect.\nThe detention conditions, which include children being held in chain-link holding pens and “tent cities,” have ignited a political firestorm over possible abuse in the treatment of children as young as 4. Some of these younger children — including toddlers — are being sent to “tender age” shelters, according to media reports. The care is also costly: Tents alone cost HHS $775 per person per day, according to media reports.\nRepublicans, including former first lady Laura Bush, have called on the administration to stop the policy. President Donald Trump has blamed Congress for the detentions, but top White House advisers were actively promoting family separations as a policy shift.\nNews reports have described children as young as 5 being scolded for playing, one teenager teaching others how to change a small child’s diaper, and caretakers not being permitted to touch children. ProPublica reported that more than 100 children detained are younger than 4.\nORR, experts add, is already at a disadvantage.\n“It’s significantly challenging to create that capacity, and quite expensive,” noted Robert Carey, a former ORR director from the Obama administration. “All the aspects of care are dramatically different based on age. … You need people who are trained in early childhood development or care.”\nThat’s a heavy lift for an office that, experts stress, was never built to serve as a long-term housing system.\nIt’s not clear, Carey and others said, that the administration has had sufficient time or support to adapt.\nMany ORR employees, Carey added, are career staffers with deep knowledge about immigration and child welfare, with whom he frequently worked while in office.\n“The kids are going into the custody of ORR without adequate resources,” said Shadi Houshyar, who directs early childhood and child welfare initiatives at Families USA, an advocacy group. “It’s definitely going to result in some potentially damaging decisions being made. The capacity, training and fundamental orientation — while understanding the needs of children — is not the orientation that ORR has.”\nWhile ORR has a history of placing teenagers who arrive on their own with relatives of families in the U.S., that challenge is heightened by the policy of separating children, who are young and may understand little of the experience or be able to identify relatives who could take them in.\nMaking matters more complicated, when families are separated, parents and children are tracked by different federal agencies — the parents by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and the children by ORR. Children are also tracked and treated the same as minors who arrived on their own. Together, that makes reunification more difficult. And that’s a problem experts worry will persist, even if family separations cease.\n“It does not look like they’ve figured out this process,” said a former HHS official, who requested anonymity because she could face professional ramifications for speaking publicly. As a result, she added, “the time the child stays in ORR could be significantly longer” — which in turn adds to trauma and causes other long-term problems.\nUse Our Content This story can be republished for free ( details ).\nKHN’s coverage of children’s health care issues is supported in part by the Heising-Simons Foundation.}}
{{Turtle Bay Exploration Park invites the public to Brews by the Bridge on the Quarry Patio, near the north end of the Sundial Bridge at Turtle Bay in Redding on Friday, June 23, 2017, from 6:30 to 9:30 p.m.\nThis annual event is the perfect way to celebrate the solstice with beer, live music, tasty food, and activities, all while supporting Turtle Bay’s educational programs and exhibits. This is a 21 and over only event. All funds raised go to support the educational programs and exhibitions at Turtle Bay.\nBrews by the Bridge is proudly supported by Redding Distributing and will feature beer from six of Northern California’s favorite breweries: Fall River Brewing Company, Sierra Nevada, Lagunitas, Lost Coast Brewery, Wildcard Brewing Company, and Mad River Brewing Company.\nPre-sale ends Thursday, June 22, 2017. A $1.50 fee applies for online ticket purchasing only. Tickets purchased on the day of the event (Friday, June 23) are $15 each and only available at the Turtle Bay Museum, museum store or coffee shop.}}
{{New Story\nIt’s empty now, but in four days New York’s Madison Square Garden will be filled with some of the world’s biggest music stars for the annual MTV Video Music Awards show.\nBeyonce leads the nominations with a career-high 11 nods, Adele has notched seven and Rihanna has multiple nods for her collaborations with DJ Calvin Harris on “This is What You Came For,” and with Drake on “Work.”\nOne of the most anticipated moments on Sunday will be Rihanna receiving the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award – the equivalent of a lifetime achievement award – and performing live on stage .\n“I think everyone wants to tune in for Rihanna … What she’s doing with the Video Vanguard moment is like no one has ever done,” executive producer Jesse Ignjatovic said on Thursday.\nOther confirmed performers include Britney Spears, Ariana Grande, Nicki Minaj and Nick Jonas.\nThe always unpredictable rapper Kanye West will attend and be seated in the front row with his reality star wife, Kim Kardashian. Producers will not say whether he will perform.\n“We were happy to have him coming and I’m excited to hear what he’s going to do,” Ignjatovic said.\nOther celebrity presenters include U.S. Olympic champion swimmer Michael Phelps and the Rio gold medal-winning women’s gymnastics team.\nThe show will air live on MTV on Aug. 28.}}
{{John Moore/Getty Images\nIt turns out Facebook can help raise a lot of money.\nCharlotte and Dave Willner set up a fundraiser on Facebook on Saturday to help reunite families affected by the Trump administration's "zero tolerance" approach toward undocumented immigrants, USA Today reported Monday. Their original goal was to raise $1,500.\nAs of Wednesday, over $9 million has been raised from more than 229,000 contributors. It's the largest single fundraiser to date using Facebook Fundraisers, and a spokesman for the social network confirmed that Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and COO Sheryl Sandberg both made donations.\nThe couple, both former Facebook employees who now work at other tech companies, felt "revulsed" by the more than 2,000 children separated from their parents at the US-Mexico border. The issue has also caught the attention of tech industry leaders. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, for instance, said Monday that his company "is dismayed by the forcible separation of children from their families at the border." Airbnb's co-founders also spoke out, saying in a statement on Twitter that the "US government needs to stop this injustice and reunite these families." In January, Amazon's Jeff Bezos donated $33 million to a scholarship fund for immigrants brought into the US illegally as children.\nThe funds raised in the Facebook campaign will benefit RAICES, a Texas nonprofit that provides free legal services to immigrants and refugees. The company didn't respond to a request for comment but said in a Facebook post that "thanks is inadequate for the work these funds will make possible. We know it will change lives."\nNow Playing: Watch this: Tech leaders slam Trump for ending DACA\nCNET's Marrian Zhou contributed to this report.\nFirst published on June 18 at 10:11 p.m. PT.\nUpdates June 19 at 8:54 a.m. PT: Adds Airbnb co-founders statement, Facebook spokesman confirmation and RAICES statement. And 10:17 p.m. PT: Adds more information about the fundraiser. And 1:22 p.m. PT: Fundraising amount is now over $5 million.\nUpdate, June 20 at 7:03 a.m. PT: Fundraising amount is now over $9 million.\nCorrection, June 19 at 10:17 a.m. PT: An earlier version of this story misspelled the last name of Charlotte and Dave Willner.\nFight the Power: Take a look at who's transforming the way we think about energy.\n'Hello, humans': Google's Duplex could make Assistant the most lifelike AI yet.}}
{{University of Chichester music graduate Jennifer Owens releases her debut EP on August 26, available from iTunes, all the usual online outlets and her website jenniferowens.co.uk.\nOriginally from Basildon, Essex, Jennifer has opted to stay in West Sussex following her studies. She now lives in Trotton: “I moved to Chichester to study at the university, a three-year course which I have just finished. It was the BA hons in music, and I really enjoyed it. I really enjoyed the first year, and I struggled with the second. I was not sure what was happening, what I wanted. I didn’t see any longevity in the music industry, but I was lucky to come across the right people. But then once that started happening for me, I was able to settle down and enjoy the last year. I got a lot of experience from my degree. I got a lot of social skills, and I grew up a lot. I think it gave me direction. I now know exactly what I want to do.\n“I only really got serious about music when I got serious about the solo stuff in the past couple of years. Before that, I was not really sure about what direction would be best. I thought about theatre for a while. But with other things, I just didn’t feel appreciated enough in that sort of environment. It was not enough. And now I have fallen in love with doing my own stuff, and that’s definitely the way I want to go.\n“Most of my material is my own. I do a few covers. I cover some of the music of a writer in New York who is quite fond of me and what I do. He popped up last year, Scott Alan. He gave me free rein with his music. I do some of his stuff; the rest is originals. I started writing really recently. I never really had the tools to do it myself. I don’t play an instrument. I didn’t know how I could write songs by myself until my manager set me up with some co-writers, and now I do write by myself.”\nAs for the music: “Well, I want to say it is old-fashioned, but that sounds out-dated. I have got influenced by Karen Carpenter, Barbra Streisand, people like that. It’s a throw-back, not like the music now. There is a lot of heart-felt meaning to it. For me, it is really important that all music should reach out to people. It should be there for people and it should offer a hand in good times and in bad times. I really want people to relate to the lyrics in the way I relate to the lyrics in songs by Karen Carpenter and Barbra Streisand. I can really see what they are saying and understand that, and I want people to feel the same about my music.My nan passed away before Christmas. I wrote a song about her called Turn To Me. I have also written about my strange relationship with my father. I think we all have a tough ride, don’t we? Not everything is easy. The songs are very personal to me, but also for everyone else. We all go through things. I have also written a song about staying with someone forever.”\nDon't miss out on all the latest breaking news where you live.\nHere are four ways you can be sure you'll be amongst the first to know what's going on.\n1) Make our website your homepage\n2) Like our Facebook page\n3) Follow us on Twitter\n4) Register with us by clicking on 'sign in' (top right corner). You can then receive our daily newsletter AND add your point of view to stories that you read here.\nAnd do share with your family and friends - so they don't miss out!\nAlways the first with your local news.\nBe part of it.}}
{{ROMY AND MICHELE'S HIGH SCHOOL REUNION, starring Cortney Wolfson (Romy) and Stephanie Renee Wall (Michele), is making its world premiere at Seattle's 5th Avenue Theatre, and BroadwayWorld has a first look at at the song "Romy and Michele's Big Night Out!"\nRomy and Michele are two inseparable best friends whose relationship is put to the test when they invent fake careers to impress people at their 10-year high school reunion. Romy and Michele's High School Reunion features a creative team including Rock of Ages' director Kristin Hanggi and a book by the film's screenwriter, Robin Schiff. With an all new '80s and '90s pop/rock-inspired score from Gwendolyn Sanford and BranDon Jay, composers of Orange is the New Black, Romy and Michele's High School Reunion is the coolest thing since the invention of Post-its.\nROMY AND MICHELE'S HIGH SCHOOL REUNION is running at 5th Avenue Theatre through July 2 at the historic venue in downtown Seattle. For tickets and more information, visit www.5thavenue.org.\nRelated Articles}}
{{TORONTO, July 17 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index climbed on Wednesday to its highest in 1-1/2 months after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said the U.S. central bank's plans for its monetary stimulus program were not set in stone. The Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index unofficially closed up 51.88 points, or 0.41 percent, at 12,568.77. Eight of the 10 main sectors on the index were higher.}}
{{By Peggy Kelly\nSanta Paula News\nIt could almost be called the Ojai (Santa Paula) Music Festival when come June 12 East Main Street will be filled with an eclectic showcase of music for a free gala celebration to mark the closing of the annual event.\nIt will be the first time in its 70-year history that the festival will wander from Ojai for the closing concert.\nOrganizers of the Ojai Music Festival and the Santa Paula Chamber of Commerce have partnered in the effort to not only bring the festival to the historic Downtown but to make sure everyone knows there will be two stages offering continuous music.\nIt is hoped that not only local Ventura County residents will attend but also those out-of-towners that will travel Ojai-Santa Paula Road/Highway 150 to go back to their homes in Los Angeles county on the closing day of the festival.\n“Everyone is excited about it,” said Marilyn Appleby, the incoming Chamber of Commerce Chair who has worked closely with organizers on the local event. “It’s a wonderful partnership and the festival group have been great to work with…they really want this to be successful as much as we do!”\nPart of ensuring that success has included presentations to the City Council and a road show of chamber and festival officials visiting local clubs and organizations to garner support.\nIt will be some show: scheduled performers include Egyptian singer Dina El Wedidi and her band; Indian vocalist Aruna Sairam; the International Contemporary Ensemble, 33 musicians performing contemporary classical music that have garnered rave reviews; and the Grammy-winning vocal ensemble Roomful of Teeth.\nRather than repeat their performances they’ll play different music at the street party than what they’ll play in Ojai, and unlike the main show they will trade off and together in a musical celebration not often available to the ear.\nThis year’s Festival Musical Director is the internationally renowned Peter Sellars, who according to CEO Gina Gutierrez was taken with Santa Paula’s ambiance and history. Sellars selected the Downtown as a venue, the first time the festival has every branched out.\nThe four-day Ojai Music Festival will feature Finnish composer Kaija Saariaho and showcases her works including the American premieres of the chamber version of “La Passion de Simone” and her newest dramatic creation “Only the Sound Remains”.}}
{{More than 100 east African migrants escaped from a camp in the Libyan town of Bani Walid where they were being held hostage and tortured, international agencies and local sources said on Saturday.\nThe migrants from Eritrea, Ethiopia and Somalia fled on Wednesday night to a mosque in the town where they were taken in by local associations and residents.\nThe hospital in Bani Walid said around 20 of them were being treated for injuries from torture.\nAccording to Doctors Without Borders (MSF), in a statement quoting witnesses, 15 migrants were killed and 25 injured during the escape, but there was no immediate confirmation from local sources.\nSome of those who escaped, mostly adolescents, told MSF rescue workers that they had been held by people traffickers for up to three years.\nThe medical charity said seven of those hospitalised had serious gunshot wounds.\n"This is another example of the ongoing horrors suffered by many migrants and refugees while transiting through Libya." MSF said, adding that "kidnapping for ransom remains a thriving business".\nBani Walid, 170km southeast of the Libyan capital Tripoli, is a transit point for migrants aiming to reach Europe by boat from the coast further north.\nPeople traffickers and kidnappers run around 20 detention centres in the town, telephoning the migrants' families to deliver ransom demands.\nSince the 2011 fall and killing of longtime dictator Moamer Kadhafi, Libya has become a key launchpad for migrants making desperate bids to reach Europe.\nThe conflict-riven country is regularly singled out for the exploitation and ill-treatment of migrants from sub-Saharan Africa.\n* Sign up to News24's top Africa news in your inbox: SUBSCRIBE TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER\nFOLLOW News24 Africa on Twitter and Facebook}}
{{NEEDTOBREATHE hit stride with expansive new album, tour\nNASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — On their new album, the rock band NEEDTOBREATHE have a song about the dangers of indulging in a rock 'n' roll lifestyle in which lead singer Bear Rinehart boasts that he "found the bottom from the top somehow."\nThe song, "MONEY & FAME," was mostly a metaphor, as the Grammy-nominated South Carolina-based band is at the top of their game with a collection of Dove Awards, singles being used on TV commercials and a major headlining tour.\n"We asked the producers as we were writing the song a bunch of times, 'Does this sound too arrogant? Because we're not rich and we're not famous,'" Rinehart said while in Nashville, Tennessee, rehearsing for their new tour that kicked off this month.\nFILE - In this Oct. 14, 2012 file photo, Needtobreathe performs at Austin City Limits Music Festival in Austin, Texas. The band released a new album in July and launched a new tour that kicked off on Aug. 17. (Photo by John Davisson/Invision/AP, File)\nBut Rinehart, 35, said the band has learned after more than a decade together sometimes you can do the right thing for the wrong reasons.\n"We definitely were guilty of that for a while and it caused us to fight a lot as brothers and really as a whole band," Rinehart said. "It gave everybody who worked for us a lot of turmoil because success was sort of the goal. I think that's what that song is about. Making sure you are true to who you are and you're doing it for the right reasons."\nTheir sixth studio album, "H A R D L O V E," debuted at No. 2 on the Billboard 200 albums chart in July, and topped the alternative, rock and Christian charts.\nThe band, which is made up of brothers Bear and Bo Rinehart, Seth Bolt and Josh Lovelace, continues to evolve their musical tastes. While their last album in 2014 leaned more toward Americana and acoustic guitar rock, the new album makes heavy use of synthesizers, beats and electronic pop melodies.\n"We had more fun making it than making any other record," Bear Rinehart said. "Bo loves it. Bo loves dancing."\n"I took dance lessons so that I could learn the rhythms and the grooves," said 34-year-old Bo Rinehart.\nThe expansive new sound will be showcased on their 50-city tour of amphitheaters and arenas where they might let those rock star fantasies come to life.\n"It's more lights, more video, explosions," Bear Rinehart joked. "We're giving away Cadillacs, gold necklaces."\n"I am bringing four suitcases, so just me personally it's the biggest tour I have been on," Bo Rinehart added.\n_____\nOnline:\nhttp://www.needtobreathe.com/\n_____\nFollow Kristin M. Hall at twitter.com/kmhall}}
{{“Refugees are people like you and me, with hopes for their futures and their families,” said Margaret Reilly McDonnell, Director of Nothing But Nets..."We are doing our part to ensure no child dies from a preventable disease like malaria."\nToday, on World Refugee Day, the United Nations Foundation’s Nothing But Nets campaign announced a new commitment to fight malaria with Sumitomo Chemical Co., a global leader in innovative vector control and long-standing partner in the fight to end malaria. Sumitomo Chemical has issued a second matching grant challenge to Nothing But Nets supporters: For every life-saving bed net donated by a supporter (up to 350,000 nets), Sumitomo Chemical will match it, for a total of 700,000 nets. Sumitomo Chemical’s commitment to help Nothing But Nets and its UN partners working across sub-Saharan Africa is part of Nothing But Nets’ new “P.L.E.D.G.E. to Protect” two million refugees and displaced individuals from malaria by the end of 2017.\nToday, there a record 65.6 million refugees and families living displaced by violence around the world – and 60 percent of them live in areas where malaria is transmitted. Malaria is a major threat to refugees – it is a leading cause of illness and death in many African countries, including those where Nothing But Nets and its UN partners work.\n“Refugees are people like you and me, with hopes for their futures and their families,” said Margaret Reilly McDonnell, Director of Nothing But Nets. “But they have had to face unspeakable odds. We are doing our part to ensure no child dies from a preventable disease like malaria. We are grateful to Sumitomo for its significant commitment to help families stay healthy, rebuild, and thrive.”\nSumitomo Chemical’s commitment to Nothing But Nets and refugee families also supports Every Woman Every Child, an unprecedented global movement launched by former UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon during the United Nations Millennium Development Goals Summit in September 2010. Every Woman Every Child mobilizes and intensifies international and national action by governments, multilaterals, the private sector, and civil society to address the major health challenges facing women and children around the world. In April 2017, UN Secretary-General António Guterres joined the High-Level Steering Committee for Every Woman Every Child as its third and senior Co-chair, joining Co-chairs President Michele Bachelet of Chile and Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn of Ethiopia in the leadership of the global, multi-stakeholder partnership.\n“It is heartbreaking to see the difficulties refugees face when they are forced to flee their homes,” said Ray Nishimoto, Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, and President of the Health & Crop Sciences Sector, Sumitomo Chemical. “We know that malaria hits the most vulnerable people the hardest, and that’s why we have renewed our initiative with Nothing But Nets. We commit to continuous innovation of new vector control tools until the world is free of malaria.”\nThe new initiative follows the successful completion of an earlier shared commitment to Every Woman Every Child: In 2015, Nothing But Nets and Sumitomo announced a new partnership to protect refugees through The Millions Nets Pledge, the campaign’s two-year commitment to deliver one million life-saving bed nets to displaced families across sub-Saharan Africa. That commitment was fulfilled in 2016, and helped to protect over two million refugees and vulnerable people, including children, adolescents, and pregnant women from malaria. It raised $3.8 million, inspired 13,304 grassroots donors to send nets and save lives, inspired countless major donors to join and amplify the partnership, and reached the significant milestone of distributing the Nothing But Nets 10 millionth bed net on the occasion of its 10th anniversary.\nEvery two minutes, a child dies from malaria. Nothing But Nets is the world’s largest grassroots campaign fighting this disease caused by a single mosquito bite. Since 2000, there has been incredible progress made to defeat the disease – more than 6.8 million lives have been saved, and child mortality rates have decreased 71% in sub-Saharan Africa. Anyone can send a net and help save a life – visit http://www.NothingButNets.net to learn more.\n# # #\nContacts\nRachel Henderson\nCommunications Manager, Nothing But Nets\nrhenderson(at)unfoundation(dot)org\n570.259.2205\nAdam Flynn\nStrategic Communications and Marketing Manager, Sumitomo Chemical\naflynn(at)sumivector(dot)com\n+44 (0) 7738 981712\nAbout Nothing But Nets\nNothing But Nets is the world’s largest grassroots campaign to save lives by preventing malaria, a disease which claims the life of a child every two minutes. Inspired by sports columnist Rick Reilly, hundreds of thousands of people have joined the campaign that was created by the United Nations Foundation in 2006. Nothing But Nets has raised over $60 million to help deliver ten million bed nets to families in need, along with other crucial malaria interventions. In addition to raising funds for its UN partners, Nothing But Nets raises awareness and voices to advocate for critical malaria funding for the U.S. President’s Malaria Initiative and The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. It only costs $10 to help save lives from this deadly disease. Visit http://www.NothingButNets.net to defeat malaria.\nAbout The United Nations Foundation\nThe United Nations Foundation builds public-private partnerships to address the world’s most pressing problems, and broadens support for the United Nations through advocacy and public outreach. Through innovative campaigns and initiatives, the Foundation connects people, ideas, and resources to help the UN solve global problems. The Foundation was created in 1998 as a U.S. public charity by entrepreneur and philanthropist Ted Turner and now is supported by philanthropic, corporate, government, and individual donors. Learn more at: http://www.unfoundation.org.\nAbout Sumitomo Chemical\nFounded in 1913, Sumitomo Chemical Company has grown to be one of the world's leading multinational chemical companies with annual sales amounting to US $20.8 billion and 30,000 employees. Sumitomo Chemical is proud to supply a full range of insecticide active ingredients with the best and most comprehensive technical and regulatory support, from discovery and development of new active ingredients, through technical and regulatory support to supply of the highest quality products. As an expanding global business which pursues leading-edge research and development – over 2,000 employees work in R&D – Sumitomo Chemical continually strives to contribute to the sustainable development of society throughout the world. In line with this approach, Sumitomo has been manufacturing its life-saving Olyset LLIN in Africa since 2003. In 2008 it opened a purpose-built factory with its joint venture partner A to Z Textiles in Arusha, Tanzania where up to 30 million nets are manufactured per year and at peak 7,000 local people are employed. It has also established an R&D facility at Arusha - the only facility of its size in East and Central Africa to be owned by a private company. For more information about Sumitomo Chemical’s Vector Control Dept. and pipeline of innovation helping to #endmalaria, visit http://www.sumivector.com.}}
{{Canada voted to legalise the recreational use of cannabis, coming good on a manifesto promise from 2015 and becoming just the second country in the world to do so.\nBut cannabis laws across the world are changing, with many countries decriminalising or legalising possession, sale and cultivation in recent years.\nIn countries where the drug is fully legal it is heavily regulated and taxed. Other countries like the Netherlands take a more tolerant approach, choosing to not prosecute rather than to legalise.\nUSA\nCannabis legalisation for medical and recreational uses is increasing across the country, albeit at a state level. It is still illegal under federal law.\nCalifornia was the first state to legalise cannabis for medical use in 1996, and Washington and Colorado hold the joint title for being the first states to fully legalise the drug for sale to adults in 2012.\nCurrently there are nine states, including Washington DC, where it is legal for adult use. 29 states allow the drug to be sold for medical use and as taxation of the industry brings extra spending money, more states are expected to follow suit in legalising or at least decriminalising the drug.\nUruguay\nIn 2014 Uruguay became the first country in the world to fully legalise the use drug for recreational purposes. The country’s already liberal laws permitting consumption were relaxed to allow citizens to possess the drug and cultivate plants at home or in growing clubs.}}
{{Justice Department officials have been working on a draft executive order that would halt the separation of children from adult immigrants charged with illegal entry, an official familiar with the matter confirmed Wednesday.\nThe official who is not authorized to comment publicly said attorneys have been working on a draft for President Donald Trump’s signature since early Wednesday morning aimed at reversing administration policy that resulted in the separation of more than 2,000 children.\nThe scope of the order was not immediately clear, including if it would address how the already-separated children would be reunified with their parents.\nThe official said that the order is primarily aimed at keeping families of future detainees together. It is intended as an interim measure until Congress acts.\nAmid backlash over his administration's "zero tolerance" policy, Trump said Wednesday that he planned to "sign something" on immigration and that he wanted to keep families together after they are detained for crossing the border illegally.\n“I’ll be signing something in a little while that’s going to do that," Trump said after he was asked about stopping the separation of families at the border. "I’ll be doing something that’s somewhat preemptive and ultimately will be matched by legislation, I’m sure.”\nTrump said he planned to sign something before he heads to Minnesota later Wednesday for a roundtable and rally.\nAP reported earlier that Homeland Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen was involved with the drafting of the action for Trump. The Justice Department needs to review the order before it was signed.\nThe action would come as Trump pushes for legislative action on the issue. But Nielsen reportedly believes there is little certainty that Congress will act.\nOn Wednesday, Trump again blamed Democrats for the problems and said Republicans wanted security.\n"But I am working on something - it never ends!" he tweeted.\nContributing: David Jackson\nCopyright 2017 USATODAY.com}}
{{‘The disc’s diversity feels less like a contrivance and more like a genuine sharing out of talents (David Kidman, Fatea)\nTales from the Tulgey Wood by Pennyless, Pennyless Music\nFairport Convention’s Liege and Leif, Songs of Leonard Cohen, The Times They Are A-Changin’ by Bob Dylan and Bridge Over Troubled Water by Simon and Garfunkel.\nAll these albums are considered not just classics, but a commentary on a generation and the ondition of our times.\nWhen Pennyless band released their third album, Tales from the Tulgey Wood in 2012, it prompted one reviewer to call it as “far removed from big beards and knitting your own cider as possible”.\nInspired by Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland, including the name Tulgey Wood itself and the opening track Jabberwocky, Pennyless weave a magic spell that the same reviewer fittingly called “one of the few times that an album can be described as ‘a mixed bag’ in a nice way”.\nThere are instrumentals with Napoleon Crossing the Alps/Matterhornpipe, Catharsis/Repression and Romanian Circle Dance, while guitarist Les Woods becomes Mark Knopfler (Dire Straits) and Ralph McTell with Way Over Yonder and The Caretaker.\nDespite the jigs and reels, occasional tweeness and a plethora of instruments, the Neil Young-esque Way Over Yonder, Winter Is Gone and The Caretaker make this an album far removed from big beards and knitting your own cider as possible Simon Stabler, Urban R(eal)ail Pink\nWinter is Gone, Tell it to the Bees and Will o’ the Wisp, Pennyless’s landmark number, make this album an absolute treasure chest.\nReview by Winston Brown}}
{{Donald Trump said he would be ‘signing something’ later today during this White House meeting on immigration (Picture: AP)\nDonald Trump has said he will be ‘signing something’ later today to stop immigrant families being split up at the US-Mexico border.\nThe president made the remarks Wednesday afternoon amid a growing outcry over distraught children being separated from their families and put in detention centers.\nEngland fans filmed singing anti-Semitic songs 'at World Cup in Russia'\nHe said: ‘If you’re really pathetically weak the country is going to be overrun by millions of people, and if you’re strong then you don’t have any heart… perhaps I’d rather be strong.’\nThe preisdent added: ‘We have compassion. We want to keep families together.’\nThe exact contents of the executive order have not yet been revealed, but will keep families who have traveled over the border illegally, Bloomberg reported.\nAdvertisement\nAdvertisement\nIt comes amid widespread condemnation of President Trump’s zero-tolerance policy on migrants at the US southern border after emotive footage showed deeply distressed children crying for their families.\nTrump’s potential u-turn came just a day after he appeared unrepentant about the policy at a meeting of small business leaders.\nHe blamed ‘fake news’ reports on children being put into detention camps, adding: ‘I don’t want children taken away from parents.\nTrump’s policy of separating children from their illegal immigrant parents has drawn widespread condemnation, with this snap of a two year-old Honduran girl used as an example of the suffering it has inflicted (Picture: Getty)\n‘When you prosecute the parents for coming in illegally, which should happen, you have to take the children away.’\nHe doubled-down hours after a series of tweets on the scandal, writing: ‘Crime in Germany is up 10% plus (officials do not want to report these crimes) since migrants were accepted.\n‘Others countries are even worse. Be smart America! ‘If you don’t have Borders, you don’t have a Country!\n‘Democrats are the problem.\nThey don’t care about crime and want illegal immigrants, no matter how bad they may be, to pour into and infest our Country, like (criminal gang) MS-13.\n‘They can’t win on their terrible policies, so they view them as potential voters!’\nThe president continued: ‘We must always arrest people coming into our Country illegally.\n‘Of the 12,000 children, 10,000 are being sent by their parents on a very dangerous trip, and only 2000 are with their parents, many of whom have tried to enter our Country illegally on numerous occasions. ‘#CHANGETHELAWS\nAdvertisement\nAdvertisement\n‘Now is the best opportunity ever for Congress to change the ridiculous and obsolete laws on immigration.\n‘Get it done, always keeping in mind that we must have strong border security.’}}
{{Linda Ronstadt On Making Music: 'I Knew How To Sing My Whole Life' The Mexican-American singer spoke with Terry Gross in 2013 about her career and her Parkinson's diagnosis. The documentary, The Sound of My Voice, traces Ronstadt's career from the late '60s onward.}}
{{Waterloo, ON, June 20, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- An actor and a top prize winner from the Canada-Wide Science Fair will join about 1,000 students looking to become change makers this summer at the award-winning enrichment and entrepreneurship program SHAD.\nThis year's SHAD program will take place at a record 16 host university campuses from coast to coast, with students being represented from all 10 provinces and three territories.\nGrade 10 student Eva Greyeyes who has a supporting role in the movie "Indian Horse," a film about an Indigenous boy sent to a residential school, will attend SHAD at the University of New Brunswick in Fredericton. "Indian Horse" premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival and has recently been sent to the big screen at cinemas.\n"It was so important for me to be able to represent a part of Canada's history that really needs to be told and it's important for me to be able to tell that story and tell it with other [Indigenous] people," Greyeyes said.\nWhen speaking about the film's theme of reconciliation, she said "there was no holding back."\n"I think the film coming out was a really big success and a really big step forward."\nGreyeyes first learned about SHAD from a poster and presentation in her school.\n"By the end of the talk, I just remember thinking ‘Oh my goodness, I have to do this! This sounds like one of the best opportunities that I could have in Canada.'"\nDuring the month, students attend interactive lectures and workshops from top university faculty and innovators in the community. A strong emphasis is placed on entrepreneurship at the program. Students learn how to start their own business to help solve a real world problem.\nShe is most excited to join other like-minded, ambitious, and creative students for the STEAM- (science, technology, engineering, arts and math) based program.\n"I've never really encountered a lot of people who love school and love learning as much as I do," Greyeyes said. "To be able to be in a group of students that are exactly like me and are there to do their best and learn, that seems like the best part of it."\nJordan Takkiruq is another participant at SHAD this summer.\nA grade 11 student from Gjoa Haven, Nunavut, Takkiruq is the only participant from within the Arctic Circle.\nLike Greyeyes, Takkiruq has a passion for the sciences, having competed in four Canada-Wide Science Fair competitions and winning a silver medal for his project on tooth decay.\nWhile he can't wait to learn about new facets of science and technology, Takkiruq is most looking forward to meeting students from all over the country and from diverse backgrounds. He believes that connecting different cultures is extremely valuable and will help advance global action against issues like climate change, an issue he witnesses first hand every day in his northern Inuit community.\n"You'd have all the different mindsets of all the populations of Canada, and hopefully one day the world, working towards the same cause of solving global crises," said Takkiruq. Takkiruq will be attending SHAD at Mount Allison University in Sackville, New Brunswick, one of three new campuses for SHAD in 2018 along with McGill University and University of Prince Edward Island.\n"We are thrilled that, thanks to our supporters, SHAD will be able to reach a record 1,000 students this summer," said SHAD President and CEO Tim Jackson.\n"These exceptional students from all parts of Canada spend the month of July together with their peers and mentors. We hope they end the month not only dreaming big, but empowered with the tools and passion they need to take risks, roll up their sleeves and get going."\nThis year, SHAD will commence on July 1 and end on July 27, after which participants will become part of a vast network of close to 17,000 Fellows including an NHL hockey executive, a serial entrepreneur on CBC's Dragon's Den, a NASA researcher and best-selling author.\n– 30 –\nABOUT SHAD:\nSHAD produces leaders for Canada through its award-winning, life-changing, pan-Canadian enrichment platform for high school students. Every year, SHAD helps almost 1,000 young Canadians tap into their full potential through an innovative month-long program at one of 16 partner university campuses. There, students apply STEAM (science-tech-engineering-arts-math) disciplines to real-life public policy and entrepreneurial challenges, forging insights and valuable relationships for life. Among its thriving global network of close to 17,000 SHAD Fellows and innovators are 32 Rhodes Scholars, 88 Loran Scholars, and 55 Schulich Leaders. For more information, visit www.shad.ca.\nAttachment\nTeddy Katz SHAD 647-505-8095 teddy@shad.ca}}
{{Any guesses as to who might open for them on this tour?\nReply\nThread\nLink\nHave they said yet when tickets are going on sale?? I'm desperate to get decent seats for NYC but I really need to have a job by then... Reply\nThread\nLink\nThey're already on sale! Reply\nParent\nThread\nLink\n........................................ .....\nim so bad at this ........................................ Reply\nParent\nThread\nLink\n?????????? the US dates?! They say "coming soon" on the website and my date's venue says August 11 Reply\nParent\nThread\nLink\nIs that website legit? It doesn't have my date listed anyway, but I find it hard to believe they're on sale already after the dates were just announced yesterday. Plus, the prices for the date I looked at are astronomical in comparison to the prices I saw listed for my date. I looked at the Wells Fargo Center's website for the Philly date (the date I looked at on the website) and it says "on sale soon" so I'm v skeptical of that site... Reply\nParent\nThread\nLink\nOP, you're a star Reply\nThread\nLink\ni am Andy confirmed. Reply\nParent\nThread\nLink\nI love this. Sam's Town 2 is coming! Reply\nThread\nLink\nthis video is not available Reply\nThread\nLink\nisn't there a way to bypass this by changing the youtube text? somebody HALP!\nit's on Spotify/YouTube and all the streaming services bb. wish i was more help here smh. Reply\nParent\nThread\nLink\nit's 2.47 am here and i will not go to sleep until i hear this song! lol\nedit: babe, you are of super help,always! your posts and comments are amazing! <3 <3\nEdited at 2017-07-30 12:48 am (UTC) Reply\nParent\nThread\nLink\nChange the link addy to youpak.com instead of YouTube.com and you'll be good to go! Reply\nParent\nThread\nLink\nsaving the day as always! thanks <3 Reply\nParent\nThread\nLink\nthere it IS (saving this for future help to others tbh). thank you bb. two of my faves helping each other out. <3 Reply\nParent\nThread\nLink\nalso, Rita ora dropped out of Sziget today and i really really hoped they filled in tbh. Reply\nThread\nLink\nI'll be going to Chicago show 😎 Reply\nThread\nLink\nrun for cover is sooo good.\nim excited for the album\nEdited at 2017-07-30 12:48 am (UTC) Reply\nThread\nLink\nIs it true him and Rufus wainwright fucked Reply\nThread\nLink\nWell is it Reply\nParent\nThread\nLink\nno clue i actually never heard those rumors specifically about them two. hence the pondering/thinking emoji.\nthere's rumors he's bi and he has a song i posted above (andy, you're a star) that speculates it but never quite confirmed.\ni vaguely remember one ONTD'er yearssss ago posting about how he got vibes from Brandon at a party where he met him in like 2005 or 2006 before he got married. said he was awkward and shy and that when Brandon was leaving he went to find him to say goodbye. lol. Reply\nParent\nThread\nLink\ni bet rufus christened his 6-head like simba but w his pp Reply\nParent\nThread\nLink\nWhere the video tho? Reply\nParent\nThread\nLink\nkinda prefer this jam over "the man" but both are perfect tbh Reply\nThread\nLink\nONTD, are you buying tickets to their upcoming tour?\nmy backup plan was to visit my sister in LA over the inevitable date there but idk if i can swing it. praying for that second leg rn\nEdited at 2017-07-30 01:01 am (UTC) my backup plan was to visit my sister in LA over the inevitable date there but idk if i can swing it. praying for that second leg rn Reply\nThread\nLink\nsmh. *hug*\nBFlow turn on your location for missing my bb's city!\nthey better add dates to this run for those who got shafted or an entire 2nd leg. Reply\nParent\nThread\nLink\nLearn more about LiveJournal Ratings in Hello! Your entry got to top-25 of the most popular entries in LiveJournal!Learn more about LiveJournal Ratings in FAQ Reply\nThread\nLink\nONTD, are you buying tickets to their upcoming tour?\nI would if they were coming thru TX. Too bad they're not this leg. Reply\nThread\nLink\ni'm gonna try to get tickets for MSG. i know they're gonna be at the barclays but i saw them there already so i'm trying to #diversify Reply\nThread\nLink\ni thought "the man" was arcade fire when i first heard it Reply\nThread\nLink\nI'm actually obsessed with The Man.\noh shit they're playing Milwaukee and I could totally go to that how much is it\nI don't have $125 for this\nEdited at 2017-07-30 01:56 am (UTC) Reply\nThread\nLink\nNice. I like this more than the man Reply\nThread\nLink\nhope you had/have a happy birthday! Reply\nThread\nLink\nthank you bb. <3 Reply\nParent\nThread\nLink\nI always wanna know but where are those Kit gifs from? Reply\nThread\nLink\nHBO mockumentary 7 Days in Hell. Reply\nParent\nThread\nLink\nWill NYC tickets be sold out by October? I'm saving and can't spend a dime. Reply\nThread\nLink}}
{{The study also revealed a degree of brain plasticity, which indicates that the brain is able to adapt itself. (Source: File Photo) The study also revealed a degree of brain plasticity, which indicates that the brain is able to adapt itself. (Source: File Photo)\nIs your son or daughter keen on learning to play a guitar or piano? Allow them, as according to a study, playing any musical instrument throughout life may help improve the connection between the brain’s hearing area and the motor zone. The findings showed that musical training produces an increase in audio-motor interactions in the right hemisphere at rest.\n“This indicates that when a musician trains and spends many years learning to play a musical instrument, there are more effective connections between the auditory and motor systems, which are the regions mainly involved in playing an instrument,” said Maraa Angeles Palomar-Garcia, researcher at the Universitat Jaume I (UJI) in Spain.\nFurther, the research also revealed an adaptation in musicians’ brain areas responsible for controlling hand movement. Specifically, participants with musical training had reduced connectivity between the motor regions that control both hands, but may have greater autonomy between their hands.\nThis, “may reflect a greater skill with both hands for these musicians, compared to the participants who had no musical training, due to the need to use both hands in an independent and coordinated way to play their instrument,” Palomar-Garcia explained.\nFor the study, published in the journal Cerebral Cortex, the team studied the impact of music training on the brain through both functional and structural images of the brain in rest through high field magnetic resonance imaging.\nThe study also revealed a degree of brain plasticity, which indicates that the brain is able to adapt itself.\n“Studies on brain plasticity associated with learning are fundamental to understanding the factors that determine the flexibility of the brain to adapt to a particular situation,” says César Avila.\nFor all the latest Lifestyle News, download Indian Express App}}
{{* Says rates on hold as long as three conditions met\n* Poloz says was never intent to signal imminent tightening\n* Drops reference to “persistent strength” of C$\n* Analysts expect Poloz policy to maintain status quo\nBy Randall Palmer and Louise Egan\nOTTAWA, July 17 (Reuters) - The Bank of Canada said on Wednesday it will hold its benchmark interest rate steady at 1 percent while the economy remains fragile and inflation stays low, but that it sees rates rising if the economy performs in line with expectations.\nThe policy announcement, the first under new Governor Stephen Poloz, delivered roughly the same message as those of his predecessor, Mark Carney, over the past year: The next move is a rate hike, not a cut, although it won’t be any time soon.\nStill, Poloz, who took over at the helm of the central bank in June, was more explicit in stating that the continuation of steady rates depended on three key trends.\n“As long as there is significant slack in the Canadian economy, the inflation outlook remains muted, and imbalances in the household sector continue to evolve constructively, the considerable monetary policy stimulus currently in place will remain appropriate,” Poloz said at a news conference to announce the bank’s decision.\n“Over time, as the normalization of these conditions unfolds, a gradual normalization of policy interest rates can also be expected, consistent with achieving the 2 percent inflation target.”\nBut he downplayed the so-called hawkish bias in the statement and made it clear any move was still far in the future.\n“We never saw that as some sort of signal that we were on an imminent tightening phase or anything like that,” he said. “Rather it was to help people understand that these are not normal times. So you need to be more prepared for a gradual return to normality.”\nCanada’s export-reliant economy has struggled to stay on a growth track after a relatively speedy recovery from the world economic crisis. Inflationary pressures remain muted.\nThe bank did not provide specific thresholds that could trigger a rate increase.\nPoloz listed an array of factors the bank would watch, including more U.S. and global growth momentum, but said it would mostly be a judgment call by the bank.\nHis comments came as Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said the U.S. central bank still planned to start scaling back its massive bond purchase program later this year, but it could change those plans if the outlook shifted.\nPoloz said Bernanke’s recent remarks on the so-called tapering of the Fed’s stimulus measures were helpful.\n“Markets are learning from that, as are we,” he said.\nCAUTIOUS\nFollowing the decision and the new governor’s comments, traders slightly bid up the price of shorter-term bonds, sending yields lower, showing there was little concern the central bank would rush to boost interest rates.\n“They tweaked - very, very slightly - the eventual tightening bias, but not in any meaningful way, I don’t think,” said Mark Chandler, head of fixed income and currency strategy at the Royal Bank of Canada.\n“Overall, I think it was quite cautious. I’d hate to paint it specifically dovish or hawkish.”\nThe Canadian dollar weakened to a session low against the U.S. dollar after the statement, sliding to C$1.0445 versus the greenback, or 95.74 U.S. cents. But it quickly regained most of the lost ground.\nThe central bank has held its overnight rate at 1 percent since September 2010, the longest period between rate changes since the 1950s. Since April 2012, it has been hinting at rate hikes to come, making it the only central bank in the Group of Seven major economies to have a hawkish bias, albeit a mild one.\nMarket players don’t expect a move until the fourth quarter of 2014.\nFLOODS, STRIKE HIT QUARTER\nThe bank cut its forecast for second-quarter growth sharply - to 1 percent from 1.8 percent - largely due to the impact of catastrophic flooding in Alberta and a strike by construction workers in Quebec. But it said third-quarter growth would more than compensate for that decline. It forecast third-quarter growth of 3.8 percent, up from its previous estimate of 2.3 percent.\nThat meant the volatility of the two quarters would not play into its policy choices.\nThe bank said the economy would grow 1.8 percent this year, up from its previous estimate of 1.5 percent. It expected growth of 2.7 percent each year in 2014 and 2015. The 2014 forecast was lowered from the 2.8 percent previously estimated.\nThe overall growth outlook is little changed from its April forecast, and the bank sees a return to full capacity and inflation rising to its 2 percent target by mid-2015.\nOn Canada’s once-hot housing market, Poloz did not rule out a rebound even after signs of cooling earlier this year. Household debt has eased but could also pick up again, he said.\n“As I read the situation right now, the new data that we have from the housing sector is just as consistent with a soft landing as they might be with a rebound,” he said.\nWhile past statements have referred to the “persistent strength of the Canadian dollar,” the currency has weakened in recent weeks and the bank avoided the phrase.\n“In general, we would prefer not to offer a running commentary on the dollar in any case,” Poloz said.}}
{{Somalilandtimes.net Unemployment And Goverment Corruption Blamed For Driving Youth Into Their Death After A Boat Carrying Over 500 Migrants Mainly From Somaliland Capsizes In The Mediterranean\nHargeysa,April 29,2016(SL-Times)-The death of over 150 young Somalilanders earlier this month in the Mediterranean sea after the boat in which they were travelling capsized has brought fourth an outpouring of grieve across this nation of 4 millions but the loss has also unleashed a flood of criticism and condemnation directed at president Ahmed Silanyo’s government for failing to tackle the conditions that force thousands of the country’s youth every year to leave their homes to seek better prospects in western Europe at the expense of risking their lives whilst making the dangerous crossing of the high seas to that continent.The boat which was crammed with over 500 regugees and migrants mostly from the Horn of Africa region had apparently departed from some where at the north African coast in between Libya and Egypt on around April 23,2016.The tragedy happened as the vessel was heading for Italy.However in Somaliland itself the news of the incident started to trickle only about 5 days later when Facebook postings by some of the victims’ relatives and friends were shared. As the local media scrambled to fill the news coverage gap ,Somaliland became overwhelmed by shock and grieve.On April 18, president Silanyo made a puplic statement in which he expressed his condolences to the families of the young Somalilanders who lost their lives in the sinking while calling for a national conference on the issue of youth emigration and human trafficking.A few days later vice-president Abdirahaman Saylici announced boastfully that the government was forming a new police unit to combat human trafficking activities in the country.But neither the president’s expression of sympathy to the bereaved over the tragic loss nor Mr Saylici’s promise to crack down on human traffickers who smuggle young Somalilanders across borders all the way to Europe has been sufficient enough to silence the public outcry trigerred by the so many young lives claimed by the cruel sea. In local media interviews ,families of the victims were harshly critical of Mr Silanyo for doing nothing to address the the massive unemployment among the youth which most people see as the main reason why many young adults have for years in a row been pushed to leave their homeland in pursuit of better opprtunities elsewhere.Among the many people supporting this view is Amina Wais who has not yet fully recovered from grieve after losing a son in a similar drowning incident off the Linyan coast in 2015.”My child would have remained here in Hargeysa had he been able to find a job but since he couldn’t he had to leave despite my cries for him to stay” she said. The majority of those who perished in this month’s sinking were graduates of universities and colleges.Many of the neighbourhood and school friends they left behind have cited the government’s epedemic corruption and nepotism practices as another critical contributing factor for the desperation driving many unemployed young women and men to life threathening emigration to Europe . “There is no doubt that they decide to leave out of despair and anger specially when they see government jobs and contracts given to the relatives of those in power and the meagre public resources are blundered instead of being used for funding youth employment programs if not for the common good” said Khader Hussein whose school mate was among the Somalilanders who drowned in the southern Mideterranean sea earlier this month.In fact among youth circles ,it is not difficult to notice the special resentment felt toward the First Lady Amina Waris and her son-in-law Bashe Awil for their preference for appionting friends from the UK Somaliland diasporra in both senior and junior govrnment jobs despite lacking minimum qualifications.Mohamed Omer ,28,who doesn’t conceal the fact that he will soon leave in the hope of making it to Europe explained the demoralizing effects of government corruption on the unemployed university graduates seeking jobs”one graduates and starts looking for a particular job in the civil service only to see it given to some one without merit who probably spent most of his adult life on social benefits abroad, then you try to get funding for this wonderful business idea only to eventually give it up because there are no commercial banks in the country to lend you the start up money… so on and on… until you end up with no other option except to either join Al-Shabaab or take the risk of crossing the Medterranean in an unseaworthy boat and I ‘ve chosen to try the latter”. Despite Somaliland’s substantial livestock,fisheries and minerals resorces,yet the potentiality of its local economy to grow fast enough so as to produce an acceptable level of growth in jobs has been constrained by the country’s lack of own commercial banking services and international deplomatic recognition as well.The introduction of commercial banking in the country has been opposed successfully by an unholy alliance between some government officials,Wahabist clerks and business tycoons.In fact as Mohamed Omer pointed out many viable business ideas keep not seeing the light of the day due to lack of financing.Also Somaliland has been unable to take on labour intensive projects for the development of its economic infrastructure and services such as roads and ports since its both public and private sectors are desciminated against borrowing from international financial institutions due to the stigmized status of belonging to a diplomatically unrecognized country. So far the incompetent Silanyo government has not come up with any long term concrete proposals for addressing the youth exodus from the country.On the contrary ,most goverment officials and supporters of Silanyo’s Kulmiye party who spoke about the issue tended to put the blame on the drowned victims for risking their lives and their parents for financing their travel.The divided opposition tried to capitalize on the public dismay but had nothing to offer( in terms of dealing with the challenges posed by the risky emigration of young Somalilanders ) except Absentia funeral prayer known as Salaatul Gha’ib whis is performed when a Muslim dies in a location where there are no Muslims to pray for him or her.While some of the country’s Islamic clerks declared that risking one’s life was a sin tantamount to suicid which according to Islamic theology is punishable in hell,Al-Shabaab jihadists spokesman Ali Mahmoud Raghe said that his movement was saddened by the death of hundreds of young Somalis at sea. The one thing that remains clear though is that Somaliland will not be able to tackle the youth emigration crisis unless the socio-economic,governance and diplomatic factors causing this phenomena are addressed both locally and internationally. COMMENTS}}
{{A Vancouver registered massage therapist (RMT) has now been arrested and charged for allegedly assaulting his clients and police are appealing for other victims to come forward.\nPolice say in March 2017, Vancouver Police Department’s Sex Crimes Unit began investigations of sexual assaults against Bodhi Jones, an RMT who was working near West 7th Avenue and Burrard Street.\nSeveral of his female patients reported to police that they were allegedly assaulted by Jones during massage treatments between September 2016 and March 2017.\nOver the next year, officers working on the case identified several victims.\nOn May 29, 2018, Crown Counsel approved four charges of sexual assault against Jones.\n“Sex assaults are some of the most challenging investigations, and solving them is a priority for the VPD,” says VPD Const. Jason Doucette. “We are publicly releasing this information with the hope of providing those affected with a direct point of contact at the VPD. We want to hear from anyone who feels they may have been assaulted by Mr. Jones.”\nREAD MORE: Vancouver police issue warning after woman sexually assaulted in Yaletown\nDetectives are urging any more victims to come forward.\nAnyone who may have been assaulted by Bodhi Jones, or has information they feel could be important for the police to know, is asked to contact the VPD Sex Crimes Unit at 604-717-0603 or Crime Stoppers at 1-800-222-8477.}}
{{The newly formed Los Angeles darkwave collective Ashrr has unveiled its first single, titled “Medicine Man.” Originally premiering on New Noise Magazine in April, the video for “Medicine Man” was directed by William Morrison, best known for his work with Skinny Puppy, ohGr, and Front Line Assembly. With a new single on the way, “Medicine Man” is the first taste of the group’s upcoming debut EP.\nAshrr\nWebsite, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube\nIlker Yücel (Ilker81x)}}
{{Donald Trump delivered a speech to the National Federation of Independent Businesses yesterday (June 19) that included a claim which left many listeners confused.\nHis remarks centered on the importance of small businesses, and covered one of his favorite bugbears, NAFTA. Apparently as an example of how the US is “treated horribly” under the deal, Trump digressed into this anecdote:\nThere was a story two days ago, in a major newspaper, talking about people living in Canada, coming into the United States, and smuggling things back into Canada because the tariffs are so massive. The tariffs to get common items back into Canada are so high that they have to smuggle them in. They buy shoes, then they wear them. They scuff them up. They make them sound old or look old. No, we’re treated horribly. Dairy. Dairy. Two-hundred and seventy-five percent tariff. So basically that’s a barrier without saying it’s a barrier.\nTrump’s comment, which appeared to refer to this story from the New York Post, suggested that Canada is putting high tariffs on shoes made in the US, much like the tariffs Canada puts on dairy products to protect its own industry. To avoid the high markups, Canadians are traveling to the US, buying shoes, scuffing them to evade paying duties on their new purchase at the border, and smuggling them into the country.\nIt’s a “time-honoured Canadian pastime,” as the Toronto Star’s Washington correspondent Daniel Dale put it, for Canadians to shop in the US and sneak a couple items past customs. But Trump’s comments included some fundamental misunderstandings that led many journalists to take to Twitter to express their bewilderment. They even inspired a Twitter Moment.\nFor one thing, the US makes almost no shoes at this stage, despite the very high tariffs it places on footwear. More than 98% of footwear sold in the US is made elsewhere, mostly in Asia. To add to the confusion, Canadians coming into the US and shopping at American businesses is good for the US.\nI'm scratching my head — isn't the smuggling part our problem? The cross-border shopping is great for the US, non? — Jennifer Ditchburn (@jenditchburn) June 19, 2018\nIn other words: in this shoe example, Canadians are spending money at US businesses to buy Asian-made goods. Yay America. Then they're – sometimes – hiding these products from Canadian customs to avoid Canadian tariffs on Asian goods. Why is this bad for America? Who knows. — Daniel Dale (@ddale8) June 19, 2018\nThe US footwear industry’s business and trade association, Footwear Distributors and Retailers of America (FDRA), issued a blunt reply in response to the comments. “The President seems misinformed about footwear trade,” said Matt Priest, president and CEO of the FDRA. “NAFTA is not treating footwear consumers in America unfairly, the American government itself has not lowered footwear duties in a meaningful way in over 80 years.”\nPriest also stated: “On behalf of the American footwear industry, we welcome anyone from anywhere to come and purchase shoes in America. It helps both our brands and retailers grow. Period.”}}
{{Story highlights Donald Trump will lay out his immigration policy in a speech next week\nUntil then, Twitter is the best we can do to search for clues\nWashington (CNN) Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump is expected to lay out his position on immigration in a speech next week in Arizona. But right now, very little is clear about Trump's immigration policy, other than the fact that he has hinted at a "softening" on his position on undocumented immigrants, while at the same time saying he would not be flip-flopping.\nIn an interview with CNN's Anderson Cooper Thursday, Trump didn't clarify whether he still supported forcibly deporting millions of undocumented immigrants, although he did suggest any solution would take time and that securing the border would be his first priority. He also said he would only support a path to legalization for undocumented immigrants who first left the US and returned.\nAnyone following Trump's presidential bid knows that one source can be trusted to usually mystify and occasionally clarify Trump's minute-by-minute thoughts on the news of the day: his personal Twitter account.\nThese tweets help trace Trump's thoughts on illegal immigration from his controversial campaign announcement last June up to Friday morning.\nJune 2015}}
{{TORONTO, July 18 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index opened higher on Thursday, led by gains in financials and a jump in gold miners, as investors processed comments from U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. The Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index was up 50.36 points, or 0.40 percent, at 12,619.13 shortly after the open. The index rose as far as 12,632.34, a six-week high.}}
{{OTTAWA – With the clock ticking toward a potential work stoppage at Canada Post, lawyer and author William Kaplan was appointed Friday to seek an end to the months-long labour dispute at the Crown agency.\nIn appointing the seasoned mediator and arbitrator to lead a team of interveners, Labour Minister MaryAnn Mihychuk said her hope was the Toronto-based Kaplan could avert threatened job action by members of the Canadian Union of Postal Workers.\n“I am hopeful that this will bring a new perspective to the negotiating table, which could motivate the parties to find a solution and move beyond their current impasse,” Mihychuk said in a statement.\n“I continue to closely monitor the situation.”\nThe union issued a 72-hour strike notice Thursday, accusing Canada Post of forcing a labour disruption.\nNine months of contract talks between the Crown corporation and CUPW reached a stalemate this week with both sides saying they remained far apart on key issues including pay scales for rural letter carriers and proposed changes to pensions for future employees.\nAdding fuel to its argument that its ability to meet the union’s contract demands is severely restricted, Canada Post revealed Friday that it earned a profit of about $1 million in the second quarter of operations this year, a result it termed “essentially break-even” compared with a before-tax loss of $31 million during the same period a year ago.\nIt credited recent cost-cutting and a growing parcel delivery business for the small profit.\nHowever, the fiscal black ink was far overshadowed by a daunting pension obligation, Canada Post warned.\n“Canada Post’s pension solvency deficit . . . is estimated at $8.1 billion as of July 1, 2016, up from $6.1 billion at December 31, 2015 (using the market value of plan assets),” the agency said.\n“The large size and volatility of this obligation compared to the corporation’s revenue and profit presents a major challenge to the corporation’s financial self-sustainability.”\nCanada Post wants move from a defined benefit pension plan to a defined contribution plan for new employees, a move CUPW said would create a two-tiered pension system.\nThe union has been arguing for wage parity between rural and urban postal workers, claiming that rural carriers earn, on average, roughly 30 per cent less than city carriers.\nMihychuk indicated Thursday the pay equity issue should be taken off the table.\n“The prime minister and this government is fully committed to pay equity,” she told reporters outside a Liberal caucus meeting in Saguenay, Que.\n“We actually do not believe that pay equity should be a negotiable item. It’s the law of the land and needs to be implemented,” she said.\nIt was not immediately clear whether a work stoppage — if it happens — would result in a disruption of mail and parcel deliveries.\nCUPW said Thursday the strike notice it delivered to management did not envision a full-blown walkout.}}
{{Police say they believe more victims are out there\nA Vancouver registered massage therapist has been charged with four counts of sexual assault.\nPolice said Wednesday they began investigating Bodhi Jones in March 2017 after female patients alleged that they were assaulted during treatments at a clinic near West 7 Avenue and Burrard Street.\nThey claim the assaults took place between September 2017 and March 2017.\nJones “voluntarily resigned his registration” during an investigation arising from his conduct,” said the College of Massage Therapists of B.C., rendering him no longer authorized to practice as an RMT in Vancouver.\nPolice believe there could be other victims who have not come forward.\n“Sex assaults are some of the most challenging investigations, and solving them is a priority for the VPD,” said Const. Jason Doucette.\n“We are publicly releasing this information with the hope of providing those affected with a direct point of contact at the VPD. We want to hear from anyone who feels they may have been assaulted by Mr. Jones.”\nAnyone who may have been a victim or has further information is asked to call police at 604-717-0603. Those wishing to remain anonymous should call CrimeStoppers at 1-800-222-8477.\n@katslepian\nkatya.slepian@bpdigital.ca\nLike us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter.}}
{{The Canadian Press\nThe Quebec Liberal Party (PLQ) has launched a website in which it attacks the credibility of the Coalition Avenir Quebec (CAQ) and its leader, Francois Legault.\nThe website, testdecredibilite.com, "reports the promises of the CAQ and tries to demonstrate the impossibility of achieving them."\nMinisters Dominique Anglade, Sebastien Proulx and Carlos Leitao are featured on the website in short videos.\nThe videos cover a breadth of issues, including the CAQ's proposal that kindergarten begin at age 4, and an overall shortage of manpower.\nThe Liberal Ministers ask CAQ party leader Francois Legault to answer questions and "stop hiding."\nThe CAQ has dominated public opinion polls for several months, making them the Liberals' main opponent in October's general election.}}
{{VIRAL PAYBACK: Rapper Who Showed White Child Being Lynched in Music Video Gets Knocked Out Cold on Stage (Video)\nFOLLOW US!\nA video showing a disgruntled man bum-rushing rapper XXXTentacion and sucker punching the performer has gone viral in recent days. The attack rendered the tough-talking entertainer laid out on stage and unconscious.\nThe attack, however, was sparked before the the hip-hop singer released a disturbing music video this week showcasing a white boy with a noose around his neck being lynched while an African-American boy watches him die.\nThe attack in fact occurred in June in San Diego but the video of that beat down has gone viral since the singer debuted his racially offensive music video Tuesday.\nMany viewers acknowledged they know the footage of the rapper getting cold cocked was from a previous concert but were happy to share it regardless as a token of payback for XXXTentacion’s troubling music video.\nFOX News described the controversial video below:\nThe video “Look At Me!” debuted on Tuesday and features imagery depicting police brutality, violent protests, and the 19-year-old Florida-based rapper placing a white child’s head in a noose on stage in front of a crowded theater and then hoisting him up into the air. The child’s feet are shown dangling and twitching and then they suddenly stop. The casting director of the video LaShawnna Stanley told that finding parents who would allow their child to be hanged on stage was a challenge. “We had to delay the video because the mom that originally agreed and said okay but when she got there she didn’t feel comfortable. We delayed for a week,” said Stanley.\nAnti-White Rapper XXXTENACION who Placed Noose around a White Child’s Neck in his Music Video KNOCKED UNCONSCIOUS at His Concert#Karma pic.twitter.com/7elCdGoUJX — Red Pill (@IWillRedPillYou) September 16, 2017\nHELP SUPPORT True Pundit HERE on Patreon}}
{{TORONTO, July 25 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index was little changed on Thursday as a jump in Teck Resources Ltd and gains in commodity prices helped offset disappointing quarterly reports from Potash Corp and Goldcorp Inc. The Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index unofficially closed down 3.16 points, or 0.02 percent, at 12,669.14. Six of the 10 main sectors on the index were higher.}}
{{177 musical acts gathered last weekend for three days in Indio, California for the annual Coachella Valley Music & Arts Festival.\nSome musicians are more well known than others, but everyone put on a show for the around 80,000 fans that traveled from near and far to attend the famed festival.\nIf you didn’t get a chance to attend last weekend and won’t make it for the upcoming weekend two, we put together the most awesome photos of musical performances we could find so you can live vicariously here.\nBusiness Insider Emails & Alerts Site highlights each day to your inbox. Email Address Join\nFollow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram.}}
{{Back in March when Drake released his project More Life , he did something unusual: He didn’t make it an Apple Music exclusive. Despite having a long, successful history with the service—he actually helped announce its launch in 2015—he released the “ playlist ” on Spotify and Tidal as well. It broke streaming records . After a 2016 that saw more than 40 albums released as exclusives for one streaming platform or another, it was as clear an indication as any that their allure was fading. Labels aren't keen on them ; artists are don't either . Even Apple is backing away from them like Homer Simpson into the bushes. In a word, they seem to be over. Unless you’re Jay-Z.\nEarly yesterday morning, the artist formerly known as Shawn Carter topped off a Father's Day weekend of welcoming twins and bailing out dads by announcing a new visual album, 4:44 , that would be arriving June 30. According to the album announcement, made with a snippet of the track “Adnis” (below), it will be a Tidal exclusive—available only to current subscribers and Sprint customers, who are eligible for a free six-month trial of Tidal’s premium HiFi service. Is that a needlessly convoluted way to hear a new Jay-Z album? Yes. Is it the kind of thing only an artist who also founded the streaming platform in question can pull off? That too. But it almost might be one of the last high-profile streaming exclusives you see.\nLast year, streaming album exclusives were all the rage. Drake’s Views debuted on Apple Music and set up a residency on the Billboard 200. Beyoncé’s Lemonade and Kanye West’s The Life of Pablo both debuted on Tidal. But later in 2016, things started to turn. Frank Ocean pulled off a passive-aggressive okey-doke for the ages, fulfilling his Def Jam contract with Endless and then immediately giving Apple Music the exclusive on his independently owned (and superior) follow-up album, Blonde . That hit parade led to Lucian Grainge, head of Def Jam parent Universal Music, issuing an order that Universal artists could no longer do exclusives , a move that music analyst Mark Mulligan says had "a huge impact" on the popularity of exclusives. Soon thereafter, Lady Gaga took a typically Gaga stand against exclusives : “I told my label that if they signed those contracts with Apple Music and Tidal, I’d leak all my own new music.”\nMeanwhile, Spotify has shunned the concept of new-release album exclusives. As the streaming service with the most users, it's never really needed them to bring in listeners. The company has, however, offered to promote new albums to its 140 million users —like it did with Katy Perry's—as a way of showing its muscle in the music industry. Spotify is also, according to a TechCrunch report this week, experimenting with sponsored songs, selling record labels prime placement on Spotify's free service. Both of these methods bring attention to both the streaming platform and the artists on it, but do so without restricting the music to a single service.\nThings are different for Jay-Z, not only because his hyphen is back . As a founder and “co-owner” of Tidal, he's not just an artist, but an entrepreneur focused on increasing the value of his company. Considering Sprint picked up a 33 percent stake in that company earlier this year, 4:44 is a great return on investment—and an even better one given that he owns his record label, Roc Nation, and can thus release his new music wherever he wants. If labels don’t like doing exclusives and Apple itself is laying off of them because of it, the golden age of the album exclusive maybe drawing to an end for all but independent artists like Jay, Frank Ocean, and Chance the Rapper (who also released an album last year as an Apple Music exclusive).\nThe larger question, though, is whether this will be mutually beneficial for Jay-Z, Tidal, and Sprint. Presumably, the original point of exclusives was to get listeners to sign up for new streaming services. In a world dominated by Spotify, a new album by Frank Ocean or Beyoncé was a reason to sign up for Apple Music or Tidal. For a while, that trick worked. But those albums always ended up on other services—or simply for sale as digital downloads—and by now most people have settled on their streaming platform of choice. Labels and services may still appeal to listeners with new albums from time to time, but as Mulligan notes, even if exclusives are not dead "Jay-Z is not going to put them back in good health."\nStill, you'd have to think Jay-Z and his camp believe there's room for growth; it’s hard to imagine he’d only want 4:44 to be available to Tidal and Sprint's 45 million customers . (He’d probably also prefer it not just get pirated like crazy, as was the case when 500,000 people illegally nabbed The Life of Pablo after its Tidal debut.) That growth won't come from Jay-Z superfans, though; anyone hardcore enough to switch mobile carriers for a new album is probably already on Tidal, where Jay's catalog lives exclusively . And while some existing Sprint customers will take this opportunity to try out Tidal, they might not stick around after their six-month trial is up. So in the end, this deal is unlikely to bring in that many more users to Tidal or Sprint—it'll simply cross-pollinate the ones they already have.\nThat’s always been the problem with exclusives. They’re good at bringing people in, but it’s almost impossible to tell if those new customers stick around. When Jay-Z released his last album, Magna Carta Holy Grail , by selling a million copies to Samsung , he gave his album a built-in audience. (And gave himself an instant platinum album.) This time around, though, it's hard to see what this does for Sprint or Tidal other than provide a perk for their existing users. As exclusives start to lose their shine, this release may work, but it’ll be amongst the last of its kind to do so. That’s just business, man .}}
{{Ritzy Bryan had this to say: "We wanted to share this album track with the people who have supported us to give them a glimpse of what we've been working on, and this track is right at the heart of our new record.\n"It's magical and lonely, like a night-time walk in the desert when you're trying to escape from yourself and the chaos you've created." He added, "We've definitely made a colourful, mystical collage with this record, partly because of our surroundings.\n"Those multi-coloured sunsets and the primeval elements of nature in the south-west - it's emboldened our imaginations in the songwriting and the production." Watch the video - here.}}
{{by Orlando Enrique Fiol\nOrlando Enrique Fiol, 44, is a doctoral student in music theory in the Universe of Pennsylvania’s music department. He can speak seven languages and is also a professional pianist, keyboardist, percussionist and pedagogue. In 1987, LaGuardia High School of the Performing Arts on the Upper West Side of Manhattan arranged two performances with Fiol and Stevie Wonder, where they played a duet in front of the student body. The local resident has also been completely blind since infancy. Here, he takes us on a journey into his world full of sound.\nI live in a world where sounds and silences are signs, where the “writing” is usually on the tongue rather than on the wall. A pre-dawn plethora of singing birds means the sun will come out soon. The bubbling of bitter coffee in a stovetop espresso maker means that a cup of joe is on its way. The ascending pitch of dripping water lets me know when my thermos is getting full. The whoosh and slush of passing cars means it has rained. Synthesized speech on my desktop means Windows has booted successfully. TalkBack on an Android means the phone is on. Acoustic changes in air reflections mean I’m passing tall trees or imposing buildings. A simple concrete wall at ear level can keep me walking a straight line.\nSilences are inherently baffling. After a blizzard, streets get so quiet that each falling snowflake has its own fluffy transient, but those same deserted streets after dark can bode danger. Conversational lulls can signify nascent love or awkward doubt; a verbally uninvited romantic gesture can be misinterpreted.\nWhat is valuable in this sound-centered world?\nClear communication makes me feel secure and aware of where I stand. A gentle statement of arrival or departure saves me from the embarrassment of talking to myself. Whispers and hand signals put me on edge, to say nothing of eye rolls or shoulder shrugs. A few cents difference satisfies a cashier and tunes a piano. My prodigious musical memory means more work and prestige.\nWhat doesn’t work in this sound-centered world? Colors are mere myths.\nMakeup prohibits me from adoring beautiful female faces while the rest of the world marvels at beauty I cannot hope to perceive.\nEmoticons in emails or text messages waste space. Paths with open spaces are directionally disorienting. Silent movie scenes or nonverbal funny gags make me feel left out of poignant moments or inside jokes. Visual cooking instructions urge me to throw up my hands and turn on the microwave.\nCan there be too much sound?\nI hate feeling alone in crowds, where everyone is talking to each other but not to me. It’s hard to approach a random stranger without knowing with whom they keep company or if I am potentially placing myself in danger. In noisy bars, jukeboxes, conversational cacophony and the clatter of glasses beckon me to walk out, but streets full of passing vehicles blaring loud music and honking discordant horns are no better. Multi-tasking is great when sounds are timbrally different and spatially separated, but too much sound in an enclosed space can become unmanageably noisy.\nCan this world be shared?\nIf you can see and hear, my world is a second-class subset of yours, where conventionally appealing looks get you jobs and dates. You don’t have to wait long on street corners for directions if it’s too wet or cold to bust out your GPS. You can wrap yourself in nonverbal cues or visual euphemisms to avoid impolite questions and heartbreaking responses.\nYou don’t need someone around to tell you if your day’s clothes are clean. You can get into a car and adjust everything from the seat position and air conditioning without inquiring where the controls are situated. You can pick your own produce at a supermarket or on an enterprising immigrant’s mobile farmers’ market truck.\nYou can enjoy sightseeing rather than radio surf in a generic hotel room. Paintings possess actual intellectual intent. Colors liberally pepper your perceptions. Good news! Commonality is actually abundant between our supposedly disparate worlds. Hanging out with sound-centered people like me might improve your aural perceptions, while spending time with “sightlings” like you might connect many non-Braille dots for me.\nSo the next time you see me or one of my cohorts looking lost on a street corner or sadly sitting at a table amidst a bustling party, don’t just walk on by; make some noise! Marvin Gaye sang it best: “Talk to me, and you will see what’s goin’ on. You tell me what’s goin’ on; I’ll tell you what’s goin’ on.” If life is a river, its droplets, rapids and waterfalls matter just as much as sunlight’s sheen on its banks. Let’s not leave each other to drown in this river when we can laugh and cry, shout and sing, touch and hug.\nFor more information about Fiol, email Ofiol@verizon.net.}}
{{OTTAWA – An 11th-hour effort was underway Thursday to avert a work stoppage at Canada Post, even as both sides in the labour dispute dug in their heels, declaring an apparent impasse.\nWith a strike mandate set to expire at midnight, the federal government stepped in, saying it would appoint a special mediator in hopes of breaking the stalemate.\nLabour Minister MaryAnn Mihychuk offered the mediation service late Wednesday after months of bitter disagreement, and encouraged both sides to come together.\n“I expect both parties to work with this special mediator to come to a resolution and avoid a work stoppage,” Mihychuk said in a brief statement.\n“I continue to closely monitor the situation.”\nOfficials from both Canada Post and the Canadian Union of Postal Workers appeared to go into a media lockdown shortly after the minister’s announcement, refusing to say whether there was any room for movement in the talks.\nBut the union said it was retaining its right to serve the Crown corporation with a 72-hour strike notice should the mediation effort fail before midnight.\nAs of late Wednesday, the union was accusing Canada Post of stalling the talks by continuing to make unacceptable demands.\nThe Crown agency also complained Wednesday that union bargainers were being unrealistic.\n“The union continues to press for more than $1 billion in demands with no appreciation for the current and troubling future state of the postal service caused by declining mail volumes and increasing pension obligations,” said Canada Post spokesman Jon Hamilton.\n“Canada Post remains committed to negotiating agreements that are fair to our employees, and allow us to continue to provide affordable pricing and service to Canadians.”\nA pay equity issue pitting rural and urban carriers against each other and a proposed move from a defined benefit pension plan to a defined contribution plan for new employees are the main stumbling blocks in the dispute.\nThe union claims rural postal workers earn, on average, nearly 30 per cent less than city carriers.\n“Canada Post’s proposal on pay equity (for rural carriers) was nothing more than an attempt to complicate and delay that process,” the union told its members in a statement.\n“Canada Post wants to drag out pay equity with binding arbitration, a process that could take years or even decades.”\nOther issues include “precarious part-time and temporary employment, no improvements in staffing, the ability to close all 493 protected CUPW staffed retail locations eliminating up to 1,200 full-time jobs,” the union said.\nShould the union give formal notice of a strike, mail and parcel deliveries could be disrupted by as early as Monday.\nThe Crown corporation also has the option to lock out workers after Thursday.}}
{{Here’s a not-so-special delivery: Canadians may be forced to prepare for a postal-service disruption as early as Friday. (Maclean’s subscribers, here is what you need to know about your magazine deliveries.) Early Tuesday, Canada Post served a 72-hour lockout notice to the Canadian Union of Postal Workers, halting negotiations between the two, and possibly sending postal workers across Canada to the picket line by the end of the week. CUPW and Canada Post have been working on a collective agreement since December, and this latest disruption has to do with the union wanting a pay increase for its rural, female carriers, and Canada Post saying it’s not affordable, especially while the corporation undergoes a government review of its operations—including door-to-door delivery.\nMORE: Canada Post issues 72-hour lockout notice\nRobert Campbell is the president and vice-chancellor of Mount Allison University. He’s authored two books on postal systems, and chaired the committee that reviewed Canada Post’s mandate back in 2008. He spoke to Maclean’s about what the future of postal service in Canada could look like, and how this current labour dispute fits into it.\nQ: Can you put this current labour dispute in context with what’s been happening to Canada Post over the past decade or so?\nA: I think Canada Post just simply wants this to end the uncertainty. Because it’s not in its business interest to have a long period of uncertainty, even if there’s no strike or lockout. I think the lockout business, and I’m guessing, is just a sign that Canada Post feels that it can’t afford uncertainty, which is almost as damaging as a strike.\nThe flip side of this is that I don’t, in my heart of hearts, think the union’s in a particularly strong position in terms of having public opinion or anyone else on their side in a labour dispute. How many strikes have you seen around these days? Times are tough, the unemployment rate’s not great, the growth prospect’s not great. I think people understand that the context of Canada Post is one in which it’s not quite a smokestack industry, but it’s a transformative sector in which everyone’s gotta change, for good or for bad, for right or for wrong. I don’t think there’s going to be a lot of sympathy for the union. That’s not to suggest they’re not arguing meritorious things—they have the right to bargain at the table and they have the right to look after their members. But I think that both sides are negotiating from positions of weakness: Canada Post in terms of its exposure in the market, and labour in terms of the fact I don’t think there will be a lot of public sympathy for their position if they went on strike.\nQ: If a deal isn’t reached between the union and Canada Post, what does that mean for Canadians?\nA: Well, that’s an odd thing. Because there will be an ambivalent, if not schizophrenic, response by Canadians. On the one hand, vast proportions of your readers have exited physical to the digital communications world. For a lot of people who are doing their banking, doing their financial services, their professional work, their communication with people, they’re using digital communications, this will be a bit of a tree falling in the forest. From the perspective of the Canada Post brand, it’s a bad idea to have a whole bunch of people wandering around saying, ‘See? There’s a strike on and nobody notices.’ So that’s the one hand.\nOn the other hand, there’s a different part of society, perhaps less urban, rural, small-town, small to medium-sized business that still rely on physical communication. It’s part of their lives. Maybe they haven’t exported over to digital yet because they don’t know how to do it, or it’s because it’s too expensive and there’s too much uncertainty. Or they may be in a line of work in which physical communication still makes a lot of sense, whether you’re selling stuff through catalogues or doing internet commerce, or fundraising, in which the physical thing is still more effective than the digital thing.\nI think there will be an ambivalent response, and it will put the government in an awkward position if it dragged on, because typically there’s a kind of simple narrative around a strike that a government will then react to. But I’m not sure the narrative here will be so clear cut, one way or the other.\nQ: You’ve been quite a strong advocate for Canada Post to remain a public service. What are the downsides of privatization?\nA: The merits of the public format, at the moment, is that for Canadians it offers a from-anywhere-to-anywhere kind of approach, at a relatively uniform and accessible price. One just doesn’t know, if you unpack that model, what the service levels will be to outlying areas or small towns. One would not know what would go on with the price that people would have to pay and so on. It may very well be, when you look around the world, at this function being privatized or quasi-privatized, if you look at Holland, or England, or Belgium, these are all well-run postal services that have privatized and the sky has not fallen. But I think they were perhaps more ready; a lot of the questions were sorted out, and the organization of the firm was probably better placed to go the private route. The regulatory models had been experimented with. We don’t really have any sort of regulatory model, a third-party regulation model for post at the moment. We’d have to develop that. I think maybe one or two more stages yet and then maybe we’ll come back and have that discussion.\nQ: What is it that needs to happen now to stabilize postal service in Canada, so that we’re not either in the midst of a strike, or the threat of a strike, every few years?\nA: I think that would have been a fair comment talking about the ’60s, ’70s, early ’80s, but from say the mid-’90s to now, there hasn’t been a lot of postal disruptions. It’s been reasonably calm. The last thing under Harper lasted a couple of days, and there were a couple of contracts before that where there was a strike. So I would have characterized the labour situation a little bit differently than you have. If you look around the world, there’s been very little postal disruption, partially because, this is just my opinion, the union has been weakened in its ability to negotiate at the table. The market is changing so fast and there’s such shedding of business, it doesn’t really have a strong position in which to bargain. Most unions around the world have been able to sit down with management and try to see what their common interests are in going forward in terms of a changing market. I think of a labour dispute like this as a sign of weakness on the part of the union. I’m not saying that in a pejorative sense, but in a mechanical sense. I think that if they were able to make a case with Canada Post on their terms, they would have been able to do it at the table. So they’re obviously not seeing eye-to-eye on the longer-term health, the future of the postal sector. Whereas in other countries they seem to have been able to get to that point. I’m afraid it’s kind of a, ‘Is there a God?’ quality to what’s being discussed here right now, and I think that’s kind of a dopey debate to be having when you’re losing four, five per cent of your volumes every year.\nQ: Where do you see the future of Canada Post headed?\nA: I think Canadians have a want-your-cake-and-eat-it kind of approach to things, like we do for most things in life. Hell, I want a wild and crazy life and I want money in my bank. Canadians want a level of service that perhaps they don’t need and I think a lot of people have come to that place, but not enough. I think one of the discussions we have to have in Canada is to say, ‘Look, seriously folks, what do we actually want the post office to do? What are our real needs here? And what are we willing to pay for it?’ Because I think the parade’s gone by on universal daily service, one- or two-day delivery at a cheap price. That’s not going to happen anymore because there’s not enough volume to sustain that. So are we willing to give up home delivery? Are we willing to give up daily delivery? What are we willing to pay for this? That’s number one.\nNumber two. If you buy something from Amazon, or you buy something online, you’re very often are given a choice of how you want the delivery, right? If you want it for free, we’ll get it to you in seven to 10 days. If you want in three to five days, you pay x, and if you want it in one to two days, you pay y. I think that’s going to be the model. And now with digitization in which every address in the country is kind of unique, I think you’re going to see a lot more one-on-one relationships like that develop between the customer and the provider of the service. And the sellers on Internet commerce are going to want to accommodate that.}}
{{Cara Delevingne has "loads" of songs ready to release.\nThe model-turned-actress added another string to her bow last week when she released 'I Feel Everything', which was produced by Pharrell Williams and features on the soundtrack to her new movie, 'Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets', and insiders have claimed she's all set to move her career on another stage by flooding the charts with her songs.\nA source said: "Acting is Cara's main focus but she was thrilled to finally share some of her music.\n"Now she's conquered modelling and acting, she'd love to make her mark on the charts and has loads of tracks ready to go when the right time comes.\n"The feedback she's had has been really positive, so she couldn't be more excited about the next stage of her career."\nThe 24-year-old beauty has turned her back on her previous partying ways in a bid to step away from the modelling world and prove she is serious about acting and singing.\nThe source said: "Cara has been deadly serious about the fact she wants to act and not be drawn back into huge modelling assignments, and being away from fashion and living more of a 'normal' life has done her the world of good.\n"She's fit and healthy, avoiding nights out, and has even been thrilled to have had her skin clear up, thanks to lots of sleep.\n"Her make-up artist, Molly Stern, has been amazing for her and like a mum on the road. She's found fame hard but, for the moment, she's plain sailing."\nThe 'Paper Towns' star has struggled to see her acting career really take off, so she's delighted to have received strong reviews for her performance in 'Valerian ... '.}}
{{Even as a debut author, its all about music for classical vocalist-music composer Shubha Mudgal, whose musical journey had set sail in Allahabad with lessons in Kathak.\nWhat’s new? Her first collection of short stories “Looking for Miss Sargam: Stories of Music and Misadventure” that has recently launched\nMudgal, a 2000 Padma Shri recipient, has been writing on music for a long time, but the novel, which took over four years, is her first-ever attempt at fiction. Creating waves in musical as well as literary circles, the book is being hailed as a refreshing piece of writing from an industry insider.\n“My stories draw inspiration from the world of Indian music, which is a space I have inhabited and explored all through my life,” Mudgal, 60, told IANSlife in an email interview.\nSome of her characters are: An Indian musician who flies from Pune to Philadelphia for a foreign tour, two star musicians who are brought together for a peace concert between India-Pakistan, and the mysterious Miss Sargam whom no one hears anymore but everyone remembers.\nOn how her process looked like, Mudgal said that she began by creating a plot.\n“This was followed by creating sketches of the main characters, deciding how old they would be, what they would wear, what they looked like, how they spoke or sang. Once I had the characters in place, I would start working on the story again, adding details in the narrative and I decided on the conclusion more or less instinctively.”\nThe singer lives in Delhi with spouse Aneesh Pradhan, a noted Tabla player. Together, they have established an online distribution platform for musicians of diverse forms of Indian music through UnderscoreRecords.com.\nAsked if the duo riyaaz (practice) together or break into impromptu musical sessions, Mudgal said: “While it is absolutely fabulous to have a life partner who is an accomplished musician and scholar, riyaaz demands solitude and therefore both of us have our respective, solitary riyaaz sessions.\n“At other times, we do sit together for riyaaz and for trying out compositions,” she added.\nMudgal has been a student of Thumri — a blend of Indian classical music and folk narratives — for almost four decades now. As a child in Allahabad, she began her training in music not as a student of vocal music, but as a student of Kathak which is also “inextricably linked with the art of Thumri”.\n“It is from Kathak that I transitioned towards studying vocal music,” she had earlier told IANS.\nHowever, the skill of keen listening, learnt early, has come handy all along as she was encouraged by parents to “attend recitals and listen carefully”.\nTo add to her scope of work, is her involvement with arts education in India.\nHaving taught at the Goa University, Mudgal discussed introducing an arts education programme in mainstream school education during the National Curriculum Framework 2005.\n“To the best of my knowledge, there is no programme in our education system that provides schoolchildren an opportunity to learn about the rich art traditions of India. In most cases, music, dance and other arts are taught as hobby activities or as optional extra curricular activities, but often the time reserved for such activities is allotted to extra classes for other, supposedly more important subjects.\n“Even in the few instances where opportunities are provided for students to take up lessons in music and dance, the syllabus is more geared towards performance than to encourage an awareness and understanding of the arts,” she explained.\nThe “Ab Ke Saawan” singer, who has also been associated with Goa’s Serendipity Arts Festival as a curator in 2016 and 2017, feels music festivals provide sustained exposure to the arts, create more listeners and give access to new artistes and different kinds of repertoire.\nApart from her regular involvement with music as a student, performer, teacher and composer, Mudgal is also in the process of working on a second book on music. She recently performed at the Parampara Series festival by Natya Tarangini.}}
{{Watch the bizarre moment Donald Trump embraced an American flag on stage in Washington.\nThe move followed a speech in which he defended his administration's controversial "zero tolerance" policy on immigration.\nHe also said he would detain family units together, instead of separating children from their parents.}}
{{Each year, Chicago Tribune columnists Mary Schmich and Eric Zorn work with Old Town School musicians to present Songs of Good Cheer, a caroling party. The original concert was based on the idea of holiday carols as a rite of friendship, of community. The program has grown over the years. There were five concerts in this year’s 20th annual edition of the event, which wrapped up Dec. 16. The event supports the Chicago Tribune Foundation, which funds programs for underserved youth in the Chicago metropolitan area. Learn more about the story behind Songs of Good Cheer with Mary Schmich's column from earlier this year.}}
{{Before the violence in Syria changed her life, Yusra Mardini was, in many ways, a normal teenager.\nA passionate swimmer since childhood, she trained daily and attended competitions abroad. She came of age with her older sister Sara, putting on makeup and high heels and going to cafes with friends. Yet amid these teenage pursuits, her world was slowly crumbling — friends were disappearing and her family moved from house to house to stay safe.\nIn 2015, a rocket propelled grenade tore through the roof of the swimming pool while she trained. It fell into the water and miraculously did not detonate. This was not Mardini’s first brush with death but it marked a turning point. Her mother begged her to stay out of the pool.\nVaughn Ridley/Getty Images, FILE\nTwo years later, while training in Berlin — her new home — she learned she had been selected to swim on the Refugee Olympics team for the 2016 games in Rio. This marked the start of her career as a spokesperson for refugees around the world. Since then, she’s met former President Barack Obama and Pope Francis. In 2017, she became a Goodwill Ambassador for UNHCR and spoke at the DAVOS World Economic Forum.\n“The Olympics were a turning point,” Mardini told ABC News during an interview in Berlin. “I started to get a really strong voice and a lot of people were believing in what I’m doing.”\nMardini’s journey from Syria to Europe is documented in the new autobiographical novel “Butterfly” that was published in May and written with the help of a ghostwriter. The story is personal yet reminiscent of the journey made by millions of people attempting to reach Europe at the height of the migration wave in 2015.\nShe and her sister made the perilous journey from Turkey to Greece on a flimsy rubber dinghy with 18 other passengers. Despite being trained swimmers, they nearly met their deaths when the engine failed and the boat began to sink. The girls and another passenger jumped into the water in an attempt to push the vessel to shore.\nEventually, the boat’s engine restarted and all 20 passengers arrived on land. The sisters were treated as heroes but their journey was far from over. Hungry and exhausted, they slept in a trench crossing the Hungarian border. They encountered thousands of asylum-seekers stuck at Budapest’s central train station and narrowly escaped becoming prisoners in a hotel run by ruthless traffickers extorting asylum-seekers for money.\nEmin Menguarslan/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images, FILE\n“I realize with a jolt just how vulnerable we are,” Mardini said in the book.\nMardini was initially reluctant to become a spokesperson for refugees. She felt the word refugee had negative connotations. During her upbringing she didn’t really know what a refugee was.\n“I felt people would look at me like this person who had no home, nothing and was not educated, and all that,” she explained.\nEventually, she embraced the term.\n“When I went to the Olympics I saw how many people are looking up at us and respect what we are doing,” she said. “I wanted to tell people that a refugee is not just a person who doesn’t have money, but a person who fled their home because of violence.”\nMardini’s parents and younger sister were able to join her in Berlin in 2016. Next month, her sister Sara will rejoin them. Sara has been volunteering with the Greek nonprofit ERCI, working as a lifeguard on the island of Lesbos to save refugees crossing the Aegean, just as she once did.\nIn Berlin, Mardini spends her time learning German and swimming. Although the war and her journey interrupted her training, she still hopes to qualify for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. To stay motivated, she thinks about why she started swimming in the first place and the early years training with her father in her hometown of Set Zaynab.\n“Now I have a big responsibility because I’m representing people,” she said. “I’m just hoping for the best, and we will see what can happen.”}}
{{(Reuters) - At least one person was killed when a driverless freight train carrying crude oil derailed and exploded in the middle of the small eastern Canadian town of Lac-Megantic early on Saturday, police told a televised new briefing.\nPolice spokesman Michel Brunet did not answer when asked how many people were still missing after the blast, which leveled a large part of the town center.}}
{{About the Author\nJustin Sarachik has been writing about music since 2010 reporting and editing for The Christian Post, BREATHEcast, Broken Records Magazine, and his own blog TheSIBandGuy. When not conducting obscenely long phone interviews he jumps around on stage with his progressive rock/rap band Process of Fusion in Staten Island, NY.\nWhether you know him as the actor Bryshere Gray or as the rapper Yazz the Greatest, this 23-year-old rising star has a plan, is focused, and has his head on straighter than most people his age.Born and raised in Philly, Gray has no qualms about trying to be the next Will Smith. He remembers where he came from and how far he’s gone. And where he’s gone in such a short time, is quite impressive.Since 2015, Gray has been playing the character of Hakeem Lyon on the critically acclaimed show “Empire.” In 2017 he was part of “The New Edition Story” mini-series where he played Michael Bivins. In 2018, he’ll be starring in his first feature length film, “Canal Street” as Kholi Styles, and also, post-production is said to have started on “Honey 4” where he plays the character Tyrell.“I didn’t just start driving the Ghost (Rolls Royce). I didn’t just start making what I make a year,” he said. “I came from Philly where before ‘Empire’, I was sleeping on the floor next to dog pee, not even having money to eat.”He continued proudly, but humbly, “Now my mom is looking for houses. That’s my life, coming from the bottom and now working, to being on TV every Wednesday, that’s nice. I’m from Philly bro! I got so much to talk about people probably think that I’m from Hollywood. I’m 23 and we doing it.”His roles in “Empire” and “The New Edition Story” have earned him BET and Emmy Award consideration. Gray could not be more excited.“I made a video on Instagram and I couldn’t stop dancing the whole thing,” he described of finding out about the nominations. “I was YOU watching ME on TV in your mom’s room. If anyone tells you that you can’t do it, you tell them what to kiss, and that you can do anything you put your mind too. I think it would be so great for kids right here in the hood that don’t really have the belief to be a star or anything. Look at me, all the odds were against me. I’m sorry Denzel, but Imma take this right here (he said jokingly).”Gray says he enjoys being able to work on TV at a young age because it affords him the time to branch out of the box a bit. He credits “Empire” with making him what he is today and also giving him leverage to be creative with roles.His dream scenarios for work are quite big. He’d love to play the Miles Morales version of Spiderman. Gray would also love to star alongside Halle Berry and be directed by Michael Bay or John Singleton.A Spiderman action and explosion packed movie directed by Michael Bay does not seem that far removed from reality, although Halle Berry might be a bit old to play love interest Kate Bishop…maybe his mom?While Gray dreams big, and acting is his first love, he is also developing his music as well.“Been working on the music. I’m so prepared and trained to do music, I can knock the songs out in one day," he said. “Just have everything organized now, and it should be two or three months. I feel like people need to hear my sound first before I grab features.”The young actor is carefully calculating his moves on the screen and in the studio, and credits his “trust in God” with all the decisions he makes. “There’s always a sign that tells you do it or don’t do it.”“First let me say, God is good all the time and all the time He’s watching over me even when the devil is looking at me,” he stated. “I make smart decisions and keep a solid circle around me. I know everyone is always watching me and I don’t want projects to start becoming my personal projects. You come out with an album and they focused on you getting into an argument, now they worried about your personal life when they should be focused on your work.”He continued, “My fans want to know what my next job is which is fantastic. They don’t want to know who I’m dating next. If I can keep them wanting to know what’s next as far as movies or music, that’s perfect. I’m human, I’m going to make mistakes, but I’m going to make smart mistakes.”For those in a similar situation to Gray, he said to find people who “have their head on straight” and find people “more religious, or as religious” as you."That person right there is your anointing. That’s your angel that God brought to you,” he shared. “He or she is just so supportive. Success brings negative energy and you have to have a team that dilutes that.”For now, Bryshere is promoting his first starring movie, “Canal Street” where he plays Kholi Styles, a young man from Chicago who gets caught up in a bad situation and ends up in prison, wrongfully accused.He took the role because it reminded him of Trayvon Martin, Freddie Gray, and Rodney King.“Chicago has a lot of murders that you’ll never hear about but you’ll hear about the kid that stole Skittles from the corner…the 300 murders that happen a year, you don’t hear about,” he exclaimed. “This movie spoke to me in so many ways because it’s honest, heart touching, and inspiring. It’s a tear jerker and realistic.”Gray described his character as a good kid who lives in the south side of Chicago. He's into reading books, listens to hip-hop, is into the Beatles and other types of music that his friends are not listening to. He aspires to things his friends don’t. While he’s grinding it out in the library, his friends are grinding it out on the streets.After his mother passes away, his father relocates them to a suburb of Chicago. In a new neighborhood, grieving and depressed, his father tries to make him forget his troubles by buying him a car. From there, he gets into a fight at school and the rest of the story begins to unfold.“The story is basically not making people stereotype. Just because I’m black, doesn’t mean I like chicken. Just because I’m white, doesn’t mean I like white girls. It’s just non guilty for every part of stereotypes,” he said. “It’s a completely refreshing role. With any role I play, I tap into my personal life. For me with my work, I make it personal. It’s authentic. I gave my real emotion to the scenes and it was what it was.”}}
{{Since January 2018, every Friday afternoon, one campus classroom in Canada is transformed. Tables are set up with two chairs facing one another; a chess set invites players to begin. An interactive white board shows a game in progress. Off to the side, another board is set up with a “chess problem.”\nAt half past one, the players begin to show up. The room fills with noisy young voices, sharing how their week has gone and clamouring for cookies and juice.\nThe scene is like any youth gathering, with one difference: Group home workers and probation officers are in attendance.\nAll of these youth are involved in the criminal justice system and are attending what’s known as the Chess for Life Programme at Alberta’s University of Lethbridge as part of their sentence.\nSentencing practices for youth who engage in non-violent crimes have traditionally adopted a punitive approach – for example, ordering time in a juvenile detention centre. However, research suggests that punitive models have little impact on reducing the chances of reoffending.\nIn fact, punitive sentencing can result in poor social outcomes, low rates of employment and higher school dropout rates.\nChess for Life\nSome people suggest a more rehabilitative approach to sentencing is needed. For example, youth could be sentenced to programmes that provide opportunities for developing life skills and establishing more positive relationships. This may result in increased levels of self-confidence, reducing the chance of reoffending.\nAlternate sentencing initiatives focus on fair sentencing practices that are appropriate and support the reintegration of youth back into the community.\nWithin the Young Offenders Branch of the Alberta government and the province’s Assistant Deputy Minister’s office, there is a movement towards alternate sentencing for youth involved in non-violent crimes. As a result, Alberta’s Ministry of Justice and the faculties of education and health sciences at the University of Lethbridge have teamed up to deliver a unique programme as an alternate sentence: Chess for Life.\nChess for Life is a 25-hour chess instruction program lead by longtime chess players Dr Lance Grigg and assistants Riley Kostek and Josh Markle. Youth learn opening, middle and end-game strategies while playing the programme leaders and each other.\nWhile the youth may not know it, they also are developing skills in reasoning, problem-solving, paying attention, planning, focusing and decision-making.\n‘Every move has a consequence’\nAlthough all of this sounds great, there is little research into the influence learning to play chess may have on self-regulatory functions and on the life choices youth make.\nTo address this gap, our research team, led by Monique Sedgwick and Jeffrey MacCormack, is conducting a study that explores how youth caught up in the criminal justice system, and participating in the Chess for Life Programme, view themselves as they learn how to play chess.\nThe Chess for Life research team, from left to right: Josh Markle, Jeffrey MacCormack, Monique Sedgwick, Riley Kostek and Lance Grigg.Photo credit: Caroline Zentner, Author provided (No reuse)\nSo far, we have observed that the youth, for the most part, like to come to instructional sessions. They say they really like how quiet the room is and that for the couple of hours they’re in the classroom, things slow down and it’s just chess.\nThey can leave the distractions, challenges, hurt and pain of their day at the door.\nWe’ve also noticed the youth have become more thoughtful. They ask good questions about moments in the game – questions that demonstrate they are developing problem-solving and planning skills.\nThey now know why the four middle squares of the board are important; we all need a strong centre. Before they move a player, we hear them plan their moves by working through the consequences of moving a piece in a particular way.\nPerhaps the most revealing comment one youth has shared – reflecting the positive influence of the program – is that he wishes he had “learned to play chess a lot earlier.”\nIn life, like chess, every move has a consequence.\nAlthough the study is in preliminary stages of collecting data, initial observations suggest the Chess for Life programme is a good alternate sentence choice for helping these young people get their lives back on track.\nMonique Sedgwick, Associate Professor of Nursing, University of Lethbridge; Jeffrey MacCormack, Assistant Professor of Educational Psychology, University of Lethbridge, and Lance Grigg, Associate Professor of Education, University of Lethbridge\nThis article first appeared on The Conversation.}}
{{By Solarina Ho and Julie Gordon\nJuly 18 (Reuters) - Canada’s two big railroads are reviewing safety standards after the deadly train crash on July 6 that killed some 50 people and destroyed the center of a small Quebec town.\nCanadian Pacific Railway Ltd, Canada’s No. 2 operator, said on Thursday it has already made some changes to its operating rules. It will no longer park unattended trains hauling hazardous materials on main lines, and is bringing in tougher rules on setting the brakes that hold a stationary train in place.\nThe runaway train that smashed into the town of Lac-Megantic, Quebec, had been parked on a main line after the engineer, its only crew member, finished his shift.\nThe train, operated by the Montreal Maine & Atlantic Railway (MMA), rolled down the track, gained speed, and derailed in the center of the lakeside town, with some of the 72 oil tanker cars it was hauling exploding into a wall of fire.\nInvestigators say the way in which the train’s crucial hand brakes were set is one focus of their probe.\n“The recent situation gave us a chance to thoroughly review our safety procedures, as we do on an ongoing basis,” CP Rail spokesman Ed Greenberg said in a statement.\n“We have now strengthened our operating procedures in some key areas that were identified from what recently occurred.”\nCanadian National Railway Co, the country’s biggest railroad, has also started reviewing its policy for securing trains to strengthen its safety protocols, spokesman Mark Hallman said. It expects to complete the review shortly.\nCLASS ACTION\nThe use of the hand brakes when the engineer parked his train for the night a few miles outside Lac-Megantic is also a crucial point in a class action suit being pursued by residents of the town of about 6,000 people.\nThe crash was North America’s deadliest rail accident in more than 20 years.\nThe suit’s preliminary document, filed in a Quebec court earlier this week, alleges that MMA and its affiliates cut costs to the point where safety was compromised, including replacing two-men crews with a single train operator, cutting wages and not ensuring company policy and regulations were followed.\nThe suit was updated late on Wednesday to also name Irving Oil Ltd, whose Saint John, New Brunswick, refinery was the destination of the crude oil shipment, and World Fuel Services Inc, which supplied the crude. It alleges the two companies failed to take appropriate measures to ensure that the crude oil was properly and safely transported.\nNeither company responded to requests to comment, and MMA has also not commented on the suit.\n“It was a highly flammable type of oil,” said Jeff Orenstein of Consumer Law Group, one of the firms behind the class action suit. “They did not arrange for proper transport of the oil knowing the containers were insufficient for the purposes of this flammable oil.”\nThe case, No.450-06-000001-135, was filed in the District of Saint-François in Sherbrooke, to the east of Montreal, because the courthouse in Lac-Megantic is in an off-limits zone where investigators are still searching for bodies and evidence.\n“We couldn’t get into the building, so we filed in Sherbrooke,” said Orenstein, adding the legal team will request a transfer as soon as the Lac-Megantic court reopens.\nSeparately, Canada’s Transportation Safety Board said two wheels of a freight car operated by MMA came off the rails on Thursday near Farnham, east of Montreal.\nNo one was injured and no cargo spilled from the train, which was not on the main track, a safety board spokesman said.}}
{{Cloudy skies didn’t stop the City of Vancouver from marking the first day of summer by rolling out a new solar energy demonstration program.\nSix boat sheds at the Creekside Paddling Centre have been outfitted with 60 new solar modules as a part of the city’s “Solar Now” project.\nVancouver Mayor Gregor Robertson said the site is just one of four the city is working on.\n“We have the Vancouver Public Library solar array that’s coming, we also are working on a fire hall and electric vehicle charging stations with solar installations.”\nThe VPL panels are due in 2018, and the city did not provide a timeline on the other installations.\nREAD MORE: B.C. homeowners call for less red tape for solar panel installation\nThe boat shed installations each produce about 2.5 kilowatts of electricity, enough to power two single family homes.\nThe city says over their lifetime the Creekside panels are expected to produce about $62,000 worth of power.\n“Overall cost of the city in this is about a $200,000 commitment,” Robertson said, “which has been generously matched by Rudy North and the North Growth Foundation.”\nAlong with the North Growth Foundation, the city has partnered with the Park Board and Clean Energy Canada on the Solar Now project.\nThe mayor says the installations are part of the city’s commitment to 100 per cent renewable energy by 2050.}}
{{* C$ at $1.0554 to US$, or 94.75 U.S. cents * Shrinking trade deficit ignored as jobs data looms By Cameron French TORONTO, July 3 (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar eased against its U.S. counterpart on Wednesday, extending its recent decline as market players avoided big bets ahead of the U.S. July 4 holiday and key jobs data due at the end of the week. Data on Wednesday showing a smaller than expected Canadian trade deficit in May due to falling imports, was largely ignored, traders said. As well, any positive impact versus the U.S. dollar was likely offset by figures that showed a fall in U.S. weekly jobless claims. "The market obviously has got two things on its mind: July 4 tomorrow and jobless data on Friday, so I expect to see a little bit of consolidation today," said Steve Butler, director of foreign exchange trading at Scotiabank. At 9:36 a.m. (1336 GMT), the Canadian dollar was at C$1.0554 to the greenback, or 94.75 U.S. cents, down from C$1.0549, or 94.80 U.S. cents, at Tuesday's North American close. However, the loonie, as Canada's currency is colloquially known, was higher than Tuesday's intraday low of C$1.0578, or C$94.53 U.S. cents, which was a 21-month low. The currency has shed value in recent weeks as the U.S. Federal Reserve signals its intention to scale back the asset purchases that have supported equity and bond markets. Meanwhile, uneven Canadian economic data has investors continuing to wonder how soon the Bank of Canada will act on its long-held threat to raise interest rates. Friday's employment numbers are expected show Canada lost some 2,500 jobs in June after notching oversized gains the previous month, while the much larger U.S. economy is seen adding 165,000 jobs. Prices for Canadian government debt were up across the curve. The two-year bond was up 3 Canadian cents to yield 1.184 percent, while the benchmark 10-year bond rose 5 Canadian cents to yield 2.401 percent.}}
{{Immigrants stand for the invocation during a naturalization ceremony to become new U.S. citizens at Boston College in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts March 21, 2013. REUTERS/Brian Snyder\nWASHINGTON (Reuters) - A U.S. Senate-passed immigration bill would significantly reduce the flow of illegal immigrants, but increased U.S.-Mexico border security costs would eat into projected budget savings, the Congressional Budget Office said on Wednesday.\nThe CBO concluded that the bill, which would double the number of federal agents along the border and complete the 700 miles of fencing, would reduce the number of people entering the United States from Mexico without documentation by one-third to one-half.\nThe Democratic-led Senate passed the sweeping immigration bill at the end of June, but the legislation’s fate is unclear in the Republican-controlled House of Representatives. Some House Republicans have complained that the Senate bill’s border security provisions are not strong enough and the majority do not want to provide a path to citizenship for the 11 million illegal immigrants, which is at the heart of the Senate bill.\nBefore senators voted to strengthen the security measures, the non-partisan CBO had estimated that the Senate bill would shrink illegal immigration by about one-quarter.\nThe original bill would have dispatched 3,500 additional federal agents to the Mexican border. The current bill would add 20,000.\n“It’s pretty clear that CBO is estimating diminished returns. The improvements from CBO are pretty modest,” said Edward Alden, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations think tank who specializes in immigration policy and border security.\nThe CBO also found that the cost of doubling the number of agents, finishing the fence and buying high-tech surveillance equipment would shrink potential deficit reduction promised under the legislation.\nThe report concluded that the bill, if enacted, could reduce deficits by $158 billion from 2014 to 2023. When additional appropriations needed to implement the legislation are added in, the savings shrink further to $135 billion.\nPreviously, the CBO estimated that the version of the bill passed by the Senate Judiciary Committee would reduce deficits by $197 billion over 10 years, or $175 billion with the additional appropriations.\nThe biggest factor cited by the CBO was a net 10-year increase in direct costs of $36 billion to fund the increased border security measures.\nBut the measure as passed by the Senate would still produce massive deficit reduction in the second decade of $685 billion, the CBO said, versus a previous estimate of $700 billion. These savings, which take into account stronger economic growth fueled by an increase in the legal U.S. workforce, are being touted by Democrats and some moderate Republicans as an incentive for passage of the legislation.\nThe bill as passed by the Senate would result in a slightly smaller increase in the U.S. population over the first decade - 9.6 million residents versus a previous estimate of 10.4 million.\nIn addition to providing a path to citizenship for undocumented foreigners, the legislation increases the number of work visas and requires U.S. companies to use a government program to verify that they are not employing illegal immigrants.\nHouse Republicans are due to meet July 10 to discuss how to proceed on immigration policy.}}
{{LONDON, July 24 (IFR) - Royal Bank of Canada has shut down its European government bond trading business, the bank confirmed on Wednesday.\nA spokesperson for RBC said the move was a tactical adjustment to its product offering, and that Europe remains a central part of its platform.\nThis morning the five traders on the desk were informed of the decision, according to several market sources.}}
{{Child detainees sleep in a holding cell at a U.S. Customs and Border Protection processing facility in Brownsville, Texas, June 18, 2014. AP Photo Eric Gay}}
{{Each day violence forces thousands of people around the world to flee their homes and seek safety in new and unfamiliar places. They become refugees or asylum seekers, leaving everything they know behind in the hopes of building a safer future for themselves or their families. As part of the Trump administration's "zero tolerance" immigration policy, the White House has made it more difficult to obtain either refugee or asylum status in the United States. But are refugees and asylum seekers the same? While each is a protective status, there's some important differences between the two.\nAsylum or refugee status can be granted to anyone who has been "persecuted" in their country of origin or who fears they will be persecuted as a result of their race, religion, politics, or membership in a particular social group, according to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.\nBoth individuals seeking asylum or entry into the United States as a refugee must meet the legal definition of a refugee as laid out in the Immigration and Nationality Act, so a refugee and an asylum seeker are essentially the same. There is one key difference in the two classifications, however: where the person applies for protection.\nCarl Court/Getty Images News/Getty Images\nThe criterion for being granted status as a refugee or asylee is the exact same, "so the bar for a successful application is the same," Shannan Mattiace, a professor of political science and international studies at Allegheny College, tells Bustle.\nHere's where the exact distinction lies: An asylum seeker is either already inside the United States or is physically present at a legal port of entry. Someone seeking to enter the country as a refugee applies for protection from abroad.\nThere are two ways an individual can attempt to obtain asylum in the United States, according to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. To apply for asylum via the affirmative process, an individual must be in the country and file their application within one year of arriving. According to asylum law, an individual can apply for asylum regardless of their immigration status or how they arrived in the country.\nApplying for asylum via the defensive process means that an individual files their petition for asylum in defense of removal from the country. For this, the applicant must be involved in removal proceedings with the Executive Office for Immigration Review in immigration court.\nRefugees, on the other hand, undergo a thorough vetting process before they ever enter the country. The president consults with Congress each year to determine the specific number of refugees the United States will accept that year. President Trump announced last year that he planned to lower that number from 110,000 to 45,000.\n"Even Americans sympathetic to refugees and their plight, I don’t think they have an understanding of how absolutely difficult and rare it is to get refugee status in the world," Mattiace says. "There are millions of people living in camps... and we accept only in the tens of thousands of refugees, even under the most sympathetic of American administrations."\nObtaining refugee status in the United States can take years. The process can be a little faster for asylum seekers who are already in the country, but they still face a long legal process. Asylum seekers are required to prove that they're in danger because of their race, religion, politics, or affiliations with a certain group.\n"Just because things are bad in your home country, or because there’s gang violence in your home country, it’s not enough to establish an asylum claim," says Jacob Monty, an immigration attorney based in Houston who previously served on Trump's Hispanic Advisory Council. "It’s really tough, and what’s more is you have to have some evidence that you’re being targeted."\nIn an attempt to make the qualifications for asylum seekers more strict, Attorney General Jeff Sessions said earlier this month that anyone claiming fears of domestic violence or gang violence shouldn't be granted asylum. His action didn't change the fundamental definition of an asylum seeker, but rather made it more difficult for someone to prove that they should be granted protection.\n"Even before this announcement, it was very hard to establish asylum," Monty tells Bustle. "Now it’s even harder."\nRefugees and asylum seekers alike are fleeing dangerous situations in their home countries — from war, to genocide, to gang violence. Only a small percentage of those seeking either protection are granted legal status in the United States each year, and those numbers are quickly diminishing under the Trump administration's "zero-tolerance" approach to immigration.\nLauren Holter contributed reporting.}}
{{President Donald Trump says he would be "signing something" if an immigration bill that aims to end family separation at the border is passed as U.S. House representatives plan to vote on the bill Thursday.\nRepublican bill needs at least 218 votes to pass\nBill would keep families together\nIt will be the first vote on immigration legislation since Trump began his zero-tolerance policy in April.\nThe House Republican bill needs at least 218 votes to pass. The House has 235 Republicans but it is not clear if all of them will support the bill.\nSpeaker Paul Ryan tweeted that the House will vote to keep families together on Thursday.\nWe can enforce our immigration laws without breaking families apart. Tomorrow, the House will vote on legislation to keep families together. pic.twitter.com/AnlIubOllC — Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) June 20, 2018\nUnder this bill, the families would be held together in Homeland Security facilities while adults await legal hearings.\nThe bill also aims to grant DACA recipients a pathway to citizenship and provides funding to build a border wall.\nThere is also talk in D.C. that Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen may be drafting an executive action for Trump to keep illegal immigrant families crossing the border in detention centers together.\nWhite House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders would not confirm or deny this when she was asked about it.\nHowever, in a tweet Wednesday Trump said he is "working on something."}}
{{Owen Smith told a rally in London this week that schools in his area are under pressure due to migration.\nAccording to the New Statesman , "Smith noted that his wife is a school teacher and that schools in their local area are under pressure from 'significant numbers into South Wales of people fleeing the Middle East'".\nYet, as the weekly news magazine pointed out, the statistics suggest the opposite.\nWe've dug up the figures for school applications in Rhondda Cynon Taf - which the Pontypridd constituency sits within - and they are actually struggling to fill their places.\nLast year, there were:\n476 surplus places in RCT primary schools\nAnd 715 surplus places in RCT secondary schools\nHardly any pupils didn't get their first choice school\nNeither has there been significant immigration into the area\nJust 2.1% of Rhondda Cynon Taf's residents were born outside the UK\nThe number of foreign nationals living in the area is actually falling\nBetween April and June this year, Home Office figures show RCT settled just 18 Syrian refugees\nPlaid's Leanne Wood accused him of 'pandering to people's fears'\nRob Browne Plaid Cymru leader Leanne Wood\nMs Wood said: “The refugee debate to date has been driven by scaremongering and misinformation.\n“To hear one of the contenders for Labour’s leadership, a potential Labour leader, joining in by misleading is pandering to people’s fears on this question and is concerning.\n“Official figures show that RCT has accepted 18 refugees fleeing from war-torn Syria to the area, but the MP for Pontypridd claims there are ‘significant numbers’ of people from the Middle East across the south of Wales.\n“Misleading comments of this nature have a damaging effect on our communities. I condemn politicians from all parties who use inflammatory rhetoric which seeks to divide and pander to politics of the far right.\n“What we hear from extremists in Ukip should not become the language of mainstream politics.”\nEven the Labour council leader says immigration isn't the problem in RCT\nRCT council leader Andrew Morgan\nAndrew Morgan, the Labour leader of RCT council, said: “The up-to-date position is that RCT has accepted 18 individuals – not families – from Syria.\n“There is some pressure on schools in the Llantwit Fardre area, but that’s not to do with immigration from overseas. It’s about people moving into the area.\n"In the northern parts of the Valley areas there are surplus school places.”\nMr Smith's spokesman gave this statement\nLabour leadership candidate Owen Smith speaks at the Ely Valley Miners Welfare Club in Porth\nA spokesman for Mr Smith said: “We should be doing far more to make sure people arriving in this country fleeing wars and other terrible situations feel at home in Britain and are given all the support they need.\n“Too many asylum seekers are forced to live in poor quality accommodation, with few opportunities to have their concerns addressed.\n“It’s vital that both asylum seekers and the local communities that welcome them get proper support from central government, which is why Owen has called for significantly more money to be put into public services and housing in areas affected by higher levels of migration, and for asylum seekers themselves to receive additional support for their healthcare, schooling and language needs.\n“This is particularly important in areas in South Wales such as Cardiff, Swansea and Newport, where I am proud that the Welsh people offer shelter to more asylum seekers than do many other parts of the UK.”\nThese are the ONS stats for migration into RCT\nThey also show that in 2015 there were 16.9 non-British nationals per 1,000 residents in RCT, down from 25.6 per 1,000 in 2013, The proportion for Wales as a whole was 38.2 per 1,000.\nAlso in 2015, there were 21.2 non-UK born residents per 1,000 residents in RCT, down from 29.9 per 1,000 in 2013, The proportion for Wales as a whole was 56.1 per 1,000.\nThe non-UK born population of RCT was pretty stable from 2005 to 2015 at around 6,000.}}
{{* Wholesale trade grows 2.3 percent vs forecast of 0.3 percent\n* Sales volume rises 2.4 percent in May from April\n* Inventories unchanged after 0.5 percent rise\nOTTAWA, July 18 (Reuters) - Canadian wholesale trade grew by a stronger-than-expected 2.3 percent in May from April, the biggest monthly jump since January 2011, due mainly to higher sales of fertilizer and food, Statistics Canada said on Thursday.\nAnalysts had expected a 0.3 percent gain, according to the median forecast in a Reuters poll. Statscan revised the April wholesale growth figure to 0.4 percent from 0.2 percent.\nStronger fertilizer sales in May contributed to a 6.7 percent increase in the “miscellaneous” subsector which includes agricultural supplies, Statscan said. A 4.2 percent rise in the food industry helped boost sales in the food, beverage and tobacco subsector by 3.9 percent.\nTogether, the two subsectors accounted for more than 70 percent of wholesale growth in May. Sales rose in all seven subsectors.\nThe strong performance contrasts with other evidence of a weak second quarter. The Bank of Canada on Wednesday sharply cut its second-quarter economic growth forecast to 1 percent from 1.8 percent largely due to the impact of catastrophic flooding, citing temporary factors such as Alberta floods and a strike by construction workers in Quebec.\nIn volume terms, wholesale trade grew 2.4 percent in May.\nInventories were unchanged following a 0.5 percent increase in April.}}
{{Homicide investigators say they are looking into the death of a 30-year-old North Vancouver man.\nThe Integrated Homicide Investigation Team (IHIT) said Gavinder Grewal was found dead in an apartment just before 8 p.m. on Friday in the 1500-block of Fern Street.\nIHIT spokesperson Cpl. Frank Jang said Grewal was “affiliated” with the home in which he was found, and that he was discovered by a family member.\nIHIT in #NorthVancouver for man found dead in apartment in 1500 block Fern St. ID’ed as 30y/o Gavinder Grewal. Believed to be targeted. pic.twitter.com/KAzk8JH7Kd — IHIT (@HomicideTeam) December 23, 2017\nJang said the circumstances surrounding Grewal’s death remain under investigation.\nHowever, police said they believe the incident was targeted “and linked to other gang violence in the Lower Mainland.”\n“Right now we’re working with our partners from [The Combined Forces Special Enforcement Unit] as well as the local gang enforcement units to exactly find out what his current affiliations were,” said Jang.\nIn 2015, Abbotsford police issued a warning about Grewal and two other men who they said posed “risk of significant harm to the safety of the community.”}}
{{MONTREAL—Air Canada’s plans to develop its own frequent flyer program are one of several digitization initiatives the airline is pursuing to meet the varying needs of its 45 million passengers a year, CEO Calin Rovinescu says.Weeks after Air Canada announced it was ditching Aeroplan, Rovinescu said the decision was part of the company’s broader strategy to become more digital in its operations. That includes looking at working with artificial intelligence specialists to recognize patterns in customer data and employing augmented reality to change how employees learn and collaborate.Using data analytics on information collected from frequent flyers will help the airline better understand their shopping patterns, improve service and build loyalty, Rovinescu said. Air Canada plans to launch its own loyalty rewards plan in 2020.“By bringing it in house, it will enable us to be much, much closer to our customers in terms of the offers that can be made and having the ability to in some respects deal directly with our key frequent flyers,” he said in an interview.Read more: Article Continued BelowAir Canada plans to replace Aeroplan in 2020 with new loyalty program5 things to know about Aeroplan points and Air CanadaAeroplan operator confident it can survive without Air Canada}}
{{ADVERTISEMENT\nWhen you're travelling with kids, you try to prepare for emergencies. And that's what one grandmother thought she was doing, until an Air Canada flight attendant allegedly kept her granddaughter from going to the bathroom.\nIn a Facebook post last week, Stacey Pyke-Osmond of Okotoks, Alta., described taking her two-year-old granddaughter Ruby, who is potty-trained, on a flight from Calgary to Halifax. She requested a seat close to the bathroom, and the booking agent placed them right near the executive bathroom at the front of the plane, despite their seats in economy. But things got dicey once they were in flight.\n"On ... Ruby's second trip to the bathroom I was told by the front flight attendant that we could no longer use the front bathroom. Her exact words were, "I can't have you coming up here any more". I was totally taken aback and shocked. I informed her that I was given my seats to be close to a bathroom and she continued to tell me that she did not care about that and we were not to use that bathroom. We had a bit of a discussion about the fact that Ruby is two years old but she still told me not to come back to that bathroom."\nLater on, when a service cart blocked the way towards the back bathroom, and the flight attendant once again prevented them from using the front one, Ruby ended up peeing in her pants. She sat on napkins and a blanket for the three hours remaining in the flight.\nOnce she'd landed, Pyke-Osmond complained to the airline, and was offered 25 per cent off her next flight. After she refused, they called her to give a $200 voucher and gifts for Ruby, reports CBC.\nBut that wasn't quite what the grandmother was looking for.\n"I'd like [the flight attendant] to have to call and apologize and maybe she'll think twice about how she acts in the future," she told the network. "It was a very unpleasant flight for us."\nSome people commenting on the article, meanwhile, turned the blame onto Pyke-Osmond, saying she should have been ready with a change of clothes or a diaper to prevent such an occurrence.\n"To not bring a pull up or any changes of clothes for a child on any flight is being ill prepared and is not the responsibility of the airline."\n"If someone was having a bout of nausea and was occupying the bathroom for an extended period of time, the child would still have had an accident. The child could have spilled her entire drink all over her lap and the responsible adult would have had to sit there with a child covered in juice or soda for hours. What if there was minor turbulence the entire flight and you could not leave your seat? To not bring a pull up or any changes of clothes for a child on any flight is being ill prepared and is not the responsibility of the airline," wrote one person on CafeMom.\nOthers, however, defended the passengers, noting that the crew was able to help, but chose not to.\nAnd perhaps that's exactly what people are railing against with the increasing complaints about airline service — the seeming lack of humanity being displayed by the companies, and sometimes, the people who are doing their jobs, exactly as they were told to.\n"We're in contact with our customer about this regrettable incident. We have no further comment," Air Canada spokesperson Angela Mah wrote in a statement.\nAnd Pyke-Osmond is keeping it in perspective.\n"I don't blame an entire airline for one flight attendant," she told CBC. "This was the first time I experienced such hostility."}}
{{A man dressed in medieval clothing and armed with a Japanese sword was arrested Sunday on suspicion of killing two people and injuring five others in Quebec.\nThe 24-year-old man from Montreal was apprehended hours after the Halloween attack near the historic Chateau Frontenac hotel.\nPolice said an initial investigation suggests the 24-year-old suspect's motive was personal and not terrorism.\n"Dressed in medieval costume and armed with a Japanese sword, everything leads us to believe he chose his victims at random," Quebec Police Chief Robert Pigeon said at a news conference.\nRead more: Canada: PM Trudeau avoids snap election in confidence vote\nEarlier threat made\nPigeon added that the suspect made a threat of violence in 2014.\n"That information would have been revealed in a medical context over five years ago. It was not something that was in a criminal record,' he said.\nPigeon said the man had come prepared to inflict as much damage as possible but did not elaborate.\nQuebec newspaper Le Soleil said the suspect had gasoline containers in his car.\nHe was due to make a video court appearance later Sunday.\nPolice were first notified of the stabbings near the National Assembly shortly before 10:30 p.m. local time on Saturday (03:30 UTC/GMT Sunday).\nThe five injured victims were taken to a hospital but are not thought to have life-threatening injuries.\nAuthorities declined to give any information about the two people who were killed.\nRead more: Canada's last Arctic ice shelf breaks apart due to warming\nResidents warned to stay inside\nPolice had earlier warned residents to remain indoors as they hunted for the man in the costume with a bladed weapon. They later described the weapon as a katana.\nThe area around the Chateau Frontenac, the towering landmark of the walled old city, is usually bustling with tourists in normal times.\n"Quebec is waking up after a night of horror. Words fail me to describe such a tragedy. I offer my condolences to the families of the victims,'' Quebec Premier Francois Legault tweeted.\nQuebec City Mayor Regis Labeaume said Canada needs to have a debate about how to deal with mental illness following the tragedy.\nIn 2017, a Canadian man gunned down six members of a Quebec City mosque and was later sentenced to life in prison.\nmm/rc (AP, Reuters)}}
{{Via RT…\nForces are aligning against Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince, lead by elements within the CIA and strong players in the mainstream media. But what is really behind this deterioration in relationship, and what are its implications?\nFollowing the brutal murder of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi, western media and various entities, including the CIA, appear to have turned their back on Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad Bin Salman (MBS). In response to the scandal, the Guardian released a video which its celebutante, Owen Jones, captioned“Saudi Arabia is one of the biggest threats on Earth. Time to stop propping up its repulsive regime.”\nThe Guardian was not alone in its condemnation. “It’s high time to end Saudi impunity,” wrote Hana Al-Khamri in Al-Jazeera. “It’s time for Saudi Arabia to tell the truth on Jamal Khashoggi,” the Washington Post’s Editorial Board argued. Politico called it “the tragedy of Jamal Khashoggi.”\nEven shadowy think-tanks like the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) and the Atlantic Council released articles criticising Saudi Arabia in the wake of Khashoggi’s death.\nA number of companies began backing away from Saudi money after the journalist’s death, including the world’s largest media companies such as the New York Times, the Economist’s editor-in-chief Zanny Minton Beddoes, Arianna Huffington, CNN, CNBC, the Financial Times, Bloomberg, Google Cloud CEO, just to name a few.\nThe CIA concluded that MBS personally ordered Khashoggi’s death, and was reportedly quite open in its provision of this assessment. Antonio Guterres, secretary-general of the UN, also took time out of his schedule to express concern over Saudi Arabia’s confirmation of the killing.\nAt the time of the scandal, former CIA director John Brennan went on MSNBC to state that the Khashoggi’s death would be the downfall of MBS. Furthermore, the US Senate just voted in favour of ending American involvement in Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen (a somewhat symbolic victory, though this is a topic for another article), but nonetheless was a clear stab at MBS personally.\nThe only person who appeared to continue to uphold America’s unfaltering support for MBS, even after all the publicly made evidence against MBS, was the US president himself. So after years of bombarding Yemen, sponsoring terror groups across the Middle East, Asia, the Pacific and beyond, why is it only now that there has been mounting opposition to Saudi Arabia’s leadership? Let’s just bear in mind that western media had spent years investing in a heavy PR campaign to paint MBS as a “reformer.”\nFormer national security adviser under Barack Obama’s second term, Susan Rice, wrote an article in the New York Times, in which she called MBS a “partner we can’t depend on.” Rice concludes that MBS is “not and can no longer be viewed as a reliable partner of the United States and our allies.” But why is this? Is it because MBS is responsible for some of the most egregious human rights abuses inside his own kingdom as well as in Yemen? Is it because of MBS’ support for groups such as ISIS and al-Qaeda? No, according to Rice, we “should not rupture our important relationship with the kingdom, but we must make it clear it cannot be business as usual so long as Prince Mohammad continues to wield unlimited power.”\nOne will observe that the latter segment of Rice’s article almost mirrors former CIA director Brennan’s word on MSNBC word for word who stated that:\n“I think ultimately this is going to come out. And it’s very important for us to maintain the relations with Saudi Arabia. And if it’s Mohammed bin Salman who’s the cancer here, well, we need to be able to find ways to eliminate the cancer and to move forward with this relationship that is critical to regional stability and our national interests.”\nIn reality, this is probably the issue that western media and government advisors have taken up with MBS. Aside from the fact he allegedly held a huge hand in the brutal murder of one of their own establishment journalists (Saudi Arabia reportedly tortured and killed another journalist not long after Khashoggi, but western media was eerily silent on this incident) MBS is not opposed for his reckless disregard for human rights. With insight into Rice’s mindset, we actually learn that if the US were to punish MBS, he would be likely to “behave more irresponsibly to demonstrate his independence and exact retribution against his erstwhile Western partners.”\nYou see, the problem with MBS isn’t that he is a mass murdering war criminal, it is that he is too “independent” for the United States’ liking.\nLast week, Saudi Arabia and the other major oil producers met in Vienna at the year’s final big OPEC meeting of the year. As Foreign Policy notes, Saudi Arabia remains the largest oil producer inside OPEC but has to contend with the US and Russia who are “pumping oil at record levels.” Together, the three countries are the world’s biggest oil producers, meaning any coordinated decision made between these three nations can be somewhat monumental.\nHowever, it appears that one of these three nations will end up drawing the short end of the stick as the other two begin forming a closer alliance. As Foreign Policy explains:\n“But Saudi Arabia has bigger game in mind at Vienna than just stabilizing oil prices. Recognizing that it can’t shape the global oil market by itself anymore but rather needs the cooperation of Russia, Saudi Arabia is hoping to formalize an ad hoc agreement between OPEC and Moscow that began in 2016, a time when dirt-cheap oil also posed a threat to oil-dependent regimes. That informal agreement expires at the end of the year, but the Saudis would like to make Russia’s participation with the cartel more permanent.”\nRussian officials have been signalling their intention to formalise this agreement for quite some time now. Given the hysteria in western media about any and all things Russian, it is not too much of a stretch to suggest that this is the kind of news that is not sitting too well with the powers-that-be.\nEarlier this year, Russia and Saudi Arabia announced that it would “institutionalize” the two-year-old bilateral agreement to coordinate oil production targets in order to maintain an edge on the global market.\nWhile US president Trump has been supportive and incredibly defensive of MBS during this “crisis”, the truth is that the US only has itself to blame. It was not all too long ago that Trump announced that he had told Saudi King Salman that his kingdom would not last two weeks without US support.\nSaudi Arabia is learning for themselves quite quickly that, ultimately, it may pay not to have all its eggs in one geopolitical superpower basket.\nSaudi Arabia has been increasingly interested in Moscow since King Salman made a historic visit to Moscow in October 2017. While Trump has openly bragged about his record-breaking arms deals with the Saudis, the blunt truth is that the $110 billion arms agreements were reportedly only ever letters of interest or intent, but not actual contracts. As such, the US-Saudi arms deal is still yet to be locked in, all the while Saudi Arabia is negotiating with Russia for its S-400 air defence system. This is, as the Washington Post notes, despite repeated US requests to Saudi Arabia for it disavow its interest in Russia’s arms.\nThe economic threat that an “independent” Saudi Arabia under MBS’ leadership poses to Washington runs deeper than meets the eye and may indeed have a domino effect. According to CNN, Russia and Saudi Arabia “are engaged in an intense battle over who will be the top supplier to China, a major energy importer with an insatiable appetite for crude.”\nThe unveiling of China’s petro-yuan poses a major headache for Washington and its control over Saudi Arabia as well.According to Carl Weinberg, chief economist and managing director at High-Frequency Economics, China will “compel”Saudi Arabia to trade oil in Chinese yuan instead of US dollars. One must bear in mind that China has now surpassed the US as the “biggest oil importer on the planet,” these direct attacks on the US dollar will have huge implications for its current world reserve status.\nIf Saudi Arabia jumps on board China’s petro-yuan, the rest of OPEC will eventually follow, and the US might be left with no choice but to declare all of these countries in need of some vital freedom and democracy.\nTherefore, ousting MBS and replacing him with a Crown Prince who doesn’t stray too far from the tree that is US imperialism may put a dent in pending relationships with Saudi Arabia and Washington’s adversaries, Russia and China.\nOnce we get over the certainty that the US media and the CIA are not against MBS for his long-list of human rights abuses, the question then becomes: why – why now, and in this manner, have they decided to put the spotlight on MBS and expose him exactly for what he is.\nClearly, the driving force behind this media outrage is a bit more complex than first meets the eye.}}
{{TORONTO — The well-known Toronto pastor who officiated Canada's first legally recognized same-sex marriages is delivering his final sermon today.\nRev. Brent Hawkes, who is also known for officiating Jack Layton's state funeral in 2011, is retiring after serving as senior pastor at the Metropolitan Community Church of Toronto for more than 40 years.\nIn 2001, the openly gay pastor married two same-sex couples using a legal loophole: the ancient Christian tradition of publishing the banns of marriage.\nAt the time, same-sex couples could not obtain marriage licences from municipal clerks, but the Ontario Marriage Act allowed couples to be granted a licence if their names were published and read out at church for three Sundays in a row.\nBut when the couples tried to have the marriages registered with the province, it refused.\nThe couples and the church sued, and the Ontario Court of Appeal eventually recognized their unions in a 2003 ruling that paved the way for same-sex marriage to be legalized across the country.\nHawkes was appointed to the Order of Canada in 2007 for his work advocating for gay rights.}}
{{WINDSOR, Ont. — A Canada-wide arrest warrant has been issued for a Vatican diplomat accused of uploading child pornography to a social networking site while inside a Windsor, Ont., church over the Christmas period last year.\nWindsor police say they were alerted by the RCMP in February and launched an investigation, eventually getting judicial permission to access relevant internet records.\nThey say the alleged offences took place between Dec. 24 and 27 of last year.\nPolice say the 50-year-old suspect has since returned to his home in Italy, and also has ties to the United States as well as the Windsor area.\nCarlo Capella is sought on charges of accessing, possessing and distributing child pornography.\nThe Vatican recalled Capella after the U.S. State Department notified it Aug. 21 of a “possible violation of laws relating to child pornography images” by one of its diplomats in Washington.\nThe Vatican — while not mentioning Capella by name — says its own prosecutor is investigating and seeking further information from the U.S.\nThe Diocese of London, Ont., confirmed that it helped investigators who had suspicions of “possible violations of child pornography laws by using a computer address at a local church.”\nIt declined further comment, citing a police request.\nThe diplomat’s recall was expected to loom over an international conference next week at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome on protecting children from online sexual exploitation, pornography and abuse.\nCardinal Pietro Parolin, the Vatican secretary of state and Capella’s boss, is set to deliver the keynote speech Tuesday on “The Holy See and its commitment to combating sex abuse online.”\nPanelists at the conference, which was organized months ago, are to include top law enforcement and academic experts in the field of child protection and cybercrimes, with an entire morning devoted to “Child Sexual Abuse Online: Who are the offenders?”\n— with files from The Associated Press}}
{{CANADA STOCKS-TSX rises, supported by higher commodity prices after Yellen speech\nTORONTO, Aug 26 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index rose on Friday, led by energy and mining stocks as oil and gold prices gained after a speech by Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen viewed as supportive of a U.S. interest rate increase.\nThe most influential movers on the index were gold stocks, including Barrick Gold, which rose 2.3 percent to C$24.2, and Franco Nevada Corp, up by the same margin to C$95.81.\nSpot gold rose 1.3 percent as the U.S. dollar lost ground despite Yellen's comments.\nThe case for raising U.S. interest rates has strengthened in recent months because of improvements in the U.S. labor market and expectations for moderate economic growth, Yellen said.\nThe materials group, which includes precious and base metals, miners and fertilizer companies, added 2.2 percent, while energy stocks advanced 1.2 percent as a lower U.S. dollar also helped support energy prices.\nU.S. crude prices were up 1.7 percent to $48.11 a barrel and Canadian Natural Resources Ltd rose nearly 1.0 percent to C$41.78.\nAt 10:35 a.m. EDT (1435 GMT), the Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index rose 91.42 points, or 0.62 percent, to 14,722.14.\nNine of the index's 10 main groups were higher.\nIndustrials rose 1.2 percent, including gains for railroad stocks, while financials firmed 0.4 percent.}}
{{Job losses in Canada's transportation and warehousing sector slowed in May as the country's labor market improved.\nThe sector shed 24,000 jobs, or 2.8%, during the month, Statistics Canada said on Friday. Overall, Canada added nearly 290,000 jobs during the month, an increase of 1.8%.\nWhile transportation and warehousing underperformed other sectors, the data in the Labor Force Survey represents a significant improvement over April. The sector saw a decline of more than 10% during that month.\nThe trucking industry accounts for the largest share of the transport and warehousing sector, which also includes far more troubled airlines.\nThe overall employment data came in much stronger than expected. It came as Canada's provinces began allowing more businesses to reopen.\n"This is the kind of surprise we like. We may have only regained a small slice of March and April's unprecedented job losses, but the story could have been much worse," TD Bank senior economist Brian Depratto wrote today.\nClick for more FreightWaves articles by Nate Tabak.}}
{{July 6 (Reuters) - A train carrying petroleum products derailed in a small town in Canada’s French-speaking province of Quebec on Saturday, causing big explosions and sending flames and smoke hundreds of feet into the air.\nThe Canadian Broadcasting Corp said hundreds of people had been evacuated from their homes after the derailment, which took place at around 1 a.m. EDT (0500 GMT) in the town of Lac-Megantic, close to the border with Maine.\nTelevision pictures showed flames shooting into the air and thick black smoke billowing over the town of about 6,000 people.\nThere was no information about any casualties.\nCBC quoted Ontario’s Environment Ministry as saying that 73 rail cars filled with petroleum were involved and CBC’s French language channel said four of the cars had caught fire. Quebec’s environment minister was not immediately available to comment.\nThe rail line was operated by Montreal, Maine & Atlantic, which owns some 510 miles (820 km) of track in Maine and Vermont in the United States and in Quebec and New Brunswick in Canada.\nThere have been a number of high-profile derailments of trains carrying petroleum products, including one in Calgary, Alberta, last week when a flood-damaged bridge sagged toward the still-swollen Bow River. The derailed rail cars were removed without spilling their cargo. (Reporting by Janet Guttsman; Editing by Eric Beech)}}
{{July 24 (Reuters) - Canada’s main stock index looked set to reverse previous session’s losses on Wednesday after euro zone manufacturing data bounced back to growth, signalling a recovery in the region.\nTOP STORIES\n* Euro zone private industry unexpectedly bounced back to growth, but Europe’s recovery risks being derailed as China’s huge manufacturing engine is losing steam, surveys suggested.\n* Canadian Pacific Railway’s second-quarter profit more than doubled due to a jump in freight revenue.\n* Caterpillar Inc reported a 43.5 percent drop in quarterly profit and cut its outlook for the year, saying its dealers were still reducing inventories and demand was weak from the mining industry.\n* Boeing Co posted a better-than-expected 13 percent jump in quarterly profit after delivering more commercial jets, shrugging off concerns about the 787 Dreamliner and sending its shares up 2 percent to an all-time high in premarket trading.\nMARKET SNAPSHOT\n* Canada stock futures traded up 0.05 percent\n* U.S. stock futures , , were up around 0.23 percent and 1.01 percent\n* European shares, were up\nCOMMODITY PRICE MOVES\n* Thomson Reuters-Jefferies CRB Index : 290.5978; fell 0.21 percent\n* Gold futures : $1,341; rose 0.44 percent\n* US crude : $106.9; fell 0.31 percent\n* Brent crude : $107.6; fell 0.76 percent\n* LME 3-month copper : $7,109.5; rose 1 percent\nCANADIAN STOCKS TO WATCH\n* Energy producer Encana Corp reported a 25 percent increase in second-quarter operating profit as oil and natural gas liquids volumes soared.\n* Barrick Gold Corp : The gold miner said on Tuesday it had agreed to sell its energy businesses for about C$455 million, and would recognize a loss of $500 million in its second quarter in connection with the deals.\n* Loblaw Cos Ltd reported a higher quarterly profit as food and clothing sales rose throughout its stores, prompting it to raise its full-year operating income forecast in defiance of tougher competition.\n* Rogers Communications reported a 4 percent rise in quarterly adjusted net profit as wireless data revenue grew 18 percent.\n* Oil producer Cenovus Energy Inc said its second-quarter profit fell over 54 percent.\nANALYSTS’ RECOMMENDATIONS\nFollowing is a summary of research actions on Canadian companies reported by Reuters.\n* Ag Growth International Inc : National Bank Financial raises target price to C$35.50 from C$33.50 on greater confidence of a robust U.S. crop\n* Canexus Corp : CIBC raises price target to C$11 from C$10 after the company announced the Bruderheim agreements with Inter Pipeline Fund and Inter Pipeline Polaris Inc for the delivery of bitumen blend\n* Metals and minerals: CIBC cuts target price of First Quantum Minerals Ltd to C$26 from C$27, Lundin Mining Corp to C$6 from C$6.15 and Teck Resources to C$41 from C$42 citing weaker metals prices due to concerns regarding Chinese credit conditions and growth, which could weigh on earnings\nON THE CALENDAR\n* No major Canadian economic data scheduled for release\n* Major U.S. events and data includes Markit manufacturing PMI and new home sales}}
{{LAC-MEGANTIC, Quebec (Reuters) - Canadian police on Tuesday said they had opened a criminal investigation into the train explosion that likely killed 50 people in Lac-Megantic, and some 200 officers were scouring the town’s devastated center for clues.\nInspector Michel Forget said police did not believe terrorism was involved when a runaway train hauling 72 cars of crude oil barreled into town early on Saturday, derailed on a curve and exploded into a huge fireball that destroyed the center of the lakeside community.\n“I will not speculate on the evidence that we’ve recovered because (it is) secret,” Forget said. But he indicated that some evidence might point to “criminal acts.”\n“We don’t think the terrorism aspect is a part of that,” he added. “Criminal negligence might be one of the leads we are looking at.”\nAlmost a third of the town’s 6,000 residents were evacuated from their homes as firefighters from Canada and the nearby U.S. states of Maine and Vermont struggled to bring the massive blaze under control. Just over half have been allowed back.\nMontreal Maine & Atlantic, which owned the train, is one of many North American railroads that have vastly stepped up crude-by-rail deliveries as producers seek alternatives to pipelines that have been stretched to capacity by higher output in Canada and North Dakota.\nThe oil in the train that crashed was being transported from the Bakken fields of North Dakota to eastern Canada.\nPolice have found 15 bodies, but residents hold out little hope that the 35 or so people still missing will be found alive in an incident that could turn into North America’s worst rail disaster since 1989.\nOfficials from the Transportation Safety Board of Canada said more than a dozen investigators were examining every angle of the accident, although even they had not yet gained access to the central “red zone.”\nRelated Coverage Chronology: Major rail accidents in North America\nCARS AND BRAKES\nKey elements of the TSB probe, led by investigator Donald Ross, will include the strength of the widely used DOT-111 cylindrical tanker cars that carried the crude, as well as how the train, almost a mile long, was secured for the night on a stretch of rail line in Nantes some eight miles from Lac-Megantic.\nIndustry rules say engineers must set enough of a train’s handbrakes to ensure it cannot move, and then test that they have done a proper job. Ross said his team cannot check whether the brakes were set until it can enter the center of town and examine the pile of derailed cars.\nMontreal Maine & Atlantic Chairman Ed Burkhardt told Reuters the company had followed protocol, using the same standard as Canadian Pacific Railways, Canada’s No. 2 railroad.\nThe company had always put a lot of effort into safety, he said in an interview with Canadian Broadcasting Corp.\nA police officer walks amongst axle gear in Lac Megantic, July 9, 2013. REUTERS/Mathieu Belanger\n“Obviously we’ve blown it all with this tragedy,” he said.\nRoss said the train was on a 1.2-percent grade when it started sliding toward Lac-Megantic, a relatively steep grade in railroad terms.\nHe said the train line lacked a signal system that could have warned the dispatcher of a runaway train, and that although all trains are required to have automatic braking systems for runaways - called dead man switches - they only work when the train’s locomotives are running.\nMost of the railcars now lie where the rail line used to run, crumpled together like the squished-up links of a chain.\nSlideshow (6 Images)\n“If we think there needs to be a safety message out to the industry that they need to beef things up, we’re going to do it,” Ross said.\nThe TSB and its U.S. equivalent, the National Transportation Safety Board, have long urged tougher rules for the DOT-111 cars.\nBut nobody knows if stronger cars would have prevented the disaster, which involved a train that Ross said was traveling “well in excess of its authorized speed.”\nThe train was parked in nearby Nantes, Quebec, on Friday night when one of its engines, which had been left running to ensure the air brakes had enough pressure, caught fire. Local firemen turned off the engine, put out the fire and went home.\nThe unattended train then started moving downhill toward Lac-Megantic, and derailed and blew up in the town center at just after 1 a.m. (0500 GMT) on Saturday.\nMontreal, Maine & Atlantic says shutting off the engine caused the air brakes on the locomotive to lose pressure, possibly allowing the train to break free.\nBut a briefing from Transport Canada, which regulates railroads, focused on the train’s handbrakes, a separate system that locks individual locomotives and railcars in place. It highlighted how unusual it was to leave an unattended train on a main line.\nExperts see handbrakes as crucial for trains that are parked overnight, given that air brakes need power from a locomotive.\nWith fires out and authorities probing the center of the blast, the death toll is expected to climb. The coroner’s office asked relatives of the missing to bring in brushes, combs and razors so experts could extract DNA samples from strands of hair.\n“They know their loved ones were there, on the site. Most of them are now waiting for confirmation - because that makes it official,” said Steve Lemay, the parish priest of Lac-Megantic, who has been meeting with families. “It’s clear that they are not waiting for the missing to return.”}}
{{LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Indiana prosecutors have charged a couple with abandoning their adopted daughter in 2013 and moving to Canada, renting an apartment in Lafayette for the then-11-year-old girl but otherwise leaving her to fend for herself.\nProsecutors in Tippecanoe County, where Lafayette is located, filed neglect charges Wednesday against 45-year-old Kristine Elizabeth Barnett and 43-year-old Michael Barnett. They had not been booked or arraigned as of Friday and online court records don't list an attorney for them.\nThe Journal & Courier reports that the couple have an address in Indianapolis, but it wasn't immediately clear if they live there or if they still live in Canada.\nAccording to court documents, the couple adopted the girl, who has dwarfism, in 2010 when she was eight years old. She had come to the U.S. through an adoption program two years earlier from her native Ukraine.}}
{{Travel\nHow To Catch A Glimpse Of The Majestic Polar Bears In Canada\nWe list some of the best places to catch sight of your favourite furries in all their grandeur\nFor many, the allure of Canada lies in its rich and vibrant biodiversity. From badgers and beavers to the caribou, white-tailed deer, lynx, cougars and grey owls, there is enough and more wildlife to marvel at here. But, in Manitoba, resides perhaps the most popular attraction — the polar bear fondly referred to as the Lord of the Arctic. In and around the town of Churchill, nicknamed the Polar Bear Capital of the World, these majestic creatures can be observed in the wild.\nBear viewing in the region began in the early ’80s, soon after Churchill resident Leonard D. Smith invented the Tundra Buggy in 1979. It is essentially an all-terrain vehicle that is used to traverse the landscape to view, study and photograph polar bears in their natural habitats.\nWhile in Churchill, don’t miss a chance to catch the Aurora Borealis, as it is considered one of the top three destinations in the world to observe the phenomenon. If you’re wondering how to catch a glimpse of the bears, you’re in luck. Even though October and November are peak viewing season, there are a host of local tourism companies — concentrated in Churchill — that work round the year to facilitate sighting of the animals, and then some more. Here are some of the best:\nFrontiers North Adventures\nWith three decades of wildlife adventures under its belt, suffice it to say that you’ll be in safe hands. Furthermore, the term Tundra Buggy can only be used for vehicles operated by Frontier North Adventures. Choose an excursion that’s right for you — go deep into the recesses of the Churchill Wildlife Management Area, the heart of polar bear country; learn about how climate change is impacting their habitat from Polar Bears International researchers and scientists; or venture to Cape Churchill and take some fantastic photographs at what is considered the best location on earth to photograph the animals.\nChurchill Wild\nTheir Great Ice Bear Adventure takes place in prime season, when the bears congregate on the coast of Hudson Bay and await the beginning of their annual hunt; the Hudson Bay Odyssey allows you to observe the maternal instincts of polar bear mothers at close range; the Polar Bear Photo Safari — Nanuk, lets you explore the Artic landscape on foot (with professional guides, of course) and take snapshots of the beautiful animals in a pristine, undisturbed environment; and the Polar Bear Den Emergence Quest — undoubtedly the most adventurous of the lot — offers the chance to photograph the females and their newborn cubs in the Cape Tatnam area.\nLazy Bear Expeditions\nIf you’re eyeing the months from July to August, you wouldn’t want to miss out on their Ultimate Arctic Summer Adventure. The five-day trip not only offers you the chance to encounter exotic wildlife such as beluga whales, siksiks and snow fox, but also allows you to watch polar bears as they leave the melting sea ice. What’s more, the Sam Hearne, a coast guard certified boat, will take you to one of the more remote sighting areas on the west side of Hudson Bay where you’ll get to see them swimming freely and walking lazily around rocks. And if luck is on your side (weather and wildlife conditions permitting), you can disembark the boat and walk alongside them, too.\nGreat White Bear Tours Inc.\nThe company spoils you for choice when it comes to bear watching. You are at liberty to pick from package tours like the Classic Polar Bear Photo Adventure, where an expert photographer-naturalist will guide you on a seven-day journey; the Ultimate Churchill Adventure, an immersive experience that which will take you to the animals’ den and let you view them from the Polar Rover tundra vehicle; the Churchill Arctic Family Adventure, where you can spot them from a helicopter; and many more.\nNo matter which adventure you pick, you can be rest assured that Manitoba will steal your heart and leave you with a lifetime of memories.\nWandering Around Winnipeg\nSpanning five ecozones and situated as it is in the heart of the Hudson Bay watershed, Manitoba is rich in both flora and fauna. Before you embark on a walk on the wild side, get your dose of art, culture and history in the province’s capital, Winnipeg.\nCelebratory occasions\nPick from the Winnipeg Folk Festival, one of the oldest and largest in the world; Folklorama, which is the world’s longest running multicultural one; or Festival du Voyageur, Western Canada’s largest winter event. Another worth attending takes place on the west side of Lake Winnipeg — this is the Islendingadagurinn or Icelandic Festival of Manitoba, organised by the Gimli community (the largest Icelandic community outside of Iceland).\nVisual delights\nArt aficionados will enjoy the Winnipeg Art Gallery, which houses a comprehensive collection of contemporary Inuit art. Catch a ballet performance at the Royal Winnipeg Ballet, Canada’s oldest dance company, and watch an original production at Rainbow Stage, the country’s longest-running outdoor theatre.\nOld-world charms\nFor a taste of history, visit the Manitoba Museum, where you can catch sight of the Isotelus — the world’s largest trilobite found as a complete fossil. Then head to the Exchange District in downtown Winnipeg and marvel at over 100 heritage buildings, indulge in retail therapy, feast on prairie-inspired dishes and partake in the local nightlife.}}
{{CTVNews.ca Staff\nAfter the Senate voted to pass a bill legalizing recreational cannabis in Canada, the legislation sparked headlines and social media reaction around the globe.\nNews of the bill passing made its way onto CNN, Newsweek, and the BBC, to name a few. Most of the international stories chose to compare Canada’s new law to their own and speculate about the possibility of Canada’s rules spreading elsewhere.\nWhile the Washington Post kept it simple with a headline reading “Canada's Senate votes to legalize marijuana,” Esquire magazine was a tad edgier with “Canada just legalized marijuana throughout the whole damn country.” CBS News had an entire story speculating about the future of legal pot in the U.K., titled “After Canada, will U.K. be next to legalize marijuana?”\nA number of stories quoted an AFP interview with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau from May where he states that several countries would likely follow suit with legalization after seeing how it goes in Canada.\nOther news organizations pointed out that Trudeau has admitted to smoking marijuana “five or six times” with his friends.\nVox, an American news and opinion website, broke down what Canada’s legalization means for U.S. drug policy and said if international treaties against drug trafficking aren’t changed, they could be rendered useless, which would open up the world to legalized pot.\nIn the United States, nine states have already legalized recreational marijuana, although it’s illegal federally. During a media availability at the recent G7 summit, U.S. President Donald Trump said that he would “probably” support a bill currently making its way through Washington that would no longer consider buying and selling pot drug trafficking.\nBusiness Insider, an American financial and business news website, took a financial angle on the story, by referring to a “new” May 7 report from CIBC indicating legal marijuana could outsell liquor in Canada by 2020.\nOn Late Night with Seth Meyers, Meyers spoke about Canada’s new regulations during his monologue and joked the rules “make sense considering their prime minister is already smoking.”\nOn social media, several people chose to contrast the difference in federal politics between Canada and our neighbours to the South, comparing Canada’s pot laws to American immigration policy, in which children are being separated from their parents after illegally crossing the border.\n*Runs into Canada @ Farmers Market*\nCANADA: "Omg, hi! I just legalized marijuana!"\n"Congrats"\nCANADA: "How have you been? Something about babies & borders?"\n"It's been a busy few days"\nCANADA: "Lol, gotta run but let's def catch up at the UN Human Rights Council! Kisses!" pic.twitter.com/wEyiKGZDXd — Ben Philippe (@gohomeben) June 20, 2018\nSo Canada legalizes marijuana and we’re locking up toddlers? Yea, making America so great again... — Kameron Michaels (@KameronMichaels) June 20, 2018\nTop news story in the United States: Immigration detention centres are separating children from their parents and holding them.\nTop news story in Canada: Senate votes to legalise marijuana. — TheAsianGoddess™️ (@theasiangoddesx) June 20, 2018\nCanada has now legalized marijuana while we are still prosecuting individuals way to go America we are doin a real good job — moisturemob21 (@Keepitmoist21) June 20, 2018\nWay to go Canada for legalizing marijuana! With the a$$ in the white house, we won’t do it soon, but it is inevitable, and it is about time. Safe access to ALL drugs would make this world a much better place. (Besides, weed is safer than alcohol, nicotine and likely sugar!) — jalfern (@jalfern) June 20, 2018\nOther users announced plans to either visit or make the move to Canada following Tuesday’s announcement.\nBruh Canada just legalized recreational marijuana. I’m moving — A Hot Potato (@KAMaldonado12) June 20, 2018}}
{{TORONTO, July 17 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index opened higher on Wednesday after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke reassured markets by saying the U.S. central bank's plans for its monetary stimulus program were not set in stone. The Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index was up 55.96 points, or 0.45 percent, at 12,572.79 shortly after the open.}}
{{Every Wednesday, a curling team troops into Rosie’s on River Street in Moose Jaw, Sask. and orders a round. Their tipple of choice at this well-loved local: Rebellion Lentil Cream Ale. “They drink pints and pints of it,” says Chris Schubert, the managing partner at Rosie’s. The beer is also popular with summer tourists looking for some local flavour on visits to this small city, he says. “And it doesn’t get much more local than a Saskatchewan beer made with lentils.”\nRebellion Brewery—one of the province’s first microbreweries—produces the ale, using lentils from AGT Food and Ingredients, a processor and supplier of agricultural products. Murad Al-Katib founded the company in his Regina basement in 2001, and took it public (TSX: AGT) in 2007. A decade later, AGT has more than 40 facilities and sells into 120 countries around the world; revenue in 2016 was $1.9 billion. Its success has come from a combination of ambitious expansion into new markets, smart acquisitions, an innovative business model, and good timing.\nCanada is the world’s largest producer of lentils, and ranks among the world’s top five producers of pulses—the broader category of legumes that also includes beans and peas. Two factors account for the tremendous growth of the category in recent years: first, booming emerging markets like India, Bangladesh, China and Turkey are driving high demand; second, new crop research at the University of Saskatchewan has boosted yields for Canadian producers, fuelling the supply side.\nAGT built its substantial business by connecting those two markets to an extent no one had before, in the process becoming an important hub in the global lentil market, connecting suppliers and buyers around the world. “They’ve got multi-origin, multi-destination capabilities, which most players globally do not have,” says Steve Hansen, a senior vice-president and equity analyst at Raymond James.\nBuilding a global-scale order book was the first phase of AGT’s expansion; the second is now focused on vertical integration, buying key infrastructure up and down the supply chain. In 2015, the company spent $57.5 million to buy Mobil Capital Holdings, which owned and operated Saskatchewan’s Big Sky Rail and Last Mountain Railway. Combined with a previous acquisition, the deal gave AGT control of 683 km of track in the heart of the country’s pulse basket. “They crowded out a lot of the other global majors when they made that purchase, which was smart,” says Hansen. AGT now owns locomotives and loading sites where farmers can drop their crop deliveries in Saskatchewan, along with a terminal in Thunder Bay, Ont.; the company leases a fleet of grain cars that can be handed off to major freight movers to connect the two. There’s also a distribution centre in Tianjin, China, and a processing and storage plant in Mersin, Turkey, among other assets. Owning so many of the logistical control points of the pulse trade is a core part of AGT’s competitive advantage in what is otherwise a low-margin commodity business. “It’s not only about how great my products are,” says Al-Katib, who this month was named World Entrepreneur of the Year for 2017 by consultancy EY. “Infrastructure that is not replicable—that ultimately creates a barrier to entry.”\nMost commodity giants move tons of un- or lightly-cleaned dry goods in the holds of bulk carrier ships. But AGT has long focused higher up the value chain, processing the pulses it buys from farmers near the source. Take chickpeas. AGT separates them out by size. The seven millimetre ones go to a hummus manufacturer; the eight- to the company’s own Laval, Que. canning factory; the nine- to a European canner; and the 10- to a U.S. packaging company for the Hispanic market. “Our ability to take that product, segregate the different sizes and attack the different markets, allows us to create margin,” says Al-Katib.\nAGT does its shipping in 20- to 50-kg bags via container. The strategy allows it to “really merchandise the product,” Hansen says. The company has worked to create a premium brand—a practice that’s commonplace in the retail world, but less so at the wholesale stage. “We moved to what we call ‘laminated bags,’ which have full picture graphics,” Al-Katib says. The packaging costs AGT $3 to $4 a ton—a considerable sum for an agricultural product. But it clearly differentiates AGT’s merchandise, putting it at a premium to the rest of the market. Al-Katib illustrates with an incident that occurred a couple of years ago. One of the bag shipments was held up, so AGT used its old packaging design. “The importer phones us and says, ‘I can’t sell this product anymore. People will think it’s counterfeit, because it has your old bag,’” Al-Katib recalls.\nGrowing emerging-market consumption has been the mainstay of AGT’s growth, but the company has also developed a lucrative sideline serving food-conscious consumers in North American and European markets. “There were something like 2,000 products launched in North America last year using pulse ingredients as a major component,” Al-Katib says. Among them was the new Veggie Harvest line from Frito-Lays brand SunChips, which contains AGT’s yellow peas. Pulses, he says, are the perfect ingredient to meet the growing demand from young shoppers for products that check a long list of boxes: high-protein, high-fibre and gluten-free. Hansen says AGT has played a pioneering role in positioning pulse-based starches and proteins as food ingredients.\nAnother consumer choice trend is likely to boost the use of pulses in food products. Companies using genetically-modified (GM) foods will soon face labelling requirements, Al-Katib forecasts. In a 2016 Health Canada survey, just 26% of respondents said they were comfortable eating GM foods, and 78% want them to be identified as such on the package. While there has been research into GM pulses and the Indian government has contemplated their use, Canadian fields remain free of them. Al-Katib won’t weigh in on any side of the science, but he says pulses’ non-GM status is a “marketing attribute” that gives it an edge over another frequently-used food ingredient, corn. “There’s a target consumer base that isn’t small any longer that is demanding these products,” he says.\nThat includes lentil beer. Back in Moose Jaw, Schubert says Rebellion’s passes the most important consumer test: taste. “It stands on its own as a good beer, and it just happens to be gluten-free and made with lentils.”\nMORE ABOUT FOOD & AGRICULTURE:}}
{{FILE - In this Sept. 26, 2018, file photo, visitors look at a display for 5G wireless technology from Chinese technology firm Huawei at the PT Expo in Beijing. While a Huawei executive faces possible U.S. charges over trade with Iran, the Chinese tech giant's ambition to be a leader in next-generation telecoms is colliding with security worries abroad. Mark Schiefelbein, File AP Photo}}
{{TORONTO, July 24 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index opened higher on Wednesday, boosted by gains in Encana Corp after the energy company reported quarterly results, offsetting a decline in gold miners. The Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index was up 17.32 points, or 0.14 percent, at 12,762.70 shortly after the open.}}
{{TORONTO, July 3 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index fell in volatile trading on Wednesday as political turmoil in Portugal and Egypt coupled with sluggish data out of China to stoke renewed worries about the global economic recovery. The Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index unofficially closed down 32.70 points, or 0.27 percent, at 12,145.68. Eight of the 10 main sectors on the index were in the red.}}
{{Eight B.C. communities can claim they are the friendliest in the country.\nIt’s no surprise that Canadians are friendly when it comes to travelling, but now eight B.C. communities can claim they are the friendliest in the country, at least according to travel website Expedia.\nLast week, the company released their second annual report of the friendliest towns in Canada, using a look at hotel data from 2017 and found the highest-rated service score.\nOut of 750 destinations in #Canada, we found the top 25 friendliest based on hotel reviews: https://t.co/WT5DDeLWD4 pic.twitter.com/pYevkB8C2C — Expedia.ca (@ExpediaCA) June 19, 2018\nThey narrowed down a list of 750 destinations, towns and communities to 25 which had at least 100 reviews and a four-star rating or higher.\nComing in at number three is Tofino (“it might just be those surfer vibes that make (it) so friendly”), followed by neighbour Ucluelet at 15, Courtenay at 16, Invermere at 18, Radium Hot Springs at 19, Nelson at 20, Fernie at 22 and Victoria at 23.}}
{{* TSX rises 93.43 points, or 0.74 percent, to 12,662.20 * All 10 main index sectors advance * RBC jump has biggest impact on index By John Tilak TORONTO, July 18 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index advanced on Thursday to its highest level in 1-1/2 months as investors took heart from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's comments that the U.S. central bank will adopt a flexible approach in dialing back its stimulus program. Led by gains in financials and a jump in gold miners, the Toronto market's Fed-inspired rally spilled over into a second session as investors remained fixated on the Fed chairman's congressional testimony. Bernanke said on Wednesday that the Fed expects to start scaling back its bond purchases later this year, but he left open the option of changing that plan if the economic outlook shifts. "The Fed has reassured markets they're not going to take the training wheels off the economy until it's more than ready," said Stan Wong, a portfolio manager at Macquarie Private Wealth. "It's soothing the markets that the withdrawal of quantitative easing is more data-dependent and not calendar-dependent." "The odds of a taper in September might have gone down a little bit," he added. "It's not a set schedule. It's just going to be based on where the economy goes from here." The Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index was up 93.43 points, or 0.74 percent, at 12,662.20, after reaching 12,663.47, its highest point since June 3. All of the 10 main sectors on the index were higher. Financials, the index's most heavily weighted sector, gained 1.2 percent. Royal Bank of Canada, the country's biggest lender, jumped 1.5 percent to C$64.76 and had the biggest positive influence on the index. Toronto-Dominion Bank was up 1.2 percent, at C$87.23. Energy shares climbed 0.8 percent, reflecting gains in the price of oil. In the group, Canadian Natural Resources Ltd added 2 percent to C$34.04, and Suncor Energy Inc rose 0.7 percent to C$32.87. The materials sector, which includes mining stocks, was helped by gains in gold mining stocks, which had a volatile session. Barrick Gold Corp rose almost 1 percent to C$16.50, and Goldcorp Inc was up 0.5 percent at C$27.77. "You'll see an oversold bounce in gold," Wong said. "You're also getting into a positive season for gold." Wong predicted another 5 percent jump in the price of the precious metal, but he does not recommend investing in the sector long term.}}
{{The body found Friday evening in a cement quarry in the Quebec City neighbourhood of Beauport has been identified as that of a teenager who was reported missing Wednesday.\nThe boy’s body was found in a body of water at the bottom of the quarry, located near the Samuel-de-Champlain High School.\nAurélien Chuop-Mourareau, 16, had not been seen since 10:30 Wednesday morning, when he was in the schoolyard of L’Ancienne-Lorette High School, where he was a student. It was reported that he left suddenly.\nThe young man may have been the victim of an accidental fall, or an intentional one. Police are also investigating whether it could have been a criminal act.}}
{{Almost Done!\nPlease confirm your details below.\nAlready have an account? Sign In.\nPostmedia wants to improve your reading experience as well as share the best deals and promotions from our advertisers with you. The information below will be used to optimize the content and make ads across the network more relevant to you. You can always change the information you share with us by editing your profile. Birthdate {* birthdate *} Gender {* gender *}\nAttention Print Newspaper Subscribers\nFor verification of Print Subscriber offers (e.g. epaper, Digital Access, Subscriber Rewards), please input your Print Newspaper subscription phone number and postal code. {* phone *} {* addressPostalCode *} {* phone *} {* addressPostalCode *}\n{* #registrationForm *} {* firstName *} {* lastName *} {* emailAddress *} {* displayName *} {* newPassword *} {* newPasswordConfirm *}\nBy clicking "Create Account", I hearby grant permission to Postmedia to use my account information to create my account.\nI also accept and agree to be bound by Postmedia's Terms and Conditions with respect to my use of the Site and I have read and understand Postmedia's Privacy Statement. I consent to the collection, use, maintenance, and disclosure of my information in accordance with the Postmedia's Privacy Policy.\n{* backButton *}\n{* /registrationForm *}}}
{{Canada celebrates the fishing schooner “Bluenose” on several coins in 2021, including this selectively gold plated Proof silver dollar, available only as part of the annual Silver Proof set.\nThe Royal Canadian Mint is launching a year-long celebration of the schooner Bluenose with several coins dedicated to the famously swift sailing ship.\nOne hundred years ago, Bluenose emerged from the Smith and Rhuland shipyard in Lunenburg, Nova Scotia, and sailed into the hearts and minds of Canadians as the fastest and most graceful fishing schooner the world had ever seen. The pride felt by its architect, William James Roué, and of those who built and crewed it, continues to be shared from coast to coast to coast.\nIn its first season, Bluenose both hauled in a record catch on the Grand Banks and brought the International Fishermen’s Trophy back to Nova Scotia. It remained the undefeated champion in this racing series and proudly defended the title “Queen of the North Atlantic Fishing Fleet.”\nThe beloved Bluenose found a home on the 10-cent coin when Canada’s circulation coins were redesigned in 1937 to celebrate Canada’s favorite national symbols.\nNow the ship is being honored on the annual Proof silver dollar and a Proof gold $100 coin.\nCanadian marine artist Yves Bérubé captured the vision of Roué on the reverse of the 2021 Proof silver dollar.\nHis design illustrates both the dream and reality of the project: part of the original plans of Design No. 17, which would become Bluenose, the legendary schooner under full sail.\nThe architect’s hand can be seen finishing the drawing, as is an engraving of his signature, as it appeared on the original Bluenose sail plan.\nThe obverse features the effigy of King George V, who was Canada’s monarch in 1921.\nThe same design is used for the annual Silver Proof set but is enhanced with selective gold plating.\nThe set is composed of silver versions of Canada’s circulating denominations, including a special 1921–2021 double-dated 10-cent coin.\nTo design the reverse of the gold $100 coin, RCM engravers drew from a historical photograph and Roué’s hull design to show two perspectives of Bluenose.\nThe newly finished hull, adorned with signal flags at its March 26, 1921, launch, appears to float over a cross-sectional diagram showing both the bow and stern of Bluenose.\nThe obverse features the effigy of Queen Elizabeth II by Susanna Blunt.\nThe plain Proof silver dollar has a mintage limit of 30,000 pieces and retails for $69.95 Canadian. It becomes available Feb. 2.\nThe Silver Proof set is limited to 20,000 units retailing for $234.95 Canadian each, to be available March 2.\nThe gold $100 coin, available Jan. 12, has a mintage limit of 2,000 pieces at a retail price of $1,095.95 Canadian each.\nFor more information, or to order, visit the RCM website, www.mint.ca.\nConnect with Coin World:\nSign up for our free eNewsletter\nAccess our Dealer Directory\nLike us on Facebook\nFollow us on Twitter}}
{{By By Karen Graham 1 hour ago in Politics Gatineau - With the increase in severe flooding occurring more frequently in Canada, the cost of rebuilding a home or business in the same area is escalating. Canada is testing a very different idea of disaster recovery: Forcing people to move. In the City of Gatineau - just across the river from Canada's capital city of Ottawa, many residents will not be able to sell their home and the government won't let them rebuild. This last bout of severe flooding has forced the government to tell people who lost more than 50 percent of the value of their home to just leave, according to Canada is doing something that is very different from the way the United States handles repeated rebuilding in flood zones. In the U.S., the government just hands out the funds to replace your house right in the same spot it was when it was damaged. However, as East Village in Calgary, during the Alberta floods 2013. Ryan L. C. Quan (CC BY-SA 3.0) Canada's new plan is a response to the escalating costs of the climate crisis, and it has already resulted in a complex mix of relief, anger, and loss as entire neighborhoods are removed, house by house. “Canadians are stubbornly beginning to reconsider the wisdom of building near flood-prone areas,” said Jason Thistlethwaite, a professor of environment and business at the University of Waterloo in Ontario. “It’s taking government action to obligate people to make better decisions.” "I lived through it … two years ago. I'm living it through it now. I don't want to go through this again," said Louise David in May, who put $47,000 worth of work into her home after the 2017 floods, as After this year's floods, in a new provincial program, the Quebec government is offering up to $100,000 to homeowners for flood damage compensation or a $200,000 buyout for them to move outside flood areas. The province will also compensate residents an extra $50,000 for the land around their homes, said Mathieu Lévesque, the MNA for Chapleau. Anyone that chooses money to repair their home won't be eligible for future renovation compensation, he said, though they could be eligible for the buyout if another flood occurs. File photo: Cartierville neighborhood of Montreal, 8 May 2017. Exile on Ontario St from Montreal, Canada (CC BY-SA 2.0) The cost of climate change is soaring In Hurricane Dorian struck the Bahamas as a Category 5 tropical cyclone and then moved on to become the third hurricane to strike North Carolina in four years. Ocracoke Island in the Outer Banks was hit this time, just as the island was hit by one of the earlier storms. And people will just rebuild, and rebuild again. But Canada is behaving differently, yet responsibly. “What everybody would like is for the problem to not exist. But it does,” said David Foster, spokesman for the Canadian Home Builders’ Association, according to the The Canadian Home Builders’ Association supports the steps that officials in Canada are taking. “We expect the government will behave maturely, and sometimes that means taking an approach that is difficult but wise.” In April this year, over 2,500 homes were damaged with over 2,100 people cut off due to washed-out roads or landslides, caused by record-breaking flooding for the second time in less than three years.In the City of Gatineau - just across the river from Canada's capital city of Ottawa, many residents will not be able to sell their home and the government won't let them rebuild. This last bout of severe flooding has forced the government to tell people who lost more than 50 percent of the value of their home to just leave, according to EcoWatch. Canada is doing something that is very different from the way the United States handles repeated rebuilding in flood zones. In the U.S., the government just hands out the funds to replace your house right in the same spot it was when it was damaged.However, as Digital Journal reported in May, the average cost of damage from severe weather stood at $400 million in Canada per year in 2017, and that figure is up from $100 million a year in 2009.Canada's new plan is a response to the escalating costs of the climate crisis, and it has already resulted in a complex mix of relief, anger, and loss as entire neighborhoods are removed, house by house.“Canadians are stubbornly beginning to reconsider the wisdom of building near flood-prone areas,” said Jason Thistlethwaite, a professor of environment and business at the University of Waterloo in Ontario. “It’s taking government action to obligate people to make better decisions.”"I lived through it … two years ago. I'm living it through it now. I don't want to go through this again," said Louise David in May, who put $47,000 worth of work into her home after the 2017 floods, as CBC Canada reported. After this year's floods, in a new provincial program, the Quebec government is offering up to $100,000 to homeowners for flood damage compensation or a $200,000 buyout for them to move outside flood areas. The province will also compensate residents an extra $50,000 for the land around their homes, said Mathieu Lévesque, the MNA for Chapleau.Anyone that chooses money to repair their home won't be eligible for future renovation compensation, he said, though they could be eligible for the buyout if another flood occurs.In a typical year, U.S. taxpayer spending on the federal disaster relief fund is almost 10 times higher than it was three decades ago, even after adjusting for inflation, based on an analysis of federal data. The surge in disaster spending in the U.S. and Canada reflects the changes caused by global warming as well as the continued population growth in flood-prone areas.Hurricane Dorian struck the Bahamas as a Category 5 tropical cyclone and then moved on to become the third hurricane to strike North Carolina in four years. Ocracoke Island in the Outer Banks was hit this time, just as the island was hit by one of the earlier storms. And people will just rebuild, and rebuild again.But Canada is behaving differently, yet responsibly. “What everybody would like is for the problem to not exist. But it does,” said David Foster, spokesman for the Canadian Home Builders’ Association, according to the New York Timers. The Canadian Home Builders’ Association supports the steps that officials in Canada are taking. “We expect the government will behave maturely, and sometimes that means taking an approach that is difficult but wise.” More about Canada, Climate crisis, Extreme weather, flood zones, Rebuilding Canada Climate crisis Extreme weather flood zones Rebuilding}}
{{CTVNews.ca Staff\nHealth Canada is recalling certain U.S. cauliflower, red and green lettuce products sold across the country including in Ontario, Prince Edward Island, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick.\nAccording to a warning released by the Canada Food Inspection Agency, certain products from Adam Bros. Family Farms, a farm in California, could be contaminated with E. coli bacteria.\nAlthough the products were sold in Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, and Newfoundland and Labrador, the warning mentions other provinces could also be affected.\nThe cauliflower products are clearly labelled with “Adam Brothers Family Farms” but the lettuce produce are not. Health Canada is urging consumers unsure whether they have affected produce to contact their retailer for more information.\nContaminated produce may not appear or smell contaminated but will still make you sick. If those products are ingested, contamination could lead to symptoms of nausea, vomiting and in more extreme cases, seizures, strokes, permanent kidney damage or even, death.\nThe Canadian recall was triggered by a U.S. recall which came after multiple cases of food poisoning and E. coli contamination from certain lettuce products. On Thursday, the contaminated products were traced back to the U.S. farm.\nRecalled products should be thrown away or returned to the store where they were purchased.}}
{{Police in Canada have launched an investigation after a patron at a Yukon bar allegedly stole the famed ingredient of their signature drink: a mummified human toe.\nFor more than 40 years the Downtown hotel in Dawson City has served up the sourtoe cocktail, a shot of whisky with a blackened toe – nail and all – bobbing inside. Those who manage to touch the gnarled, severed toe to their lips earn a certificate.\nOn Saturday a customer took it one step further, allegedly making off with the wrinkled digit after swallowing his drink. “We are furious,” said Terry Lee of the hotel. “Toes are very hard to come by.”\nFacebook Twitter Pinterest Terry Lee of the hotel displays the toe. Photograph: Alan Solomo/Alamy Stock Photo\nThe man had apparently boasted of his plans to steal the toe earlier in the evening. He later convinced a staff member to let him try the drink outside of the designated two-hour window known at the bar as toe time. “And this is how he pays her back,” Lee said in a news release. “What a lowlife.”\nThe tradition claims to trace its roots to the 1920s, when a rum runner preserved his frostbitten, amputated big toe in a jar of alcohol in his cabin. Some 50 years later, the pickled toe was discovered by a Yukon native who brought it to the Downtown Hotel, where it became a celebrated ingredient in their drinks.\nAfter Saturday’s theft, the hotel contacted the police and began offering a reward to anyone with information that leads to the missing toe. “We fortunately have a couple back-up toes, but we really need this one back,” said Lee.\nIt was the newest addition to their collection, donated by a man who had had to have his toe surgically removed. After curing it for six months in salt, the staff had only begun adding it to drinks this weekend, the hotel manager told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. “This was our new toe, and it was a really good one,” said Geri Coulbourne.\nAt least eight other toes have gone missing over the years, some stolen while others have been swallowed. The original toe belonging to the rum runner was accidentally swallowed by a miner after seven years at the hotel, giving rise to another tradition: the hotel’s constant search for toes.\n“Got frostbite?” reads an advertisement on its website, which goes on to promise that those who donate toes will be “immortalised in the Sourtoe Hall of Fame”. The hotel said it had received 10 donated toes – big toes are preferred – over the years, including a few that were left to the establishment through wills.\nThe tradition last made headlines in 2013, after a man seemingly deliberately swallowed the toe in his drink before slapping down C$500 –the fine at the time for anyone who stole or swallowed the toe.\nThe hotel responded by raising the fine to C$2,500. Staff said they fully intend to charge the latest thief the full fine unless the toe is returned intact. When it comes to tracking him down, they may have caught a lucky break – the man left behind his sourtoe cocktail certificate, meaning police now have his name.}}
{{July 3 (Reuters) - Canada’s main stock index looked set to open lower on Wednesday, pulled down by disappointing services sector data from China and a political crisis in Portugal.\nTOP STORIES\n* China’s services sector expanded modestly in June with the vast construction industry acting as a drag on output, in a further sign that the world’s second-largest economy is losing momentum.\n* The euro zone economy looks on course to stabilise in the second half of this year, even if a return to outright growth is still a while off, business surveys suggested.\n* Two more Portuguese ministers from the junior ruling coalition party were ready to resign, local media said, deepening turmoil that could trigger a snap election and derail Lisbon’s exit from an EU/IMF bailout.\n* A federal judge has approved HSBC Holdings Plc’s record $1.92 billion settlement with federal and state investigators of charges that it flouted rules designed to stop money laundering and thwart transactions with countries under U.S. sanctions.\n* Toyota Motor Corp, said it was recalling around 185,000 vehicles globally, including the Yaris compact, owing to a glitch in the electric power steering system that could make the steering heavier.\nMARKET SNAPSHOT\n* Canada stock futures traded down 0.4 percent\n* U.S. stock futures , , were down around 0.54 percent to 0.47 percent\n* European shares, were down\nCOMMODITY PRICE MOVES\n* Thomson Reuters-Jefferies CRB Index : 282.0187; rose 0.64 percent\n* Gold futures : $1,250; rose 0.51 percent\n* US crude : $101.62; rose 2.03 percent\n* Brent crude : $105.38; rose 1.33 percent\n* LME 3-month copper : $6,937; rose 0.39 percent\nANALYSTS’ RECOMMENDATIONS\nFollowing is a summary of research actions on Canadian companies reported by Reuters.\n* Bonterra Energy : NBF resumes coverage with outperform, says the company’s capital budget is expected to provide for the drilling of about 30 net Cardium wells in West Central Alberta and deliver a stable average production base of 12,000 boe/day.\n* Brigus Gold : BMO cuts price target to C$0.70 from C$0.85, says while the the company’s resource update is positive to net present value, this is offset by the decline in the spot gold price.\n* Coastal Energy : CIBC cuts target to C$19 from C$20, says Bua Ban North is a good asset which can provide significant free cash flow but management must improve its market disclosure.\n* Elemental Minerals Ltd : NBF cuts price target to C$0.64 from C$1 on valuation.\n* Kirkland Lake Gold : BMO ups target to C$19 from C$17, expects the company to generate sufficient cash at the spot gold price to fund its capital program internally.\nON THE CALENDAR\n* Major Canadian economic data includes exports, imports and trade balance.\n* Major U.S. events and data includes initial and continuing claims, mortgage index, ADP national employment and ISM non-manufacturing index}}
{{One is a hairdresser in Lévis who sometimes wears her Storm Alliance sweatshirt while clipping hair or dying it mermaid blue.\nA proud member of La Meute owns a restaurant in St-Paulin, in Mauricie, where she serves a $6.99 lunch special and karaoke on Saturday nights.\nThen there’s La Meute’s new secretary and accountant, from St-Jean-sur-Richelieu – the first woman to attend the group’s council meetings, even if it is just to take notes and pay the bills.\nThe three are among the growing contingent of women in Quebec’s far-right groups, an increasingly feminine face of the anti-immigrant, anti-Muslim movement hoping to make waves this weekend with demonstrations first at the Lacolle border Saturday, Sept. 30, then in Quebec City on Monday, Oct. 2.\nAfter attending the Storm Alliance protest in Lacolle, a group of women calling itself “les Irréductibles Québécoises” – diehard Quebecers – will be marching and picnicking at the National Assembly Oct. 2 to denounce the government and the “Muslim invasion.”\nBut what is drawing these women to the far-right, normally a stronghold of white, alpha males? And what does it signal for the movement?\nWomen have always been in the shadows of far-right groups, say experts, but they are moving into the spotlight as the far right takes on a more mainstream veneer.\n***\nBack in the 1920s, a group of women from Arkansas formed their own branch of the Klu Klux Klan. The WKKK, with 500,000 members across the U.S., was restricted to white, Protestant, non-immigrant women. It would join the KKK for parades and social functions but Klanswomen were not allowed to be part of the KKK per se because of their gender.\nFast forward almost 100 years and white supremacist groups like Stormfront and Richard Spencer’s “alt-right” are misogynist – or at least see men and women having separate roles, with women’s main responsibility being to breed.\nSome of the newest far-right groups in Canada, like the Proud Boys and the National Guard – the latter which will be joining Storm Alliance in border protests on Saturday – are restricted to men. The 10 tenets of the Proud Boys include stopping immigration and venerating the housewife.\nBut according to Benjamin Ducol, of the Montreal Centre for the Prevention of Radicalization Leading to Violence, other groups have softened their discourse to appear less radical and appeal to women.\n“There’s a feminization of extreme-right political parties and of movements like La Meute and Storm Alliance, where women are more visible,” Ducol said.\nWomen now lead several far-right parties in Europe, including France’s Front National, whose share of the women’s vote went up by almost 20 per cent to 25 per cent in the decade since Marine Le Pen took over from her father. And a woman now heads Quebec’s Soldats d’Odin, though some say that’s why that group splintered into Storm Alliance and the National Guard.\n“In the 1930s, the women of the extreme right were to stay home and cook and raise the children. Today they’ve taken up a different discourse that isn’t feminist but that aligns with women’s causes.”\nIn Quebec, they say they are defending women against the veil and oppression, and that resonates with women, Ducol said.\n“What is perverse is that it is not a defence of all women – just of Western women, and it only allows one idea of femininity. According to their thinking, someone who wears a veil is necessarily oppressed, and that reinforces xenophobia and racist attitudes.”\nAurélie Campana, the head of research on terrorism and extremism at Université Laval, who has just finished four years of research into extreme-right groups in Canada, says these groups remain dominated by men, but some have recalibrated their message to fit with the news of the day and widen their base.\nToday’s grievances in Quebec include the hearings on systemic racism, NDP leadership candidate Jagmeet Singh (he wears a turban), “illegal” immigration across the U.S. border, and the supposedly impending introduction of Sharia law.\n“Women always refused to talk to us – they didn’t want to be stigmatized because of their political allegiance,” Campana said. “But the context wasn’t the same. Now it is less stigmatizing to be part of a group seen as being on the far right. We’ve normalized these groups, and they have understood if they want greater resonance, they have to address the women.”\nCampana says these groups have been adept at exploiting stereotypes and taking intellectual shortcuts that equate fighting Islam with fighting for women.\nThe New Year’s Eve sexual attacks on women in Cologne, Germany, where hundreds of women were groped or molested, and some of them raped by immigrants of North African descent, were played and replayed in the social networks of anti-Islam groups in Quebec, Ducol said.\nWhen there were sexual assaults on the Université Laval campus last spring, ultimately blamed on one student of North African origin, the parallel was made.\nLa Meute, for example, now offers women’s self-defence classes.\nBoth researchers say the far right is no more prevalent in Quebec than in the rest of Canada, where women are also increasingly visible.\nThe difference stems from the particular history of women’s rights in Quebec, where women had to fight against the oppression of the Catholic Church. Groups play on their fear of being newly oppressed, this time by Sharia law.\nA video to promote Monday’s march begins with black-and-white photographs of some of the heroes of women’s emancipation in Quebec: Thérèse Casgrain, who led the suffragette movement in Quebec, followed by Lise Payette – a journalist and minister under René Lévesque.\nNext come today’s heroes, including Janette Bertrand – an actress who campaigned in favour of the 2013 Charter of Values – and Josée Rivard, a brash Gatineau woman who films her rants against Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Quebec Premier Philippe Couillard from her car and then posts them on YouTube.\nThen in colour comes the image of a white woman wearing nothing but the European flag, with brown hands grabbing at her and tearing the flag off. The video caption, in Polish, reads: “the Islamic rape of Europe.”\nSeveral women who are members of La Meute and/or Storm Alliance, including the hairdresser and the restaurateur, were contacted for their perspectives on why they joined these groups. None wished to speak to the Montreal Gazette.\nThe secretary for La Meute, Myriam Voyer, said she was motivated by seeing her rights trampled on by the government. Motion 103 violates her right to freedom of expression, she said, before cutting off the communication. (Motion 103 called on the federal government to condemn Islamophobia and systemic racism and study the phenomena.)\nMyriam Sylvain, one of the organizers of the Irréductibles Québécoises, reached by phone, said she was concerned with the collusion of the Liberal government with Jewish and Islamic religious entities, as well as with multinational companies, the decline of the quality of life in Quebec and rising debt since 1975, Quebecers being treated like a minority in their own land, and Islam, “which brings problems wherever it goes.” (Muslims only make up about three per cent of Quebec’s population.)\n“We have questions and we want answers but just asking the questions people throw stones at us and call us extreme this and that, and racists, in a country that we say is a democracy,” Sylvain said. “I’m just a concerned citizen.”\n***\n“There’s a storm coming that Environment Canada could’t predict.”\nSo says the front page of Storm Alliance’s Facebook site, ahead of the protest at Lacolle and other sites around the country. But whether it’s a storm or a tempest in a teapot remains to be seen.\nOn the one hand, a CROP poll released Sept. 28 said two-thirds of Quebecers were ready to elect an openly anti-immigrant candidate. La Meute, for one, has said it intends to be an influence in the next provincial election in 2018. La Meute members were instrumental in the vote to reject the Muslim cemetery in St-Apollinaire.\nDucol says he doesn’t know whether all of these groups want to become political institutions, but some do.\n“The ultimate goal is the day these groups will have a political platform and run in elections for the National Assembly. That has never happened in Quebec… but the fact that women are part of it will help. For public opinion it all looks more normal than to have 15 guys with shaved heads and tattoos in black T-shirts,” he said.\nOn the other hand, the groups remain fragmented, Campana said, with bitter internal and external feuding. Storm Alliance is the latest version of Soldats d’Odin, and while La Meute calls SA members “friends and allies,” sometimes they are and sometimes they aren’t.\n“They will end up tearing each other apart,” Campana said.\nShe also said that what may seem like 43,000 “members” in the case of La Meute is really only 43,000 Facebook friends – they won’t necessarily show up at your party.\nIndeed, four days before the event, one Storm Alliance member had to announce that the second bus to Lacolle on Saturday had been cancelled. There were not enough people to fill the seats.\ncsolyom@postmedia.com\nTwitter.com/csolyom}}
{{The CEOs of Google and Apple both fell out of favor with employees this year — here’s why, according to a survey of tech workers}}
{{CALGARY, Alberta, July 3 (Reuters) - TransCanada Corp said its 590,000 barrel per day Keystone pipeline was shut down for a short time late on Wednesday morning after communication was interrupted in one of the facilities.\nTransCanada spokesman Shawn Howard said in an email that normal operations have since resumed after an investigation to confirm there were no problems.\nThe Keystone crude pipeline flows from Hardisty, Alberta, to Steele City, Nebraska, before branching off to either Patoka, Illinois, or Cushing, Oklahoma - the delivery point of the U.S. crude oil contract.}}
{{“In my culture, you’re not supposed to name the dead,” she says. “At least not for the first while, or they might not be able to move on. But I had to say something. People had to talk about him, or nothing was going to happen.”\nChelsea Vowel, an Edmonton-based Métis educator and writer, is speaking about the death of 22-year-old Colten Boushie. Throughout the conversation, Chelsea wavers between righteous strength and tearful exhaustion. By the accounts so far, Boushie did not have to die. And yet the young man was laid to rest last week, gunned down in rural Biggar, Sask., after an altercation with farmer Gerald Stanley. Stanley now awaits trial for second-degree murder.\n“They think they know about Indians,” Chelsea says, of non-Indigenous Canada. “They have this belief, that’s taught to them from birth, that everything Native people face is our own choice. Particularly in the Prairies, where there are very high populations.”\nAs Chelsea pours her heart out to me, I’m reminded of Claudia Rankine’s book Citizen: An American Lyric. Facing opposite a purposefully unfinished memoriam to Black men killed by police and white vigilantes, stand these lines:\nbecause white men can’t\npolice their imagination\nblack men are dying\nAccording to the friends who were with Colten, they were returning to the Red Pheasant reserve after an afternoon of swimming when their car tire went flat. They steered onto Stanley’s farm to seek help. Eric Meechance, who was sitting in the back seat of the vehicle with his girlfriend, described a rapid escalation to violence that ended with Colten’s death. “Some guy came and smashed in the front windshield,” he told the Saskatoon StarPhoenix. The frightened driver attempted to escape, but collided with another parked vehicle. Meechance and another of the car’s occupants fled on foot, and gunshots cracked behind him. The two were separated after Meechance ducked into bushes and ran two kilometres along a dirt road before being picked up by police.\nOf those gunshots that split the afternoon sky, at least one of them killed Boushie.\nIn the aftermath of the shooting, the response from white Canada has limned in staggering detail our sins against the Indigenous body, and the ease with which we excuse our violence. First there was the RCMP press release, explaining matter-of-factly that the witnesses to Boushie’s killing—this is right after their friend was shot and killed—were taken into custody “as part of a related theft investigation.” None of the three were charged with any such crime. Then the racial animus began to seep out of the Facebook page for the Saskatchewan Farmers Group, with comments like “F–king indian,” and “He should have shot all 5 of them and given a medal.” Ben Kautz, a councillor for the Rural Municipality of Browning, Sask., had this to say: “In my mind his only mistake was leaving witnesses.”\nDays later, CBC Saskatchewan published an article claiming that the social media debate in the wake of Boushie’s death was over the “right to defend.” In that piece, CBC interviewed a criminal defence lawyer who detailed the legal means by which killing an intruder on one’s property might be permitted. “Are these people known to them, or not known to them? Is there a history of violence between them or no history at all? Do the people appear armed or not armed?”\n“When there doesn’t appear to be any reasonable alternative, lethal force is no doubt permitted.”\nEnough people seemed to agree with the sentiment that a crowdfunding drive in the name of Stanley’s wife drew over $11,000 in donations before it was taken down by GoFundMe. Regular people, who probably consider themselves tolerant and enlightened individuals, opened their wallets to support a man who, purportedly, shot and killed an Indigenous youth.\nAt Stanley’s bail hearing in North Battleford, Indigenous groups and allied activists took to the streets in a demonstration of solidarity with Boushie’s family. Multiple witnesses, including Métis artist and author Christi Belcourt, snapped pictures of RCMP officers standing sentinel on rooftops surrounding the demonstration. According to Belcourt, officers were visibly armed, taking down their rifles as the crowd began turning cellphone cameras in their direction. Stanley, by the way, was granted bail. A privilege that too many Indigenous people have themselves been denied for far lesser crimes.\nThis past weekend, during the Tragically Hip’s last concert, beloved singer Gord Downie re-asserted Canada’s obligations to Indigenous peoples for Prime Minister Justin Trudeau: “He’s going to take us where we need to go. He cares about the people way up North, that we were trained our entire lives to ignore.”\nTo wit, Trudeau himself once declared: “It is time for a renewed, nation-to-nation relationship with First Nations peoples.” In addition to launching a public inquiry into the thousands of missing and murdered Indigenous women, Trudeau also promised to implement all 94 recommendations from the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. The TRC (which should be required reading for every Canadian who claims to understand our history) is a broad document that outlines the damage done not only by the horrific legacy of residential schools, but by Canada’s turning a blind eye to what we have wrought on Indigenous communities through purposeful neglect and wanton violation of our promises.\nThose calls to action, even if fully acted upon by the federal government, ring hollow when Canadians, who think they know about Indians, misunderstand who and what they have been trained to ignore. The people who flooded the Saskatchewan Farmers Group with hateful comments, those who gave from their own accounts in Stanley’s name, the media who question where to draw the line between property rights and dead Indians, the councillor who regretted that Stanley failed to execute all of the passengers in that vehicle, and possibly Gerald Stanley himself—all bear the stain of Colten Boushie’s blood.\nAs do I, kidnapped body living on stolen land that I am.\nAs do you.\nBecause we cannot police our imagination,\nColten Boushie is dead.}}
{{Retail expert Brynn Winegard said how Staples' co-working space will fare is hard to predict because those prone to using co-working spaces are just outside of the company's core demographic.\n"A lot of the millennials, we call them 'digital natives,' never really wrote with pen and paper. They are more technology driven," she said. "Some of the stationary components and nondigital products Staples has would attract a different demographic than the people using these working spaces."\nShe suspected this is why Staples is testing the offering at a few locations and not rolling it out on a wide scale just yet.\nShe said the changes Staples is making are in-line with plenty of other big-box retailers that own many large stores and recognize that they can repurpose their spaces for other things to drive more traffic.\n"Those big centres have to be very profitable so you can justify keeping them," she said. "There is the imperative and need for organizations to create a reason beyond shopping to go in the store."\nStarbucks, she said, was among the first to clue into benefits of offering shoppers more than an opportunity to scoop up products. After it launched free WiFi, she said others followed suit. Then Holt Renfrew added a cafeteria, café and restaurant. Walmart, she said, has gotten into the action too, dabbling with optical, photo and dry-cleaning services.\n"People will say I am here to pick up my glasses prescriptions, I might as well pick up some stuff at the Walmart," she said.\n"Very similarly at Staples, you can see this would be a very intelligent move if people say I am here for a meeting or to collaborate with my peers at this co-working space, so I might as well go pick up some dry erase markers."}}
{{BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. — SundanceTV and the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. are making a miniseries about Canada's 1980s tainted-blood scandal.\nThe eight-part series, titled "Unspeakable," follows the emergence of HIV and hepatitis C in Canada and the thousands of infections caused by contaminated blood.\nThe TV project announced Saturday is based on two books, "Bad Blood" by Vic Parsons and "The Gift of Death" by Andre Picard.\nConsidered one of the largest preventable medical disasters in Canadian history, the contamination prompted a federal inquiry and billions of dollars in claims.\nExecutive producer Robert C. Cooper said in a statement that he was both thrilled and daunted to tell a story that affected so many. SundanceTV and CBC's announcement said the miniseries is a passion project for Cooper because he was among the victims, having contracted hepatitis C from tainted blood.}}
{{Manitoba’s premier, Brian Pallister, has failed to reassess the value of his tropical vacation home for the past decade, contravening Costa Rican property tax rules and adding more questions as to whether he owes unpaid taxes to the government.\nA Santa Cruz, Guanacaste, Costa Rica, municipal official — the municipality where Pallister’s vacation home is located — said that Pallister’s property has not submitted the required property declaration form at the municipal level since it was built in 2008.\nIt takes time to go through [the Costa Rican government’s] process.\n– Premier Brian Pallister\n“Every five years they should update it … it should have been [updated in] 2013,” Ramon Guevara, who is in charge of the Santa Cruz Department of Housing, said in an interview with CBC News. The Canadian news media said Pallister has denied a request for an interview, but his director of communications says he is willing to pay any tax he is found to owe the government.\nStarting in 2009, Costa Rica has an additional tax on “luxury” homes valued at more than ¢100 million colones (US$180,000 dollars) planning to put the money toward housing for low-income Costa Ricans. In 2018, any home worth over ¢129 million colones must pay the tax, at a sliding scale based on the assessed construction value of the home.\nValverde said because Pallister’s home is recorded as over the ¢100 million colones.\nRead the complete story at CBC News.}}
{{While the bilateral relationship between India and Canada has taken a knock in recent months, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s call to his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi on Monday is being seen as an overture to overcome the recent rift that has developed between the two nations.\nThe prime ministers had a cordial conversation, indicating an effort to restore the upswing in ties that was evident even earlier this year.\nA statement issued by the Indian Prime Minister’s Office said, “He appreciated the steady all round progress in diverse areas of bilateral engagement with Canada. Both leaders agreed to continue communication and cooperation to promote stronger ties.”\nSignificantly the call was initiated by Trudeau. The conversation appears to have focused on the Paris climate treaty, as the statement noted: “Both leaders exchanged views on developments of mutual interest, specifically climate change. Prime Minister Modi reaffirmed India’s commitment to take forward implementation of the Paris Agreement.”\nModi also congratulated Trudeau on the 150th anniversary of the Canadian Confederation.\nWhile as many as eight Canadian cabinet Ministers visited India over the past 10 months, the last of those came in April, that of Canada’s minister of national defence Harjit Sajjan. However, that trip was mired in controversy.\nA series of events have also irritated New Delhi. Those include a private members’ motion passed in the assembly of the province of Ontario which termed the 1984 anti-Sikh riots as “genocide”. Soon after that, Trudeau himself appeared at a Khalsa Day nagar kirtan in Toronto at which the motion’s mover Harinder Malhi was honoured while the parade at the event featured Khalistani flags and separatist floats.\nThe Indian government has been irate over a resurgence in the Khalistani movement in Canada, which, it considers to be partly due to the Liberal Party (led by Trudeau) playing to hardline groups and gurdwaras that act as gatekeepers of the community, as officials have complained.\nNew Delhi has found that particularly troublesome since it had initiated multiple measures, including backchannel talks, to wean away a section of Indo-Canadians from the movement.\nMeanwhile, both prime ministers are expected to be at the Hamburg G20 summit in July but there appears to have been no move, as yet, for them to meet on the margins of that global event. Trudeau’s much-anticipated visit to India too has been delayed several times and is now expected either at the end of this year or in early 2018.\nWhile plenty of frost has formed in the relationship in recent months, the call from Trudeau could possibly be an overture meant at getting some warmth back between Ottawa and New Delhi.}}
{{TORONTO, July 25 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index opened lower on Thursday as earnings reports from some of the country's bellwether companies, including Potash Corp and Goldcorp Inc, disappointed investors. The Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index was down 23.20 points, or 0.18 percent, at 12,649.10 shortly after the open.}}
{{The City of Vancouver says it's looking at options to move and renovate a historic building that once housed the RCMP headquarters, but there are no guarantees it will be able to do so.\nEarlier this month, Vancouver approved an ambitious redevelopment of the 8.5-hectare parcel of land in the Cambie corridor that will see mixed-income housing, a cultural centre and dozens of daycare spaces.\nOne of the buildings on the site is a large Tudor Revival style structure that was built in 1914 and designed by Vancouver architect Samuel Maclure. It is listed on the Vancouver Heritage Registry.\nBefore it housed the RCMP, it was a boy's school, known as Fairmont Academy.\nBut the city says the building will be torn down if a new site for the structure can't be found.\n"If a receiver site and use cannot be identified within the three-to-five-year time frame, then the building would be demolished," said a release from the city.\nMore than 400 affordable housing units are planned for the prime piece of real estate known as the Heather Lands, which is good news for a city in the grips of a housing crisis.\nAltogether, the redevelopment will see 2,000 new homes, with plans to have condo towers in the middle of the site, and mid-rise buildings and town homes surrounding them. Plans also call for 1.6-hectares of green space.\nAt least 50 per cent of the social housing units to be built on the Heather Lands will be for families with children. (Canada Land Corporation)\nThe land is jointly owned by a consortium of First Nations and the Canada Lands Company.\nLocal First Nations say the building evokes negative feelings because it rekindles memories of the RCMP's role in the unjust treatment of Indigenous people.\nAs as result, the consortium wants the Fairmont building off the Heather Street Lands, and has asked the City of Vancouver to move it elsewhere.\nThat's a big concern for Heritage Vancouver, which recently put the historic building on its recent Top 10 most endangered list.\n"We would like a process where all owners and stakeholders come together and have a conversation about what should happen," said Bill Yeun, the executive director of Heritage Vancouver.\nThe city is aware of the building's heritage status and says if the building is moved, it would work toward maintaining requirements to meet those standards. This would retain and secure protection of the building.\n"Relocation of a building of this size and identifying a suitable use will be challenging, but we will be exploring all options toward retaining the building," said the city statement.\nWork will soon begin on rezoning the land, with construction beginning as early as 2020.}}
{{WASHINGTON – The world’s virgin forests are being lost at an increasing rate and the largest portion of the degradation is in Canada, according to a new report.\nNo longer is Brazil the main villain in the struggle to stop forest destruction.\n“Canada is the number one in the world for the total area of the loss of intact forest landscapes since 2000,” Peter Lee, of Forest Watch Canada, said in an interview.\nHe said the main drivers are fires, logging and energy and industrial development.\n“There is no political will at federal or provincial levels for conserving primary forests,” he said. “Most logging done in Canada is still to this day done in virgin forests.”\nUsing satellite technology, scientists from the University of Maryland, Greenpeace, Global Forest Watch and the World Resources Institute have tracked changes in the earth’s forest coverage. The scientists discovered that the pace of decline is accelerating with more than 104 million hectares – about 8.1 per cent of global undisturbed forests — lost from 2000 to 2013.\nIf this rate of degradation continues, “business as usual will lead to destruction of most remaining intact forests this century,” Dr. Nigel Sizer, director of the forest program at the World Resources Institute, said.\nComputer graphics (www.globalforestwatch.org) based on satellite imagery show huge degradation of Canada’s boreal forest from the Maritimes to Alberta with little compensatory gain. The boreal forests of Quebec, Ontario, Saskatchewan and Alberta appear to have been hit particularly hard by wild fires and resource exploitation.\nThe imagery shows the boreal forest in the area of the oil sands between Fort McMurray and Lake Athabasca has been almost totally devastated. Parks such as Alberta’s Wood Buffalo, Ontario’s Algonquin Park and the Assinica nature reserve in Quebec have not been spared.\nThe northern boreal forest belt that runs primarily through Canada and Russia plus Brazil’s Amazon represent 65 per cent of the world’s remaining virgin forest. Some 47 per cent of the global degradation has occurred in the boreal forest and 25 per cent in the Amazon, the report states.\n“These last forest frontiers play a critical role in sustaining rich biodiversity, maintaining climate and weather stability as well as air and water quality, and supporting the livelihoods of forest-dependent communities,” the report states.\nFires have historically been a natural source of regeneration in the boreal forest. But Lee blames climate change for the recent increase, pace and intensity of forest fires in Canada.\n“Independent data verifies this massive increase in forest fires,” he said.\nThe increase in temperatures in the north is much higher than the global average, he noted. “You are getting these huge fires which are truly degrading and no longer a part, in many cases, of the natural historic functioning of fires in boreal forests,” he said. “They are now transforming many of these northern boreal forests into shrub lands.”\nScientists have predicted that warmer temperatures will move the tree line north. “But due to the increase in fires the tree line may actually be moving south,” Lee said\nThe report notes that the continued decline of virgin forests “intensifies climate change through greenhouse gas emissions and loss of valuable forest carbon stores and sinks.”\nwmarsden@postmedia.com}}
{{FILE - In this Sept. 26, 2018, file photo, visitors look at a display for 5G wireless technology from Chinese technology firm Huawei at the PT Expo in Beijing. While a Huawei executive faces possible U.S. charges over trade with Iran, the Chinese tech giant's ambition to be a leader in next-generation telecoms is colliding with security worries abroad. Mark Schiefelbein, File AP Photo}}
{{(Reuters) - Eight meat and livestock groups from the United States and Canada have asked a court to strike down stricter U.S. meat labeling rules that they say have hurt U.S. processors and Canadian farmers, arguing that they violate the U.S. Constitution.\nThe suit, filed late on Monday, seeks to undo recent revisions to four-year-old rules that required retail outlets to label meat according to where it came from.\nThe country of origin labeling rules, known as COOL, have led to lower U.S. imports of Canadian cattle and pigs, which has hurt Canadian farmers and the U.S. processing plants that relied on imported livestock. The rules are an effort to give U.S. consumers more information about the safety and origin of their food and some farm groups, particularly R-CALF USA, support them.\nThe World Trade Organization ordered the United States to comply with WTO rules by May 23, but the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) made revisions to COOL that Canada and Mexico said would only make the situation worse.\nOne example is the rules no longer allow co-mingling of most muscle cuts from livestock in different countries within the same package, which creates added cost to U.S. feedlots and processors to segregate animals, said Mark Dopp, senior vice-president of regulatory affairs at the American Meat Institute (AMI).\n“When weighed against significant costs, we think this rule doesn’t make any sense,” Dopp said on Tuesday.\nThe U.S. rule revisions, which took effect May 23, violate the U.S. Constitution by compelling speech in the form of the labels that does not directly advance a government interest, the meat industry groups said, adding that the rules also impose burdens on the industry with little or no benefit.\nThe U.S. Department of Agriculture was not immediately available for comment.\nLast month, Canada said it would ask the WTO to approve its proposed retaliatory measures against the U.S., including tariffs on U.S. products meat, cherries, rice and other products. Mexico said it was considering suspending preferential trade tariffs with the United States over the dispute.\nAlong with AMI, the other industry groups behind the court action are the American Association of Meat Processors, Canadian Cattlemen’s Association, Canadian Pork Council, National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, National Pork Producers Council, North American Meat Association, and Southwest Meat Association.\nThe case is American Meat Institute et al v. United States Department of Agriculture et al, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia, No. 13-1033.}}
{{You do have to wonder about the political savvy of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his government. The furious fallout from China over the arrest of a senior telecoms executive is going to do severe damage to Canadian national interests.Trudeau's fawning over American demands is already rebounding very badly for Canada's economy and its international image.The Canadian arrest - on behalf of Washington - of Meng Wanzhou, chief financial officer of Chinese telecom giant Huawei, seems a blatant case of the Americans acting politically and vindictively. If the Americans are seen to be acting like bandits, then the Canadians are their flunkies.Wanzhou was detained on December 1 by Canadian federal police as she was boarding a commercial airliner in Vancouver. She was reportedly handcuffed and led away in a humiliating manner which has shocked the Chinese government, media and public.The business executive has since been released on a $7.4 million bail bond, pending further legal proceedings. She is effectively being kept under house arrest in Canada with electronic ankle tagging.To add insult to injury, it isThe US authorities have claimed that she is guilty of breaching American sanctions against Iran by conducting telecoms business with Tehran. It is presumed that the Canadians arrested Wanzhou at the request of the Americans. But so far a US extradition warrant has not been filed. That could take months. In the meantime, the Chinese businesswoman will be living under curfew, her freedom denied.Canadian legal expert Christopher Black says there is no juridical case for Wanzhou's detention.It is simply the Americans applying their questionable national laws on a third party. Black contends that Canada has therefore no obligation whatsoever to impose those US laws regarding Iran in its territory, especially given that Ottawa and Beijing have their own separate bilateral diplomatic relations.In any case, what the real issue is about is the Americans using legal mechanisms to intimidate and beat up commercial rivals. For months now,US claims about China using telecoms for "spying" and "infiltrating" American national security are bogus propaganda ruses to undermine these commercial rivals through foul means.It also seems clear from US President Donald Trump's unsubtle comments this week to Reuters, saying he would "personally intervene" in the Meng case "if it helped trade talks with China", that the. It was a tacit admission by Trump that the Americans really don't have a legal case against her.Canada's foreign minister Chrystia Freeland bounced into damage limitation mode following Trump's thuggish comments. She said that the case should not be "politicized" and that the legal proceedings should not be tampered with. How ironic is that?The whole affair has been politicized from the very beginning. Meng's arrest, or as Christopher Black calls it "hostage-taking", is driven by Washington's agenda of harassment against China for commercial reasons, under a legal pretext purportedly about Iranian sanctions.When Trump revealed the cynical expediency of him "helping to free Wanzhou", then the Canadians realized they were also being exposed for the flunkies that they are for American banditry. That's why Freeland was obliged to quickly adopt the fastidious pretense of legal probity.Canadian premier Justin Trudeau has claimed that he wasn't aware of the American request for Wanzhou's detention. Trudeau is being pseudo. For such a high-profile infringement against a senior Chinese business leader, Ottawa must have been fully briefed by the Americans. Christopher Black, the legal expert, believes thatWhat Trudeau and his government intended to get out of performing this sordid role for American thuggery is far from clear. Maybe after being verbally mauled by Trump as "weak and dishonest" at the G7 summit earlier this year, in June, Trudeau decided it was best to roll over and be a good little puppy for the Americans in their dirty deed against China.But already it has since emerged that Canada is going to pay a very heavy price indeed for such dubious service to Washington. Beijing has warned that it will take retaliation against both Washington and Ottawa. And it is Ottawa that is more vulnerable to severe repercussions.This week saw two Canadian citizens, one a former diplomat, detained in China on spying charges.Canadian business analysts are also warning that Beijing can inflict harsh economic penalties on Ottawa.And if Trudeau's government caves in to the excruciating economic pressure brought to bear by Beijing and then abides by China's demand to immediately release Meng Wanzhou, Ottawa will look like a pathetic, gutless lackey to Washington. Canada's reputation of being a liberal, independent state will be shredded. Even then the Chinese are unlikely to forget Trudeau's treachery.With comic irony, there's a cringemaking personal dimension to this unseemly saga.During the 1970s when Trudeau's mother Margaret was a thirty-something socialite heading for divorce from his father, then Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, she was often in the gossip media for indiscretions at nightclubs. Rolling Stones guitarist Keith Richards claims in his autobiography that Margaret Trudeau was a groupie for the band, having flings with Mick Jagger and Ronnie Wood. Her racy escapades and louche lifestyle brought shame to many Canadians.Poor Margaret Trudeau later wound up divorced, disgraced, financially broke and scraping a living from scribbling tell-all books.Justin, her eldest son, is finding out that being a groupie for Washington's banditry is also bringing disrepute for him and his country.}}
{{TORONTO, July 3 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index slipped in early Wednesday trade as sluggish economic data out of China and concerns about a debt crisis in Portugal caused declines in most major sectors, offsetting a jump in shares of gold miners. The Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index was down 25.13 points, or 0.21 percent, at 12,153.25 shortly after the open.}}
{{TORONTO, July 9 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index rose on Tuesday as rising commodities prices lifted shares of energy and mining companies, offsetting a decline in Alimentation Couche-Tard after the retailer reported quarterly results. The Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index unofficially closed up 88.22 points, or 0.72 percent, at 12,297.09. Five of the 10 main sectors on the index were higher.}}
{{ADVERTISEMENT\nTORONTO — The makers of Canada's latest Heritage Minute say featuring the country's acceptance of Vietnamese "boat people" in the short film was the ideal way to keep current events in perspective and usher in a landmark national birthday.\nThe short clip, now among others highlighting key moments in Canadian History, was released by Historica Canada on Tuesday and shines a light on Canada's admission of more than 100,000 refugees fleeing war-torn Vietnam in the 1970s.\nCrafted with the aid of neuroscience research and cast with "boat people'' or their descendants, the video tells the story of a family jumping off a sinking vessel and being warmly welcomed as they begin a new life in Montreal.\nVietnamese men who arrived with a wave of "boat people" wait inside an immigration center in Montreal in this undated photo, wearing warm clothing for the cold Canadian winter weather. (Photo by Owen Franken/Corbis via Getty Images)\nHistorica Canada President Anthony Wilson-Smith says the clip encapsulates a period and a project that helped shape Canada.\nHe says the country is a more diverse place than it was when it celebrated its centenary in 1967, adding the Heritage Minute acknowledges that increased diversity in the leadup to celebrations of Canada's 150th birthday.\nHe says the video also serves as a reminder of the value of welcoming refugees at a time when those fleeing violence in Syria look to Canada for aid and support.\nThe arrival of the Vietnamese "boat people" took place against a different cultural backdrop and exemplified Canada's approach to welcoming newcomers, he said.\n"We were a different kind of country then. We were less diverse than we are now," Wilson-Smith said in a telephone interview. "It was actually quite remarkable ... given the context of the times, how welcoming people were, and what an advantage it's turned out to be to have them all."\n"It was actually quite remarkable ... given the context of the times, how welcoming people were, and what an advantage it's turned out to be to have them all."\nCanada's history of welcoming immigrants spans most of its existence as a country, but its particular connection to refugees began nearly a decade after centennial celebrations came to a close.\nThe federal government tabled a new Immigration Act in 1976 which, for the first time, recognized refugees as a special class of immigrants. It created a refugee determination system, provided for admission on humanitarian grounds of designated classes of people and enabled the private sponsorship of refugees.\nBy mid-1979, the plight of Southeast Asian "boat people" fleeing Vietnam, which had fallen to communist control years before, had become a crisis driving hundreds of thousands of people from their homes. Many escaped in rickety fishing boats that became cesspools of illness and were easy prey for both pirates and the elements.\nThat June, the Canadian government announced that 50,000 of those refugees would be resettled by the end of 1980. Historica said thousands more made it to Canada safely as a result of a successful private sponsorship effort dubbed Project Lifeline.\nThe Duc sisters; Caroline; 8; Justine; 11; and Christine; 13; take swimming lessons at Lord Dufferin School in this undated photo. They spent seven days in a refugee boat and the family survived intact to start life again in Toronto. (Photo by Keith Beaty/Toronto Star via Getty Images)\nThe Heritage Minute tells the story of a typical family and depicts their terrified leap from a crowded, sinking boat into the ocean.\nIt tracks their progress through a Malaysian refugee camp where the family shows anxiety as they're interrogated by a visa officer. After considering their responses, the officer pauses before declaring "welcome to Canada'' and clearing their way for arrival in Montreal, where scenes depict one of the newly arrived children being given a piece of Canadiana by one of her new peers.\nWilson-Smith said Historica turned to science when crafting the latest Heritage Minute, which will be one of two exploring immigration themes in 2017.\nBrainsights, a company that analyses the way the brain responds to various forms of communication, screened two versions of the video to more than 600 people over several months.\n"How can we contribute in our limited way, in Canada, to improve that education and improve that shared understanding?"\nThe company measured viewers' brainwaves at two-millisecond intervals as they watched, and was able to develop quantitative measures of how effectively scenes were grabbing someone's attention and forming an emotional connection.\nBrainsights Co-Founder Kevin Keane said current events drove his eagerness to partner with Historica and make sure the video's message was communicated as effectively as possible.\n"The impetus to partner with them became stronger because we started seeing and worrying about broader macroeconomic developments — Brexit, the election of (U.S. President Donald) Trump," he said.\n"We started asking ourselves, 'if people had a greater understanding of history, would these things happen? How can we contribute in our limited way, in Canada, to improve that education and improve that shared understanding?"\nKeane said data from the viewings prompted Brainsights to recommend some tweaks to the finished clip, including adding a slight pause before the central "welcome to Canada'' message for added impact.\nAuthenticity matters\nWilson-Smith said Historica also tried to make the minute as authentic as possible by consulting people who worked as visa officers in refugee camps and casting only boat people or their children in the finished product.\nHe said it was important to accurately document a moment that helped shift Canada in a more multicultural direction.\n"One of the great differences between Canada at 100 years in 1967 and Canada now is the diversity of the country," he said. "The Heritage Minute) is about people who came here who have made great contributions since, but it's also about the welcoming attitude and atmosphere of the country."}}
{{HAMILTON — Looking at Canada's junior team roster there are no budding superstars like Connor McDavid or Mitch Marner. But there is a simple philosophy: take time and space away from your opponent and then you can take the puck too.\nHead coach Dominique Ducharme and Hockey Canada executives Shawn Bullock and Joel Bouchard have built a team that is fast, very deep, and balanced heading into a competitive world junior championship in Buffalo, N.Y.\n"Our goal when we lose the puck is to retrieve it as quick as possible," said Ducharme on Friday. "We want to make sure we're stepping in front of guys to retrieve it, separating them from the puck."\nOnly one player on the team — stalwart defenceman Cale Makar — was taken with a top-10 pick in an NHL draft. The Colorado Avalanche selected him fourth overall this past summer. The next highest pick on the team was forward Michael McLeod, who the New Jersey Devils chose 12th overall in 2016. Most of the team are second round picks or lower.\nBut the roster does include Ontario Hockey League points leader Jordan Kyrou — a second-round pick of the St. Louis Blues in 2016 — and Sam Steel, last season's Western Hockey League player of the year, who the Anaheim Ducks selected 30th overall in 2016. Taylor Raddysh (second round in 2016, Tampa Bay) and Robert Thomas (20th overall in 2017, St. Louis) have also shown flashes of brilliance together in exhibition games.\n"I think we have a full four lines, 13 guys that can contribute," said Dillon Dube, a 2016 second round pick of the Calgary Flames, who had two goals and an assist on a line with Kyrou and Steel in Friday's 8-1 win over Switzerland. "It's going to be good. Obviously, it showed tonight that every single line can score."\nDube, Raddysh and McLeod are part of a core of seven players returning from last year's silver-medal team. Defencemen Jake Bean, Kale Clague and Dante Fabbro as well as goaltender Carter Hart are also returning. Ducharme sees those seven veterans as an invaluable asset that may give Canada the edge it needs.\n"Anyone that went through the tournament, they know what to expect. You can't buy experience," said Ducharme. "That's mileage and I think it's good for them personally to be able to use that and bring their game to another level, but also useful for every other player on the team to be beside those guys that have been through the tournament."\nVictor Mete, who was loaned to Hockey Canada for the world juniors by the Montreal Canadiens, joins that seasoned blue line, making depth at defence arguably Canada's greatest strength. Conor Timmins, Cal Foote and Josh Mahura, who was recalled to the team as a substitute while Fabbro recovers from a lower-body contusion, round out the defence.\n"We're a defence-focused team this year," said backup goaltender Colton Point, who only faced four shots over 40 minutes of play against Switzerland. "I think we're proving that right now with our shutdown D. They blocked probably more shots than I stopped today.}}
{{LAC-MEGANTIC, Quebec, July 9 (Reuters) - Shipments of crude oil along the rail route disrupted by the Quebec train derailment could be out of service for “a while”, an official with Canada’s Transportation Safety Board said on Tuesday.\nMontreal, Maine & Atlantic Railway’s line that carries oil from Montreal through Maine destined for Irving Oil’s St. John, New Brunswick refinery has been shut since a crude train derailed in Lac-Megantic early Saturday.\nAbout 50 people are either confirmed dead, or are still missing, likely turning the accident into North America’s worst rail disaster since 1989.\nTransportation Safety Board lead investigator Don Ross said in a press conference the line would be out of service for “a while, until this gets cleared up.”\n“Those services from Montreal through this area, Quebec, to the neighbouring states is affected until we get it up and running,” he told reporters.\nThe MMA train had been carrying crude from North Dakota to the 300,000 barrel per day (bpd) Irving Oil refinery. Officials from Maine’s Department of Transportation said on Monday they had no plans to halt shipments of oil by rail through the state despite the Lac-Megantic disaster.\nThe MMA line carried more than 15,600 barrels per day (bpd) of crude through Maine in March, according to state data. A separate line owned by Pan Am Railways, took just over 12,400 bpd during that month.\nCrude oil continues to flow through Maine to New Brunswick from points south along the railroad tracks owned by Pan Am Railways, which last year railed about 6,300 bpd of crude through the state.\nPan Am’s line enters southwestern Maine in Berwick then runs northeastward through Portland and Waterville to Mattawamkeag, where deliveries are handed off to Maine, Montreal and Atlantic’s line before crossing into New Brunswick, Canada.\n“It’s a tragedy, and we’ve reached out to MMA and offered to do whatever we can to help them,” Pan Am vice president Cynthia Scarano told Reuters.\n“But there’s been no interruption in our service,” she said. (Reporting by Richard Valdmanis, additional reporting by Dave Sherwood in Bowdoinham, Maine; Editing by Bernard Orr)}}
{{* TSX rises 8 points, or 0.06 percent, to 12,680.30 * Six of the 10 main index sectors decline * Potash Corp the biggest negative influence on index * Teck rises after quarterly report By John Tilak TORONTO, July 25 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index was little changed on Thursday as gains in Teck Resources Ltd and stronger commodity prices helped offset disappointing quarterly reports from Potash Corp and Goldcorp Inc. The gains in the price of bullion and other commodities came as the market digested data that showed planned U.S. business spending rose for a third straight month in June, offering a hopeful sign for a pickup in economic growth. Many earnings reports were "awful," said Colin Cieszynski, senior market analyst at CMC Markets Canada. "It looks like just about everybody missed." "But it looks as though commodity prices are holding up some of the stocks," he added. The Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index was up 8 points, or 0.06 percent, at 12,680.30. Six of the 10 main sectors on the index were in the red. Financials, the index's most heavily weighted sector, were up 0.2 percent. The materials sector, which includes mining stocks, slipped 0.3 percent, with a jump in gold miners overshadowed by declines in Potash Corp. Potash fell 4 percent to C$37.59, playing the biggest role of any single stock in weighing the index down. The world's biggest fertilizer producer reported a lower-than-expected quarterly profit and cut its outlook as prices for its crop nutrients fell. Goldcorp was down 0.9 percent at C$28.99. The world's largest gold miner by market capitalization posted a second-quarter loss as a sharp drop in the gold price cut into profits and the company recorded a $2 billion non-cash impairment charge. But shares of rival Barrick Gold Corp climbed 1.9 percent to C$18.02 and had the biggest positive influence on the market. Teck was also a big source of support, rising 2.7 percent to C$24.33. The miner reported a drop in second-quarter earnings on lower copper and coal prices. But it also cut its capital spending plan through 2014, delaying new mining projects, a move seen helping it preserve cash. Shares of energy producers climbed 0.3 percent, with sector giants Suncor Energy Inc and Canadian Natural Resources Ltd making gains. Husky Energy Inc rose 1.4 percent to C$29.98 after Canada's No. 3 integrated oil company reported a stronger-than-expected quarterly profit as production rose and the company realized higher prices.}}
{{TORONTO, July 17 (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar firmed to a session high against the U.S. dollar on Wednesday after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said the central bank still expects bond tapering would begin later year, but left open the option of changing that plan.\nThe Canadian dollar firmed to C$1.0361 versus the U.S. dollar, or 96.52 U.S. cents, stronger than immediately before the comments were released and slightly firmer than Tuesday’s North American close at C$1.0366, or 96.47 U.S. cents.}}
{{Mathilde Gordon and Lucy Graham sit with their kayaks on the public breakwater dock. The two kayakers are midway through a trip from Glacier Bay to Vancouver Island. (Matthew Allen / The Northern View)\nA pair of Australian adventurers have been kayaking along the west coast to raise money and awareness about ocean debris.\nLucy Graham, a community organizer, and Mathilde Gordon, a field officer in land management and conservation, are both passionate about the environment and the outdoors. They met while attending university together in Australia and have given numerous talks on ocean pollution together.\nLast year, the two decided to go on the kayaking trip, but wanted to do it for the cause they were both so passionate about. They fund-raised and secured sponsors who believed in the work they were doing, and in May, flew to Alaska where they began their journey. The pair set off from Glacier Bay on May 8 and have paddled their way south along the coast for the past 42 days before arriving at Prince Rupert’s break water dock on June 16.\nREAD MORE: Kayaking down the Skeena during the eulachon run\nAlong the way, the pair have been GPS-tagging any garbage they find floating and uploading it to a website chronicling their journey. They have seen and logged hundreds of items ranging from plastic sports drink bottles to fishing lines, ghost nets and buoys. They have also participated in beach cleanups and given talks in the towns where they’ve stayed along the way.\nThey will continue their journey along the coast until they reach Vancouver Island at the end of the summer.\nThe pair hopes the data they gather can be used to help people understand the way their consumption contributes to the problem of ocean pollution and the impact it has on the coastline ecosystem. In addition to all the rubbish they have logged, Graham said they have tracked the wildlife they have seen. This includes 12 grizzly bears, 50 humpback whale breaches and dozens of bald eagles, all of whom are impacted in some way by items floating off the water.\nREAD MORE: Kayaking to daffodils on Dodge Cove\n“We’re just trying to start a conversation about it,” said Gordon, “I think a lot of people think it’s not their problem, but everyone contributes to it in some way.”\nGordon and Graham are also raising money that will go to organizations that run beach cleanups. So far they have raised $14,000 out of a $20,000 goal.\nIn addition to gathering data and raising awareness, both women said they also want to be an example to other young women by going on adventures and taking action about issues they are passionate about.\n“People say we’re crazy or brave, but I wish it was more normal for people to do what we’re doing,” said Graham. “We’re passionate about what we do, we want to make a difference and so we’re doing it.”\nTo follow Graham and Gordon on their journey visit: https://passageadventures.org/\nmatthew.allen@thenorthernview.com\nLike us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter}}
{{We do love our beer, don’t we. And not just any old beer. We love “craft” beer, lovingly produced by young entrepreneurs in small breweries using fine Alberta barley and B.C. hops. A few weeks ago I did a whistle-stop tour of Troubled Monk (Red Deer), Blindman (Lacombe) and Siding 14 (Ponoka) breweries, some of the fresher breweries to pop up in central Alberta. And there are more bubbling up all the time. (They are a boon to small-town industrial zones.) The Alberta Small Brewers Association currently has 30 member breweries on board with more likely to join soon.\nBut if a trip into the Alberta hinterlands is not in your books, a visit to Craft Beer Market may be easier. The new location in Southcentre Mall has about 120 beers on tap, half of which hail from Alberta. An additional 20 per cent come from B.C. and Ontario and the balance is drawn from American and European breweries.\nThe new, almost 400-seat Craft in Southcentre is the fifth in the group that includes the original (2011) on 10th Avenue, plus three more in Edmonton, Vancouver and Ottawa. A sixth is slated to open soon in Toronto and a seventh next year in Kelowna with hopes to have 10 by the end of the decade. Craft partners — and lifelong friends — P.J. L’Hereux, John Liwag and Rob Swiderski are in an expansion mode. They also have partnerships in various forms in Home & Away, Trolley Five, St. James Corner, Commonwealth and the two Jamesons Pubs.\nCraft Beer Markets adhere to certain standards: all sustainable products, including the beer; support for local producers; foods made in-house as much as possible (that includes all bread and much pasta); Oceanwise seafood; sustainable energy (it’s Bullfrog powered); and decent gluten-free and vegetarian options. And they take their food seriously. The kitchens are overseen by corporate chef Alym Hirji and regional chef Joel Copeland. Moving over from 10th Avenue to run the 50-cook kitchen at Southcentre is executive chef Dave Phillips. And running the whole Southcentre operation is general manager Adam Snelling. (Snelling also came over from the 10th Avenue location.)\nThe Craft team calls the food “New North American Classics” that show a wide range of influences. For example, there is beer can chicken sliders, Maui ribs, fish tacos, kale Caesar, Tuscan veggie flatbread, beer-braised brisket and, of course, many renditions of burgers and wings. There are also butternut squash ravioli, butterscotch budino, weekend brunch options and a Half Pints menu for those 12 and under. Kids get their own brunch menu, too.\nAt Southcentre, the kitchen resides in the upstairs mezzanine area, totally open to the tables around it. Seating is both up and down — there’s an elevator as well as stairs — with a huge oblong bar consuming much of the main floor. (The 132 taps take up a lot of room.) The decor is very woody and beer-focused — decorated beer kegs form much of the decor — with a mix of low and high tables, bar seats, booths and private dining areas. Craft has taken advantage of its south-facing space to install a couple of large garage-style doors that open to the outside and a parking lot-facing patio.\nThe beer lines flow through large, overhead, stainless steel pipes from the refrigerated tap room. There are 120 reserved for beer with the balance given over to sodas, kombucha and wine. Craft has a comparatively small wine list — eight by the hose-delivered glass, 16 more by the bottle.\nCraft Beer Market, in spite of its name, is a family restaurant with no age restrictions. It takes reservations and will do corkage on request. Corkage is for wine only. If you can’t find a beer you like here, it’s not their fault.\nOne much smaller but extremely popular food outlet opened in Southcentre recently. Mr. Pretzels is a rapidly expanding franchise out of Puerto Rico, which currently has over 200 outlets in 18 countries. Natalie Zohar picked up the Alberta franchise last year and has opened two already in Calgary with four more opening shortly in the city and Edmonton.\nThe concept is simple: Fresh, soft pretzels, warm from the oven are flavoured with 12 sweet or savoury toppings — $3.75 each, maybe a pop to go with it. Maybe even a warm pretzel wrapped around a wiener ($4.20), making a pretzel dog. The pretzel dough is prepared on site using a pretzel mix provided by the franchisor. Pretzels are always warm — if they sit for more than 10 minutes, they are tossed.\nLineups have been constant since Mr. Pretzels opened in Southcentre a few weeks ago. Gluten issues notwithstanding, who doesn’t like bread warm from the oven?\nNote: These are unlike most other pretzels, such as the salted, bready ones sold on street corners in Germany. They’re soft and doughy, rather than firm and chewy.\nJohn Gilchrist can be reached at escurial@telus.net or at 403-235-7532 or follow him on Twitter @GilchristJohn}}
{{MALMO, Sweden – Vancouver Canucks legend-turned-executive Stan Smyl knows what he’s going to see from Bo Horvat every time he watches him play.\nIn Smyl’s mind, Horvat is as consistent as they come.\n“If you can bring that night after night, you’re going to be a solid, solid NHL player,” said Smyl, the Canucks senior adviser and director of player development, in a phone interview about the team’s first-round pick last June.\n“That’s what Bo does. It’s both ends of the rink.”\nThat’s what Bo is doing for Team Canada at the world junior championship.\nHorvat has three points in five games heading into Saturday’s semifinal against Finland.\nBut it’s the intangible skills he provides that have critical to Canada’s success.\nHe’s taken 42 faceoffs and won 60.87 per cent of them, leading his team in both categories.\nHe’s one of Team Canada’s more reliable penalty killers as evidenced by his shot block late in the third period of their quarter-final victory over Switzerland on Thursday.\nSutter called him “rock solid” after the game.\n“He’s been that way for the most part for the whole tournament. He’s just a real steadying guy,” Sutter said. “He doesn’t get the recognition he does because he’s such a solid, two-way guy.\n“A lot of times everybody looks at the offensive side of it and they don’t see the details in the game that are important for teams to have success.”\nHorvat started the tournament as arguably Canada’s top centre, playing on a line with Connor McDavid and Sam Reinhart.\nHe was shuffled to a line with Reinhart and captain Scott Laughton before the last preliminary round game against the United States, taking on a more defensive role in the process.\n“We have lots of guys that can put up points here,” said Horvat, normally a centreman for the OHL’s London Knights. “For me, I’m not too worried about the points.\n“I want to do whatever it takes to help me team win, whether that’s blocking shots or winning faceoffs.”\nHorvat was preached the importance of playing defensively by his father, Tim, who played Jr. B hockey and also had a brief cup of coffee with the Knights before playing professionally in Europe.\nTim was a winger, but he convinced his son to play centre and taught him how to take draws and be defensively aware.\n“I think it started ever since I was little actually. I’ve always had a two-way game,” Horvat said.\nHorvat added that the key to his consistency is playing within his means.\n“I just try not to do more than I’m capable of,” he said. “I’m not trying to go out there and put up five points every game.”\nHorvat certainly is not without offensive credentials though.\nHe was the OHL’s playoff MVP last season as he led the post-season in goal scoring.\nNone was bigger than his winning goal with less than a second left in Game 7 of the OHL final.\n“It’s always brought up around London,” said Horvat, who’s from nearby Rodney. “It was definitely the biggest goal I’ve ever scored in my career so far. I’m sure it’ll be talked about for a long time.”\nHe’d love to score another big goal like that for Canada.\nIf he doesn’t, he’ll make sure to bring something else to the table.\nHorvat earned high praise for his defensive skills in the OHL last season.\nHe won the Western Conference coaches’ awards for best faceoff man and top shot blocker.\nAnd, as Smyl has noted, Horvat does it all night after night.\n“That’s something that might go unnoticed at the start,” Smyl said. “Once you see him play, he really grows on you.”\ndnugent-bowman@thestarphoenix.com\nTwitter.com/DNBsports}}
{{Franco-Nevada Corp. Chairman Pierre Lassonde is sounding the alarm on the hollowing out of Canada’s big mining companies.\nLassonde, who will step down from his role and become chairman emeritus next year, said he’s “very sorry” that large miners are moving their headquarters outside of Canada, and bemoaned the impact it could have on the whole industry.\n“[If] their headquarters go, it means all of the research and development, the head of exploration, the finances, it’s all gone,” Lassonde told BNN Bloomberg’s Andrew Bell Friday.\n“You eviscerate the country of incredible talent,” he added. “We have incredible renewal, we have the most junior companies in the world and we have a capital market. But it’s not enough. We need these big companies.”\nIt’s not the first time Lassonde has raised concerns about the exodus of big miners from Canada. In January, he warned that Barrick would not be a “de facto Canadian company” after the gold miner laid off dozens of staff at its Toronto headquarters in December following its acquisition of Randgold Resources Ltd.\nOn Friday, Lassonde added that Vancouver-based Teck Resources Ltd. is the only large mining player left in Canada, mostly due to its dual-class share structure.\n“And you know what, God bless them,” he said.}}
{{A 56-year-old man has been arrested and charged for threatening a baby on a Vancouver bus.\nArthur Emile Cherpak is charged with two counts of uttering threats, assault and criminal harassment and will appear in provincial court Tuesday, according to a Transit Police press release.\nOn May 31, a woman and her 16-month-old child in a stroller boarded a Coast Mountain bus at Davie Street and Bute Street in the West End.\nMinutes later, a man boarded the bus at Thurlow Street. He stood next to them and began pushing the harness release buttons on the child's stroller. The mother asked him to stop and he began yelling and swearing at her. When a passenger tried to intercede, the man allegedly threatened to break his nose.\nThe mother and child tried to get off the bus, but the man then allegedly blocked her way and then lunged at her and the baby. Several passengers grabbed the man and tried to hold him, but he broke free and got off the bus at Granville and Davie Street.}}
{{It’s amusing to see liberal Americans “virtue signaling” the world by “apologizing” for Trump for “attacking” Canadian Prime Minster Justin Trudeau.\nAccording to these patriotic citizens, Trump is a boor, an insult-machine, crass and nasty. And he forced poor, traumatized Trudeau to courageously stand behind a podium with armed guards nearby squeaking, “We will not be bullied.”\nAll this went down after Trump had signed off on the G-7 agreement in which the United States and six of our allies, including Canada, all agreed to work together for peace, a clean environment, fair taxes and singing “kumbaya.”\nLet’s you and I do something here that the Mika and Joe Scarboroughs of the world simply cannot bring themselves to do: look at the trade wars from the perspective of the people most affected by years of ongoing battles.\nCanada actually dictates (Trudeau the Dictator?!!) how much milk, eggs and various dairy and poultry products farmers are allowed to produce, and at what price they may sell such products.\nYou Might Like\nThis was “put in place” by the benevolent bosses of the Canadian government to compensate for surplus production in the 1950’s and 1960’s.\nTo keep supply as stable as possible and make everything “fair,” the government benevolently blocks imports from the U.S. by whacking our dairy farmers with tariffs that are, as Trump has said, up to 270 percent on dairy products.\nSo, if any Canadian says, “Ok there, now don’cha know yew guys import more dairy to Canada than we sell to you,” it’s true because their government makes sure they don’t have much to spare.\nThen, there’s timber.\nWhen builders shop for materials, they want good quality that’s affordable and allows for a profit margin.\nWhen the Canadian government subsidizes their timber industry to the point where Canadian timber costs nearly ten percent less than local U.S. timber, builders are going to dial the Canadian area code.\nImagine that.\nLast November, the U.S. Commerce Department released their final finding that imports of Canadian softwood lumber are being unfairly subsidized and “dumped” in the United States.\nThis is no small problem for American timber businesses.\nImagine being in this business and then having to compete with Canadian companies whose government subsidizes about five and a half billion dollars worth of lumber so their companies can undercut yours.\nThe Commerce Department’s report said exporters from Canada have sold softwood lumber in the U.S. market at nearly 9 percent less than fair value.\n9 percent. That’s yuuuuge!\nAdd to that Canada is providing unfair subsidies at rates up to 18 percent.\nSo, when mean old Mr. Trump slapped tariffs of up to 24 percent on imported Canadian softwood lumber, Trudeau squealed like a squirrel chain-sawed out of his home.\nThe Press-Herald reported: “What we’ve desired all this time is a level playing field, and news like this gives us confidence,” said Jason Brochu, co-president of Pleasant River Lumber, which employs 300 people at (Maine) sawmills in Dover-Foxcroft, Jackman, Hancock and Sanford. “With a strong presence from the government and such an emphasis on trade and jobs, it is timed perfectly for us to expand our operation and increase employment, which is exactly what we are going to do.”\n(Note to Bobby DeNiro:Maine is in the United States)\nU.S-owned lumber companies have pushed for our government to counter these duties for years through the U.S. Lumber Coalition, which also has claimed Canada is dumping softwood lumber on the U.S. market below cost.\nSo, if you’re one of the Americans writing to Canadian news outlets to “apologize” for Trump, remember he’s keeping his promise to fight Trudeau’s Canadian tariff “bullies.”\nAll I ask is please don’t screw it up by suggesting Trudeau impose huge price increases for their delicious 7-year Canadian cheddar cheese.\nIt’s the best thing we get from Canada besides a well-manicured victim for American self-aggrandizing virtue signaling.\n–\nCopyright 2018 Rick Jensen, distributed exclusively by Cagle Cartoons newspaper syndicate.\nRick Jensen is an annoying, award-winning Delaware talk show host and equally annoying national columnist. Email rick@DBCMedia.com.\n—-\nDon’t leave yet! Please join in the discussions. Comment on this story by clicking here.\nVN:D [1.9.6_1107]\nRating: 10.0/10 (2 votes cast)}}
{{Montreal: Canada has warned it was reviewing reports that Saudi Arabia is using Canadian armored vehicles in a crackdown in the Sunni-ruled kingdom's Shiite-majority east.\n"We are looking at these claims very seriously... And have immediately launched a review," Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, speaking in French, said in during a visit in central Canada.\nThe Globe and Mail reported earlier that light armored vehicles sold by Canada to Saudi Arabia had been used against Shia civilians in a major operation that left several people in the town of Awamiya in Eastern Province.\nExperts told the newspaper that vehicles appearing in photos and videos of the Saudi operations were Gurkha RPVs produced by Terradyne Armored Vehicles near Toronto.\nEarlier, a spokesman indicated that Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland was "deeply concerned about this situation and has asked officials to review it immediately."\n"If it is found that Canadian exports have been used to commit serious violations of human rights, the minister will take action," added spokesman John Babcock.\n"The government is actively seeking more information about Saudi Arabia's current efforts to deal with its security challenges, the reports of civilian casualties, and the reports that Canadian-made vehicles have been used by Saudi Arabia in its current security operations," he said in a statement.\n"Canada will review all available information as it determines an appropriate course of action."\nBabcock said Ottawa had shared its concerns with Saudi Arabia, demanding that "its internal security operations be conducted in a manner consistent with international human rights law."\nThe controversial $13 billion US contract to supply Riyadh with light armored vehicles was struck by the previous Conservative government.\nTrudeau's Liberal government has had to defend this contract against criticism that it may have violated Canada's export control rules that bar arms exports to countries with a poor human rights record and the prohibit using these weapons against civilians.\nFreeland's predecessor, Stephane Dion, had stated in April 2016 that the government would halt or revoke the export license for the military equipment if credible information showed it was being used inappropriately.\n"We have contracts in which people commit to respect Canadian laws, the terms of the contract and Canadian values, and we expect these contracts to be respected," Trudeau said.}}
{{TORONTO, July 25 (Reuters) - Canada's main stock index turned higher in early Thursday trade after gains in Teck Resources Ltd helped offset disappointing quarterly reports from Potash Corp and Goldcorp Inc. The Toronto Stock Exchange's S&P/TSX composite index was up 21.31 points, or 0.17 percent, at 12,693.61.}}
{{After rolling out the Android 7.0 update to G5 users in South Korea, LG promised users in other markets will also receive sweet Nougat “in the weeks to come.”\nIt seems the promise was kept as we have received tips from several readers that Bell has pushed out the Android 7.0 update to its customers. In addition, Rogers, Fido, Telus and Koodo Mobile customers are reporting the Nougat update is available to download now.\nIf you’re not seeing a download notification, manually check for it via Menu > Settings > About Device > Software Update > Update.\nThanks _NUNDO, Stephen, Simpliflyer Dot and Emanuel!}}
{{× Canada becomes second nation in the world to legalize marijuana\nRecreational marijuana use will soon be legal in Canada after the Senate passed a “historic” bill on Tuesday with a vote of 52-29.\nCanada is only the second country in the world — and the first G7 nation — to implement legislation to permit a nationwide marijuana market. In the neighboring US, nine states and the District of Columbia now allow for recreational marijuana use, and 30 allow for medical use.\nBill C-45, otherwise known as the Cannabis Act, stems from a campaign pledge of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to keep marijuana away from underage users and reduce related crime.\nThe act to legalize the recreational use of weed was first introduced on April 13, 2017, and was later passed at the House of Commons in November. The Senate passage of the bill was the final hurdle in the process.\nUruguay was the first country to legalize marijuana’s production, sale and consumption in December 2013.\nAlthough the Canadian government had initially stated its intent to implement by July 2018, provinces and territories, who will be responsible for drafting their own rules for marijuana sales, have advised that they would need eight to 12 weeks after the Senate approval to transition to the new framework.\nThe government is expected to choose a date in early or mid September.\nOn Twitter, Trudeau praised the bill and focused on Canada’s youth.\n“It’s been too easy for our kids to get marijuana – and for criminals to reap the profits. Today, we change that. Our plan to legalize & regulate marijuana just passed the Senate,” he tweeted.\nThe justice minister, Jody Wilson-Raybould, also applauded the vote.\n“This is an historic milestone for progressive policy in Canada,” she tweeted. “This legislation will help protect our youth from the risks of cannabis while keeping profits out of the hands of criminals and organized crime.”\nWhat’s legal and what’s not\nOnce the bill is formally approved, adults will be able to carry and share up to 30 grams of legal marijuana in public. They also will be allowed to cultivate up to four plants in their households and prepare products such as edibles for personal use.\nHowever, stringent rules will still govern the purchase and use of marijuana.\nConsumers are expected to purchase marijuana from retailers regulated by provinces, territories or — when neither of those options are available — federally licensed producers. Marijuana will also not be sold in the same location as alcohol or tobacco.\nThe Canadian government has also implemented changes to their impaired driving laws, to address repercussions for driving under the influence of cannabis.\nThe bill set a floor on the minimum age of the consumer at 18 years, and makes the production, distribution, or sale of cannabis products an offense for minors.\nWhile provinces can increase the minimum age, the intent is to continue to discourage Canadian youth from pot use, by establishing many of the same restrictions that exist for cigarettes and other tobacco products.\nMarket boom\nC-45 is also expected to spark a billion-dollar industry, given total spending on marijuana could surge as high as 58%, especially as users are expected to be willing to pay a premium for legal access to the drug.\nIn the United States, BDS Analytics estimated that the pot industry took in nearly $9 billion in sales in 2017. The revenue from the sales is equivalent to the entire snack bar industry.\nAs a result, the attempts to legalize cannibas for recreational use have caused Canadian marijuana companies like Canopy Growth Corp., Aphria Inc., and Aurora Cannabis Inc. to become the center of investor frenzy.\nAs provinces decide local rules of implementation, marijuana availability will vary across the country. In Alberta, recreational weed will be widely available at more than 200 private retailers across the province. On the opposite end of the spectrum, marijuana availability will only be provided in 40 state-run shops in Ontario. In Newfoundland and Labrador, it will be available in Loblaws grocery stores.}}
{{First responders fight burning trains after a train derailment and explosion in Lac-Megantic, Quebec early July 6, 2013 in this picture provided by the Transportation Safety Board of Canada. REUTERS/Transportation Safety Board of Canada/Handout via Reuters\nLAC-MEGANTIC, Quebec (Reuters) - The crude oil freight train that derailed and blew up in the small town of Lac-Megantic early on Saturday morning was traveling far too fast when it went off the rails, investigators told reporters on Tuesday.\n“The train derail(ed) at approximately 1.14 a.m. and although we can’t provide the precise speed at this time, the train was traveling well in excess of its authorized speed at that point,” said Donald Ross, an investigator with the Transportation Safety Board of Canada.\nAt least 13 people died in the disaster and the death toll could reach 50.}}
{{Ottawa has finally received access to businessman Michael Spavor, one of two Canadians detained by China after Canadian authorities served a U.S. arrest warrant on Huawei chief financial officer Meng Wanzhou.\nCanada’s ambassador to China, John McCallum, had a meeting with Mr. Spavor on Sunday, nearly one week after his detention.\n“Today, Canada was granted consular access to Michael Spavor,” said Richard Walker, a spokesman for the department of Foreign Affairs. “Canadian consular officials continue to provide consular services to him and his family and will continue to seek further access to Mr. Spavor. Due to the provisions of the Privacy Act, no further information can be disclosed.”\nStory continues below advertisement\nMr. McCallum met on Friday with Michael Kovrig, a former diplomat who is on leave from Foreign Affairs. He now works as an analyst for the International Crisis Group (ICG).\n“Canadian consular officials continue to provide consular services to Michael Kovrig and his family and will continue to seek further access to Mr. Kovrig,” Mr. Walker said.\nIt took four days for China to grant Canadian officials access to Mr. Kovrig, and six days in the case of Mr. Spavor. In contrast, Canada granted China immediate consular access to Ms. Meng, chief financial officer of Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd.\nBeijing took Mr. Spavor and Mr. Kovrig into custody nine days after police arrested Ms. Meng at Vancouver International Airport on U.S. charges of alleged fraud related to violating sanctions against Iran. She remains in Vancouver on $10-million bail facing extradition to the United States.\nMr. Spavor lives in China, where he runs Paektu Cultural Exchange. He gained fame for helping arrange a visit to North Korea by former NBA player Dennis Rodman. Mr. Spavor met North Korean leader Kim Jong-un on that trip.}}
{{Nearly half of all Canadians will develop cancer in their lifetime, according to a recent study by the Canadian Cancer Society.\nAlthough the numbers are staggering, the report also found the chance of surviving cancer is on the rise. In the 1940s, only 25 per cent of Canadians survived their diagnoses, but now that number is 60 per cent.\n“The number of people getting cancer is increasing and it reflects our aging population,” Dr. Robert Nuttall, assistant director of health policy with the Canadian Cancer Society said.\n“But surviving cancer is going up and less people are dying.”\nThanks to prevention methods, early detection and breakthrough drugs, survival rates for men and women are steadily increasing. Of course, this depends on age, sex and the type of cancer, Nuttall said.\nREAD MORE: B.C. researchers working to bring ‘game-changing’ cancer treatment to Canada\n“There are more than 100 types of cancers, and each one of them is treated differently. Some of them have a 90 per cent survival rate while others, like brain cancer, are quite low,” he said.\nFive-year survival for cancer is highest for:\nThyriod (98 per cent) Testicular (96 per cent) Prostate (95 per cent)\nFive-year survival for cancer is lowest for:\nPancreatic (8 per cent) Esophageal (14 per cent) Lung and bronchus (lung) (17 per cent)\nSurvival by sex\nThe study found a significant advantage for females surviving cancer compared to males — for most cancers.\nFor all cancers combined, females had a 13 per cent lower risk of death, which increased to 23 per cent for those diagnosed before the age of 55.\nREAD MORE: Can emotional support help cancer patients in treatment and recovery?\nBladder cancer was the only cancer for which females had a significant disadvantage.\nSurvival by province\nThe study showed the highest survival rate for prostate cancer is in Ontario (96 per cent) and the lowest in Manitoba (89 per cent), Saskatchewan (90 per cent) and Prince Edward Island (90 per cent ).\nThe differences among provinces may be related to the availability and use of screening, early detection and diagnostic services. The use of specialized cancer drugs and improved resources could also be a factor, according to the study.\nAlthough sex, age and geography can play a role in cancer survival, Nuttall said it’s mainly about the different types of cancers.\nREAD MORE: Newcomers to Canada have better cancer survival rates than non-immigrants. Here’s why\n“Early detection is helping the survival rates for cancers such as cervical and breast. Treatments are also improving,” Nuttall said.\nHe believes the survival rate is only going to increase in Canada.\n“Treatments are improving and an entire generation of cancer treatments are in clinical trials that will make a huge difference in people surviving,” he said.\nRead the full Canadian Cancer Society report.}}
{{After the Port of Vancouver announced this week it was cancelling its annual Canada Day Parade due to rising costs, other popular local events say they too face similar cost crunches and an uncertain future.\nItalian Day Festival organizer Brunella Gaudio said its June 10 street festival, which attracts thousands to Commercial Drive's Little Italy neighbourhood, is growing more expensive to operate due to higher waste management bills and security costs.\n"Absolutely it is [getting more difficult]," Gaudio said. "This year we squeaked through."\nItalian Day on Commercial Drive never fails to draw a crowd. (CBC)\nGaudio said the waste management bill doubled from $11,000 to $22,000 this year, and quotes for policing and security also rose.\n"This year we basically are over our budget by $40,000 to $50,000, and this is something that is completely out of our control," she said.\n"In respecting some of the safety and security concerns, we reduced our outside vendors by 25 per cent, which impacted our revenue .... when you put everything together, it is becoming so cost prohibitive."\nSecurity costs rise\nMatthew Carrico, an organizer of Car Free Day Vancouver says the local festival which has been running for 11 years, is also feeling the financial pinch.\n"For us, the big item that does seem to be increasing much faster than everything else is the security cost," Carrico said.\n"Our waste management has [also] significantly increased, like gone up three or four times in just a few years."\nBoth Gaudio and Carrico would like the City of Vancouver and the Vancouver Police Department to help offset rising operating costs.\nHundreds turned out in 2015 for Car Free Day in the West End. (CBC)\nCarrico said Car Free Day will continue as planned next month but he's unsure how much longer it's financially sustainable.}}
