Title : Canada woman jailed for smuggling $16m of cocaine into Australia

Original :
A Canadian woman who pleaded guilty to smuggling cocaine into Australia has been jailed for seven and a half years.
Isabelle Lagacé, 29, of Quebec, was facing a life sentence. Two other Canadians have also been charged.
Australian police dogs discovered C$20m ($16m; £12m) of cocaine in their cabins after the cruise ship they were on docked in Sydney on 29 August 2016.
Lagacé's cabin mate, Melina Roberge, 22, claims she did not know about the drugs and is also facing trial.
Police found 35 kg (77 lbs) of cocaine in a suitcase in the cabin shared by Ms Roberge and Lagacé. They found an additional 60 kg in the room of Andre Tamine, a 63-year-old from Quebec.
It is not known if or how the girls knew him. Mr Tamine has pleaded not guilty and is also on trial.
According to Australian Border Force commander Tim Fitzgerald, the bust was the largest drug seizure Australia has ever had on a boat or plane.
Picture of the cocaine found in the trio's suitcase
Lagacé told the court on Friday that her "error in judgment" would haunt her for the rest of her life, the Australian broadcaster 9News reported.
"It pains me to know my defining moments of womanhood will be spent in prison halfway around the world," she said.
The women from Quebec had boarded the luxury cruise ship MS Sea Princess in Southampton, England, two months earlier, and regularly posted photos of their travels on social media.

Generated :
A Canadian woman is to stand trial for illegally smuggling a drug worth millions from Colombia to Australia.
Carole Pallas, 44, was arrested outside Sydney Airport in July last year by Australian Customs with a diamond ring worth about $16 million tucked under her arm.
The gold stone, which police claimed to have counterfeit, was hidden under a gun in her handbag.
Carole Pallas, 44, is facing a Customs taskforce in Australia for supplying drugs worth more than $16 million
The diamond ring was hidden underneath the top of her wristband
Mr Justice Michael Denghy has told The Australian this was a case of 'serious crime,' adding: 'It appears she intended to access the narcotics via a conveyor belt and have brought it across Australia.'
Mr Justice Denghy said that despite 'a fairly good argument' against the seized gold, Pallas could not produce a photo of the ring to show it had been dismantled.
The businesswoman, who has never worked for the company, is due to face trial in June.
In court documents, she can not be named for legal reasons.
Despite her and her boyfriend being her main sources of income, the gold necklaces often remained hidden underneath the wristband.
She is also accused of forging documents required to bring the ring into Australia and repeatedly communicating with authorities, a number of which she has refused to cooperate with.
