Title : Sweden's giant Gavle goat survives Christmas

Original :
There is extra Christmas cheer in the Swedish town of Gavle this year because its annual giant straw goat has survived for more than three weeks.
Last year's goat fell victim to an arsonist on 27 November, less than 24 hours after it had been erected.
Standing 13 metres (43ft) tall, it is the world's biggest straw goat.
Most of its incarnations have been burnt or vandalised since 1966, when the tradition began.
However this year, the goat is still sending merry tweets.
Maria Wallberg, who handles the goat's public relations, said: "It's great that he has been left standing for so long."
She said new higher and double fences had kept intruders away.
This year a non-profit organisation, X-Cons Gavleborg, also deployed volunteers to protect the goat, she told the BBC.
News site The Local has compiled a list of the "weirdest attacks" on the yule goat, including an attempted kidnapping via helicopter and the time a person dressed as a gingerbread man shot it with flaming arrows.
You might also be interested in:
US officer punches ice pond to rescue boy
Life inside a town called Santa Claus
Anyone in Melbourne lost a crocodile?
By tradition, the goat effigy goes up in Gavle, 158km (98 miles) north of Stockholm, on the first Sunday of Christian Advent.
This year it has been standing since 3 December, and the town hopes the 3.6-tonne effigy will survive until 2 January.

Generated :
(Reuters) - A Swedish mother and her 37-year-old goat did what always happens in Christmas – hundreds of thousands of baby goats were left hoarding in a Berlin zoo in 2012 and killed after six months.
Arapat Baye Flemish, one of Sweden's largest herds of sofas at Asmars Flemish Zoo, is pictured in Arapat Baye Flemish, on the outskirts of Stockholm, Sweden December 28, 2017. REUTERS/Olympia Strauss
Now the daily New Year's Eve edition of Swedish daily Dagens Nyheter carries an audio message from Fugie Gavleek that goes on to say at least 38 goats have been slaughtered from Swedish facilities, and half the animals are sick.
The recording of the song “Cold Mountain” was posted on YouTube by an animal rights charity on Friday.
Gavleek says that the Grop Gavleek family in Shemtöer, north of Stockholm, owned between 200 and 400 animals.
Ten of the animals were killed last year in the first three months of 2017, he said. In the most recent months, Gavleek said that the family had eventually abandoned 80.
“They knew it was there, but they did not know it was finished,” he said.
Earlier this month, the guardians of the animals - who were scattered around the Grop Gavleek herd - were unable to keep the goats properly for weeks due to the lack of snow.
It was to be the first time the animals had survived at the Gavleek family's home, the main zoo in the centre of Stockholm, the Grop Gavleek said on Friday.
“It is quite amazing they got home from this very difficult Christmas,” he said.
He is sorry that he would not have the help to revive them.
“We were exhausted after nine months because we were fed by the Grop Gavleek family with lots of food. We could not come to the zoo for so many weeks,” Fugie Gavleek said.
“It is true that all of us used to trust the Grop Gavleek family and we didn't have the experience. Our patience was violated by no food or water on December 31.”
(Reporting by Martinne Geller; Editing by Leslie Adler)
Neuer Inhalt Horizontal Line
SWI swissinfo.ch on Instagram SWI swissinfo.ch on Instagram
