Title : Britney Spears doesn’t listen to her own music

Original :
Britney Spears has admitted she doesn’t listen to her own music.
The singer revealed she considers her involvement with her recorded music ends once she’s finished recording her songs.
Spears told Flaunt: “I don’t really listen to my music. My kids and my nieces do. I’m about the creative process – I’m in the moment of being creative, and then I put it out there.”
Spears is in the middle of a residency at Planet Hollywood in Las Vegas, and said: “Of course, I sing my songs every night and I have to listen to it that way, but I’m all about change. But there’s a part of me in my music, and I hope that my fans can have that part of me when they hear me on the radio, buy my CD or whatever they do.”
The singer plays her first UK show for five years when she headlines London’s Roundhouse on September 27 as part of Apple Music Festival.
She explained that she suffers from anxiety issues when she’s in public away from her concerts. Spears said: “I’m so weird. I get nervous in a lot of situations: parties, clubs… When there are a lot of people around, I’m a weird, anxiety-ridden person.”
Spears’ new album ‘Glory’ became her fifth to reach No 2, when it was beaten by Barbra Streisand[/s]’s ‘Encores’ last week.

Generated :
Britney Spears is so unbothered by her fans that she somehow sits on hold and eats bread for lunch instead of eating them, the Wrap reports.
The popular comedian, 45, has no idea why she can’t listen to her own music. She doesn’t even own the number one radio station – even though her second album is actually a whopping 17.
The “Hero” singer decided to use her packed and healthy lunch to support her once more “Feeling Good” tour, which kicks off October 12 at the Chicago Arena and stops in Anaheim, California on October 23 and San Jose, California on October 24. The announcement comes just before she hits the road again on October 20th in Detroit, Michigan.
Her friend and friend Kendra Wilkinson also came on the tour to support Spears. The ex-bachelor donned her own tan jacket and gloves as well as her bodyguard, Mike Henry, and her mother, Katherine Johnson.
The singer’s fans seem to be very supportive of her; even a baby-faced 19-year-old fan named Bianca Siegel posted a picture of herself with the singer on Instagram where the singer’s smiling face can be seen.
The woman is posting up selfies of herself holding Spears’ twin sister during the show; as we reported at the time, Britney actually never left Kris Jenner’s home. The two apparently had planned on holding the power-packed tour a month before the financial crisis began, as BETA sources told our sister site TMZ.
Last spring, the singer was photographed wearing a £30,000 Katie Holmes-style yellow jacket for a huge denim shopping t-shirt show at Lidl in New York. The outfit symbolized her love of big-city life and Bon Jovi.
But now, the singer is set to fall to her lower case. Her mother Kris Jenner has announced on Twitter that the star plans to cut her own clothing to make way for her new disguise.
@BritneyAsowaughs: Mother Kris Jenner has notified her daughter, Britney Spears, to ditch her shopping t-shirt for a jumpsuit! — Jennifer Beals (@Jenniferbbeals) September 1, 2016
The pair have also been careful with Jenelle Evans’ new look, showing off an altered face with masking tape and wearing no makeup on.
Revealing her new look, Britney said that the look was done on condition that she wore a separate wig.
“I put some showstopper onto it,” she told People magazine. “I wrote a wig on it and it was going to look like this and I put the wig on again and it would go completely out and look like this.”
The singer went on to mention the results of her tweezers and confessed that she now finds herself more accustomed to wearing her celebrity looks.
“No one knows how much more amazing than I do when I’m working in the front row, and people are constantly saying, ‘Britney, look at you, you look fabulous!’”
