Title : ANALYZING HOMEWORK'S IMPACT

Original :
It has been a debate for decades. Children are unhappy about doing homework and teachers insist that homework is key to helping students learn.
In recent years, parents have joined in the debate, complaining their children are stressed out because of an increased workload. That has prompted school districts across the country to re-examine their homework policies.
When we learned of Katy ISD’s plans to implement several no-homework nights this school year, we took the homework debate to Dr. Jeffrey Liew, professor of educational psychology.
Dr. Liew points to research that says not all homework is created equally – it depends on a variety of factors such as the type of assignments, the school subject, and the grade level.
Several studies show elementary students who do homework fare no better in school than students who do not. There is a slight uptick in higher grade levels, but the impact is minimal. However, Dr. Liew says homework can be beneficial to learning and achievement – because some subjects and school projects require more practice or time to complete than others.
“Ultimately, it is important to think about why homework is being assigned and how effectively homework assignments will serve to achieve learning objectives or goals,” he said. “Homework can benefit children’s learning, but not when homework assignments are used simply as a way to keep children busy or preoccupied after school.”
Most of Dr. Liew’s own research relates to child development. When we asked him about homework’s impact on free play and creative thinking, he said he is not surprised when he sees students struggle with certain life skills after they graduate from high school and go off to college or enter the workforce.
“When homework assignments dictate children’s after-school schedules, that leaves them little to no time for social or recreational activities. It also leaves them little to no time for learning critical life skills such as developing self-interests, self-initiative or autonomy, and peer relationships. These social emotional learning or life skills are critical for their development as a whole-person – skills for success that they will need for a lifetime.”
When children come home without homework, or on the designated no-homework nights, Dr. Liew has suggestions for parents.
“Rather than always controlling what their children should do when there is free time, parents who give their children some freedom to suggest and choose what they could do together are helping promote their children’s planning and decision-making skills.”
The goal for many parents on these no-homework nights is to also build and strengthen the relationships and bonds with their children. While some teachers argue parents can also accomplish that with homework, as it turns out, some parents don’t feel they have the background needed to help. This causes stresses for both children and parents.
“Having some homework assignments, especially when children progress into the higher grades can really help them master concepts and skills. But too much homework may be counterproductive for both students and parents” explained Dr. Liew. “And schools need to consider the diversity in home situations, as not all students come from homes with parents in a position to help their children with homework.”
For Dr. Liew, he sees the homework debate as an opportunity to focus attention on the need for ways to improve and enhance the schooling experience to ensure quality and equity in education for all children.

Generated :
Interesting new developments
Crippling strain of the Asian Muscular Dystrophy Association was highly unusual in recent years. On July 21 of this year, researchers from King’s College London and South Florida in the UK published a paper that raised questions about the accuracy of laboratory studies that identify YDs as “DNF” or rapidly vanishing at scale. Particularly troubling, they noted, was the apparent proximity to the Dale Allan No.1 strain — termed “Toyota-Tigers” — produced by Volvo Group.
The Japanese research team believes the YDs were mutated to detect and mark the presence of induced polonium-210 in Toyota models. In Japan and Europe, the microscopic particles look like bank notes that aren’t classified as nonviable but are critical if the model can be altered, or modified to produce a modified form. Unfortunately, experiments measuring pressure and other factors associated with sustained execution were lacking in those techniques. In this case, Toyota tested 15-wheel powered cars with the steroid-injected, mini-stroke car.
The results confirm the important statement on paper by the researchers: “We found that it was rather unusual, particularly at a practical scale, that EDF and Toyota had identified the YDs as commonly referred to as ‘Toyota-Tigers’”. In addition, “We are now able to generate a nonviable model as far as we can.”
EARLIER THREAD: West and Central East Asia crisis: Analal testimony
And while those first responders, as well as the government, should have the benefit of this tissue sampling work, the Human Resources Team (HRT) of the Department of Social and Family Support (DHFS) are not apologetic.
“DHFS have been working closely with these two separate HLVMD groups to ensure their oversight of HLVMD. If any further work is done on HLVMD then DHFS will assess this as well.” Those who have been on HLVMD include government and one of DHFS’s members. DHFS provided to the Guardian a description of their data collection on the HLVMDs produced by Toyota and their effect on humans.
According to the website of the Human Resources Team, the calculations used in the HLVMD studies were based on a possible analysis of the HLVMD detected by Toyota and supplied to DHFS using computer proxies. This data was presented to DHFS as well as to the British Geological Survey but its analyses, however, are first dibs on DHFS’s policy decisions.
A letter to DHFS and the BBC, from Marietta Police Commissioner Linda Butler, states, “We understand that the HLVMD DNF/Toyota-Tigers results will generate a whole range of questions that were never seen before.”
Linda Butler’s note provides further evidence that our HLVMD testing is up to task.
“If the results of our studies are satisfactory, we want to have the HLVMD DNF/Toyota-Tigers system in place by January 2018, for ultimate monitoring.”
READ MORE: Indian claim taunts West • Soviet chemical weapons: Iranian scientists win pride of place in Korean media
Those who testified had little direct effect on allianians worldwide. The LA Times reported that the English-language Pyongyang Times had a 31.8 percent effect on the northern hemisphere in 2008.
Dr. Claude Van An was appointed a senior public health officer at a government health department in the mid-1990s. During his time in office, he conducted annual reports on public health practice, opened audit review reports and published final guidelines, including a dietary restriction protocol for adult men with other major health problems.
Read more:
WHO THINKS OTHER NATIONAL HEALTH PLANS CAN WORK?
WHO COULD ADD MORE NIKONIC 3-D GEEK PRINTS TO NORMAL PRINCIPLES?
WHO EXPERTS SAY IT APPEARS THE DARK AREAW, FORCED PROMISES ARE ‘FOREVER’
