Title : Key education goals elusive in more than 70 countries, UN agency reports

Original :
While 83 countries are on track to achieve universal education by 2015, a key goal set at a forum in Dakar, Senegal, in 2000, nearly an equal number will not make the target, with some even going backwards, the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) said today in a new report.
According to the report, 28 countries, accounting for over 26 per cent of the world's population, may not achieve any of the three measurable goals set in Dakar - universal primary education (UPE), gender equality and the halving of illiteracy rates. Meanwhile, 43 countries covering 35.6 per cent of the world's population risk falling short of at least one of the three targets. Two-thirds of the countries that are not expected to achieve any of the goals are in sub-Saharan Africa, but they also include India and Pakistan.
In addition to those three goals, the World Education Forum in Dakar also agreed to expanded early childhood care and education, increased learning opportunities for youth and adults and improvement of all aspects of education quality.
In declaring that UPE is unlikely to be reached in 57 countries at current rates of progress, the report says 41 of these countries, including some Central and East European nations, have even been moving backwards. While the goal of gender parity is supposed to be met by 2005, 31 nations remain at risk of not meeting this goal even by 2015. However, 86 countries have already achieved gender parity and another 35 are close to doing so.
The report says unless a much greater effort is made, 78 countries - including four of the world's most populous countries, Bangladesh, China, India and Pakistan, which alone account for 61 per cent of the world's illiterate adults - will not be able to halve their rate of illiteracy by 2015. The report also finds that the cost of providing education for all has been underestimated, partly because the high cost of conflict and HIV/AIDS on education has not been taken into account.
According to the report, while HIV/AIDS alone will add $975 million to the annual bill for achieving UPE, the cost of education has greatly increased in 73 countries dealing with internal crises or engaged in post-conflict reconstruction.
To meet the expense, the report says major education and economic reforms and increased external aid will be required in many countries, and adds that an extra $5.6 billion will be needed each year to achieve the UPE and gender goals alone. Total bilateral aid to education, which accounts for 70 per cent of all such financial support, fell by 16 per cent over the past decade due to conflict, the inability of national institutions to absorb funds rapidly and the reluctance of some governments to reform education systems and policies.

Generated :
Key school goals have been just delivered on to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), a United Nations assessment of education, told Reuters yesterday.
The objectives of the first 15 years of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are to curb poverty, improve health and overcome childhood illiteracy, while achieving energy efficiency, water, sanitation and food security.
In some 20 countries, the goal to reduce development-related global pollution in 1990 levels by 2025 was met. And in a further 29, it is now being met. The MDGs were passed by presidents of the UN agencies in May 2000.
The authors of the report, United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), emphasised that the MDGs are the primary means to achieve these goals, to ensure adequate funds for the development of and adaptation to the planet's development pathways.
In their essays in the same newspaper as these "Key Results from Globally Ago" the authors wrote: "The seven pillars to be pursued in the Millennium Development Goals include: ... a strong education sector; income-generating skills; increased motivation to contribute to global development; and liberalising governance and international cooperation."
There are also two additional major goals that the key scorers are still harping on.
The first will be the fact that the Millennium Development Goals are in many ways aspirational countries: First they must construct public schools with supportive teachers, said the authors.
Second, they must develop a robust system of secondary education with adequate support for the
equality of outcomes for students in urban, specialised and underfunded schooling.
"One of the measures is to ensure that the foundation of a national school system is built upon a series of sustainable operating systems," said the authors.
In this approach, they said, "modernisation of schools and schools for the indigenous poor is in plain sight."
But they say that the problems will still be addressed before the 2030 Agenda is fully realised.
"All actions must be taken to reduce the impacts of poverty on the universal school experience," they wrote.
They advise that funding for improved under-20 education levels be doubled. They encouraged the formation of local child education frameworks to produce better teacher teachers; and provided training for teachers in their schools.
They also agreed that intergovernmental agreements on education funding should be strengthened to allow more flexibility to administrators.
"Staying the rule of law in education means that we need to ensure that this is replicated in every state in the world," said the authors.
In addition, they advocated introducing more food stamps and food assistance programmes.
The UN adopted a "walled garden" guideline for education in June. Under that, schools must be free from hunger, but they must offer subsidies to women and children for learning and learning well, the authors added.
The authors also note that UN education officers are discouraged from advising general assemblies on the goals. They also say the principles of constitution should not be used in public assemblies.
"Generally, teachers cannot be read in assemblies," said the authors.
Follow @oslavealicious for news on the global education agenda
