Title : UK troops mark last Christmas in Afghanistan

Original :
Some 5,000 British service personnel are spending Christmas in Afghanistan, along with tens of thousands of other international forces.
This is expected to be the British forces' final year in Afghanistan, with all combat troops expected to have withdrawn from Afghanistan by this time next year.
Karen Allen reports from Camp Bastion.

Generated :
LONDON (Reuters) - Britain’s troops walked their last Christmas without a tear gas canister as their commander in Afghanistan, General Mark Downing, ceremonially awarded the British Embassy the world’s largest open-top garden containing 600 Turkish artefacts to his German counterpart.
Defense Minister David Cameron on Friday said he had commissioned a five-year, 6,500-pound collection of Turkish antiques worth 35 million pounds ($52 million) from Britain’s Ministry of Defence (MoD).
“I am delighted that the UK Government has brought on the project a responsible way forward,” Downing told reporters on Friday.
“If we’re expecting it to yield positive results, we certainly can’t afford to be in a mode that didn’t in the past,” he said.
Cameron pledged that “we will never walk away from our responsibility to a secure Afghan government and that means ... taking our security concerns to the global community, as important as securing Afghanistan’s borders with Russia and Turkey”.
In Kabul on Thursday, Russian President Vladimir Putin hailed the British effort as “the very finest contribution to the security and stability of Afghanistan”.
At a Christmas press conference in Berlin, Chancellor Angela Merkel offered fresh congratulations to Downing and complimented him on the partnership as the first British foreign office building to be in Afghanistan since 2000.
“We shall come to a satisfactory conclusion that through the use of the high-powered United Nations Security Council, a United Free Zone will be officially declared the most secure haven in Afghanistan,” she said.
The Ottoman Empire was ruled by a British Army army from 1925 to 1963 as an independent principality, but was created as a colony by a Russian-supported British president (1857 to 1897). It was abolished in the 1840s.
Britain has spent more than 1,100 years planning to reconstruct Afghanistan, including a plan for creation of a local state of Afghanistan that Cameron said he hoped would bring stability to the country and run afoul of Islamic extremists.
Over the past few months, British troops have taken control of Riga airport, a federal block in Latvia that Britain wants to end with a formal focus on a left-leaning government, and in Kandahar, a city already under British occupation.
Last month, a British M60 Apache helicopter crashed during off-duty action in Afghanistan, killing 47 people, including an air force pilot. The pilot, Humvee pilot Ghulam Quafraar, was being treated for injuries.
