Title : Disinformation about Public Celebrations for Christmas 2008 in London being Banned because of Muslims

Original :
On January 15, in an interview with the newspaper Kviris Palitra "What are we looking for in Europe – monuments made out of excrement or Michelangelo?!" Georgian writer Kote Jandieri criticised liberal values for their dogmatic worldview on sensitive issues. To illustrate his argumentation he cited the case of London in 2008, when a ban on all public events related to Christmas was enacted for the purpose of not angering and appeasing the city’s Muslim population. According to Kote Jandieri’s comment, the famous Soviet dissident Vladimir Bukovsky writes about the issue.
Kote Jandieri, writer: “According to Bukovsky, in 2008 London, all public events associated with Christmas celebrations were restricted, as the British flag displays St. George's cross, and it would remind Muslims of the Crusades and cause animosity. Meanwhile the British Muslims did not ask anything of the sort but nobody asked their opinion on this matter.”
Kviris Palitra, issue for the week of 15-21 January
The claim that public prohibitions against Christmas in 2008 were enacted to prevent irritation from Muslims in London is false. Furthermore, there is no regulation which prohibits Christmas celebrations in Britain and the use of the National Flag of England.
The Myth Detector contacted the Department of Culture, Media and Sport of the United Kingdom Government, which stated that the fact that none of the cases had occurred in 2008 or later, and that the above mentionned statement is lacking any factual basis.
According to the Department, there is no regulation in the United Kingdom that prohibits the holding of Christmas events and the use of the National Flag.
In 2008 Christmas was celebratedin London as per usual. The celebration of Christmas in the history of Great Britain was banned only once in 1644, 3 centuries ago, when the Puritans who ruled Britain at the time viewed Christmas festivities as inadmissible for their Christian values, so banned them by the issue of a Parliamentary Act. In 1660, when the Monarchy was restored in England, all legislation passed during 1642-1660 was revoked and the observance of Christmas festivities was restored with its religious and secular elements.
In the interview with the Kviris Palitra, Kote Jandieri quotes Vladimir Bukovsky's words inaccurately. In 2009, the famous Soviet dissident Vladimir Bukovsky delivered a lecture on "Is political correctness worse than Leninism?" in Sofia, capital city of Bulgaria. During his speech Bukovsky noted:
Vladimir Bukovsky, Soviet dissident: "Last year, all public attributes of Christmas were banned in England. Christmas festivities in our country is prohibited in public space. If you have the will go and celebrate in your household, but the Christmas festival is limited in public space because it could be offensive to Muslims. Than ban also the English National Flag (St. George's flag, red cross on white background and not the flag of Great Britain)".

Generated :
By Jack Stubbs
Disinformation about public celebrations for Christmas has been banned in an updated judgement.
The judge Simon Bridgeland issued a finding to stop the content of public celebrations such as pre-Christmas parties from attracting any adverse publicity for religious and religious reasons and therefore cannot be permitted.
The judgement was handed down last week for a decision by the Old Bailey on new rules regarding religious and religious celebrants’ activities in public places.
The original ruling made on November 28, 2008, gave Holy Week the OK to celebrate Christmas, Easter and Christmas Eve, with the last being held in June 2008.
But when Judge Bridgeland of the Old Bailey said he had evidence that the biggest public celebrations were usually held at a public wedding, the guidance was accepted.
We could find no evidence that the use of the term ‘civil celebrants’ was illegal. However it should not be considered a free speech expression. We urge the next instalment of guidance on this this sensitive subject to include the words:
Bridgeland said in his judgment: “No secular celebration has been permitted on the premises of a public party where of any such event, there is a guarantee the host party will be completely immune from offence or offending to the desires of the event’s organisers”.
He explained that people are prohibited from using the suffix ‘commemorators’, which is in the form of ‘pcraders’, in celebration of any holiday not related to the religion and religion.
Bridgeland also said: “the use of this word in celebration of Christmas may contain a substantial sense of exclusion and discrimination that is contrary to the dignity and importance of liberty.
“Misconceptions” refers to attitudes or beliefs that are believed to be unacceptable.
He said: “The situation is similar to the situation in the cases before it, but it does not undermine the rights of other civil celebrants.”
Bridgeland did not find any money during Holy Week celebrations to be spent on ‘faith’ bonfires, without the consultation of city centres.
He was reviewing the new guidance as the court had concluded that schools needed to ‘share’ with parents the costs of operating a political party.
He noted that it would be in keeping with the Salisbury attacks of the 1980s when sectarian tensions occurred.
He added: “There is absolutely no justification in the UK for England to have the provision and benefit of a young religious minority, in particular out-of-wedlock children, to abuse public property and to be found unacceptable.”
Two election tickets were held to young Londoners in the most dedicated religious category at Edinburgh Academy.
