Title : Two million: Germany records largest influx of immigrants in 2015

Original :
Germany's statistics office has recorded the highest number of immigrants in post war history. Net immigration increased by 49 percent in 2015 and for the first time most of the arrivals were not from Europe.
A queue at Berlin's registry office for migrants, known as Lageso
Berlin's Lageso offices are processing major backlogs in asylum applications
The Federal Statistics Office on Monday announced that it recorded the country's highest net immigration of foreign nationals to Germany in 2015, totaling over 1.1 million for the year.
"Net migration of foreign people amounted to 1.14 million. This is the highest net immigration of foreigners ever recorded in the history of the Federal Republic of Germany," said a statement from the statistics office.
The figure marks a 49-percent increase compared to 2014, which witnessed a net migration of 577,000 people.
The office registered in 2015 under two million immigrants arriving in Germany, while 860,000 departed again.
The figures are based on the numbers from January to August 2015 and estimates for the four remaining months of the year.
For the first time immigrants from non-European countries outnumbered those from Europe.
Controversial deal
The announcement comes as Germany and other European countries struggle to cope with an influx of irregular migrants and refugees, many fleeing war-torn countries in the Middle East, Asia and Africa.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel has dismissed efforts to cap the amount of refugees seeking protection in Germany, a move that placed her at odds with several allied lawmakers.
The EU on Friday finalized a controversial deal with Ankara that allows authorities to return all migrants entering the 28-nation bloc illegally via Turkey.
"The most important part of this deal is that it will end the business model of people smugglers and contribute to securing the EU's external border," Merkel said at a press conference following the agreement.
However, human rights watchdog Amnesty International slammed the agreement, saying it marked a "dark day for Europe and a dark day for humanity."

Generated :
FREMONT (Reuters) - One million German foreigners arrived in the country in 2015, outpacing other European countries including France and Greece but coming under threat from al Qaeda who have attacked Islamic State targets on its way to Europe and the United States.
Passengers wait to board trains at Frankfurt airport in Frankfurt February 25, 2016. REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach
The migrants arrived within a decade of the end of the Cold War, easing nearly 10 percent of Germany’s total entry quota in 2014, Statistics Germany said on Thursday.
The year marks the first time Germany, its most prosperous part since reunification in 1947, had fewer migrants compared with other European Union nations.
Net migration rose by 1.8 million, including nearly 6,000 in the first quarter of 2016, the federal statistics office said, adding that it was under the control of new arrivals.
Europe’s migration flow needs to be accompanied by a deep structural strengthening, as Great Britain did in 2015. Britain was the hardest hit by the migrant influx and it stood at a new record of 134,507, 333,000 to occur in 2016.
Tensions were not the only thing holding them back: Germany’s proposed budget for 2017-2021 must be trimmed to help bring in more immigrants. But it should be taken as a concrete gesture to Germany and the EU, which has been following Europe towards a deeper integration into a single union.
Germany, along with France, followed Britain’s example by giving asylum to tens of thousands of people in the past decade - mainly Muslim immigrants with ties to the Aryan, Kurdish or Muslim minorities in France.
Much to Germany’s dismay, Calais lost more than half of its capacity for welcoming refugees by last year alone and could face mass violent attacks from migrants.
But its mainly German economic base is believed to have helped to boost the overall influx of foreign arrivals.
Europe’s largest exporter of manufactured goods, Germany saw its economy jump 7.6 percent in 2015 compared with the previous year, according to the Geneva-based International Monetary Fund.
German GDP in 2015 grew by 4.8 percent, Europe’s largest, and finished with 1.8 percent growth, the highest among all EU countries, on the back of a weaker economy in Germany.
But until 2015, most of the net migration remained in Germany. The figure is much higher due to temporary visa restrictions, temporary evacuations and civil war in Syria. The government’s estimate is that about 450,000 more migrants came through Greece last year than it said it would arrive in 2016.
Other surveys say that about 500,000 more were displaced due to war in Syria, worsening overcrowding in Greece and Macedonia.
