Title : The Biggest Music Stories of 2017 (So Far)

Original :
Speaking about music, 2016 was a beautiful, bountiful year. It's not often that you have almost every titan in pop music let loose full-length projects, and watch so many new promising rookies emerge. So, logic would suggest that 2017 would have to be quiet. But, if anything, things have ramped up.
There are a few possible reasons for this. Some of this year's excellence is the result of the streaming economy, which is still coming into its own and undeniably quickening the metabolism of the music industry. (See: Calvin Harris, who has tried to take advantage of this.) Some are personal, like Drake's return to form in the wake of the record-breaking but artistically disappointing leviathan that was Views. Or Future's calculated run of dominance following his thrilling double release. Some are just timing, like the return of Kendrick Lamar, who was right on schedule for a new album—an album that just happens to be the best of the year.
Now, at the midpoint of the year, we're looking at the biggest music stories of 2017. Here's what's been happening.
Drake Returns to Form
The pressure was on. Drake, disappointed with the critical maligning of Views—his most commercially successful project to date—wanted another hit. Another album that would own the charts, yes, but also reaffirm that he's not just the most marketable, but also in conversation for the best doing it. So, he announced a "playlist," called More Life. Then he delayed it. And delayed it again. And again.
By the time 2017 rolled around, the anticipation had curdled into a sort of morbid fascination—the rumors coming out were vague at best, unpromising at worst. Delays are never a good sign. Then, on his OVO Sound show on Beats 1 in March, Drake unleashed More Life.
The result is a sprawling epic of an album (sorry, playlist). Equal parts gorgeous and menacing, Drake pulled sounds and styles from around the globe to make a collection of music that isn't cohesive in any way, shape, or form, but does prove that Drake is a chameleon; no matter what he tries his hand at, he's more likely than anyone else in the world to succeed at it. On "Do Not Disturb," Drake gets personal, then lets us in on his plans—the 6 God is taking a break (thought not one that involves sitting out the upcoming DJ Khaled album). He'll likely own the year with this record, but we won't be getting more music out of him. See you in 2018. —Brendan Klinkenberg
The Ruler’s Back
On March 2, the Australian Queen of the Teens gave us the green light to reacquaint ourselves with those adolescent exuberances. (I’m old now.) After a four-year hiatus, the singer-songwriter who topped the charts with “Royals” in 2013, is returning with a new album, Melodrama (out now). (The great painting of Lorde that serves as the artwork is from Brooklyn artist Sam McKinnis; he’s rad.) For this LP, she’s working with Jack Antonoff, of fun. and bleachers, and they’re drawing energy from adult contemporary god Don Henley. I’m in. —Ross Scarano
Fyre Fest Is 2017’s Biggest Disaster
Yikes, where to begin with this one. Fyre Festival, was marketed as a luxury music festival that was to take place on the Bahamian island of Great Exuma over two weekends in April and May. What occurred on its first weekend was far from luxurious.
The festival-goers that could actually make it to the island (many were stranded in Miami) expecting villas and gourmet meals were instead treated to FEMA-esque tents and now much-ridiculed cheese sandwiches. The grounds lacked every basic amenity, and the conditions were close to dangerous.
It quickly came to light that the festival was organized by Fyre Media founder Billy McFarland and rapper Ja Rule (who knows), and promoted on Instagram by social media influencers and models like Kendall Jenner and Bella Hadid. On the surface, Fyre Fest looked like a frat bro’s dream vacation. In reality, it was a disaster, and the organizers will paying for it. In the wake of Fyre Fest a new lawsuit seems to arrive weekly, each variations on the same question: was this a con gone bad, or the most incompetently executed festival ever to exist? —Nora-Grayce Orosz
Miley Is Country
Miley Cyrus is having a crisis. In an interview with Billboard, she explained why she's retreating from the black signifiers she adopted to transgress and grow up, to return to a more folky creative place. She said, "That's what pushed me out of the hip-hop scene a little. It was too much 'Lamborghini, got my Rolex, got a girl on my cock'—I am so not that." Hmm.
Once again a white artist scapegoats black music. Miley used hip-hop to get some street cred to appeal to a different audience, but it didn’t work out how she wanted and so now she’s back to being a wholesome country white girl who’s drug free and doesn’t twerk. Got it. We don't need it. —Angel Diaz
Ariana Grande and Manchester
On May 22nd, Ariana Grande’s concert in Manchester, England erupted into chaos when a large bang was heard from inside the arena. What began as an innocent night of fun for all turned into a gruesome nightmare in an instant. The bang that was heard turned out to be a bomb that was set off in a premeditated act of terrorism. The bomb was detonated in the foyer of the massive arena in order to target large crowds exiting the stadium. Twenty-two concert-goers lost their lives and 59 were critically injured from the blast, including young children.
In the aftermath of the horrific attack, the people of Manchester came together in inspiring ways to help the victims and those left stranded at the arena. Cab drivers offered free rides to families and teens seeking refuge from the site, nearby hotels offered displaced children a place to stay until they could locate their guardians, and even strangers online utilized social media to reach out in offering help using hashtags. Ariana Grande sent her thoughts via Twitter after most of the commotion had died down, revealing that she was “heartbroken,” and, “at a loss for words.”
Grande’s management revealed shortly after that she would be suspending the remainder of her tour--she was scheduled to perform at the O2 Arena in London on the 25th, but would be holding a free benefit concert for the city of Manchester to help the victims and families devastated by the bombing. The benefit, “One Love Manchester” took place on June 3rd and acted as both a healing experience and an act of defiance. Fellow friends and high-profile musicians Miley Cyrus, Katy Perry, Coldplay and Pharrell Williams performed, and the benefit united a city in mourning. In the wake of tragedy, attendees showed that they would not let this senseless act of violence dictate how they lived their lives. They would not be broken, they would continue to enjoy the music that made them feel alive. —Nora-Grayce Orosz


Generated :
Hip-hop has become a pop culture phenomenon, a form of entertainment that speaks to a far-flung little black-and-white world. Perhaps this is why so many rappers of recent years have maintained an outspoken place on the underground music scene, building off of a previously cozy niche in other culture. But this wasn’t always the case, as hip-hop artists were regularly marginalized by society and media. Here are five of our favorite stories of 2017 and each artist has created an experience around them that continues to shape our lives over the years.
It’s a Stormy’s and Civilia’s Dream
Springer Shelly Frazier and Adam Sandler were briefly linked by Hurricane Irma, and now have taken much of their #FutureGenesis fandom to a whole new level. First appearing in Bravo’s Little Shop of Horrors, and then getting already off screen during Harvey, over a Spank Daddy video where the actress even gets engaged to Sandler’s real-life wife, Zendaya. Be sure to check out all the backstage photos from the epic 2017 Atlantic Studios concert.
Cities Divided
Sometimes, being on the outside of a small circle of people is exhilarating, especially when you’re like, “Okay, there’s a truckload of people driving around with boats full of lobsters … caged animals from the tides,” you’re thinking, “Oh yeah, they’re from the Titanic.” Who’s to say there aren’t some great moments to celebrate? Despite being a small town within a short radius of Los Angeles, Orlando and Pompano Beach, Florida, present the only urban countries in the world where environmentalism is divisive. One of the country’s wittiest efforts to join in the fight to keep our streets free of illegal drugs went viral in 2016, but the feel-good nature of the campaign has taken a toll on the city’s image and the cops on the scene—many finding themselves humiliated and disowned.
Freedom Still Active in the United States
In the 10th year of Ferguson, Missouri, someone could have easily said that white Americans gave in in order to get the attention of a black person in Washington, D.C. The majority of black people in the nation’s capital still lack the same level of respect for a straight white liberal community; if there was a systematic public condemnation of racial inequality, there was no doubt that some people stood on principle and shared the narrative with the minority community in order to press forward. Not anymore. Instead, protests, assassinations, and even a terrorist attack began to be shut down; now a group of victims in Ferguson, Missouri, are too frightened and unprotected to gather in front of the White House, where mass protests are constantly happening. Not to mention Ferguson’s unrest, breaking from a broad-based reconciliation, allowed the victims to heal as they felt comfortable without fear of imprisonment.
Brock Turner Isn’t a Senator, But He Has Promised
Ohio State star Troy Turner, an innocent college student who ended up in federal prison after beating his wife unconscious, lost his seat in Congress due to his misdemeanor conviction in the city of Cleveland. Because of that, we can only imagine what his future political prospects may look like in Ohio. Being in an impeachment process allows the offending members of Congress to escape personal accountability, as Turner’s conviction brought a halt to a landmark campaign against the Washington, D.C.’s fiercest criminals. Though Turner was cleared of any wrongdoing by a grand jury, he was later charged with civil rights abuses and had his Twitter account suspended because of an alleged cover-up of a romantic incident. In keeping with the real hope that Turner stands for, Chicago’s Nicole Holder prosecuted Turner for perjury, but she won’t be bringing justice to the woman who was beaten. Owing to the victim’s fear that the harassment may turn into a protracted prison sentence, she withdrew from the race in favor of reaching out to some young people of color.
—Written by Jessica Nathan
