Title : Indian universities to offer online degrees

Original :
Indian universities will officially be allowed to develop and deliver their own online degrees for the first time after officials announced a reversal of the government’s year-long ban on the practice.
Indian universities will be allowed to enter the world of online delivery, after a government reversed its ban on the practice. Photo: PexelsIndian universities will be allowed to enter the world of online delivery, after a government reversed its ban on the practice. Photo: Pexels
Share this:
About Anton Crace
Anton is an award-winning international education journalist and author from Australia. He has worked within the industry since 2011 and writes extensively on events throughout the Asia Pacific. In his spare time, he’s watching rugby, cricket or basketball.
The ban began when several providers began offering online degrees despite regulators not recognising them
The decision will see higher education providers rated A+ under the National Assessment and Accreditation Council, roughly 15% of Indian universities, eligible to deliver online degrees, allowing them to tap into a new market of remote students and executives who can’t attend regular class times.
“Online teaching has a bright future in India as Indian universities have not enough resources to cater growing demand”
“We are creating an enabling environment where not just students but working executives can study and earn a degree without travelling the distance,” human resource development minister Prakash Javadekar said during the announcement.
Importantly, the announcement specifies that only non-technical degrees could be taken entirely online, meaning it is likely students considering an engineering or science degree will still be required to study on campus, while business and accounting students can choose to go online. Clarity on this point will come soon, according to officials.
“In a month or so, the rules will be finalised. [Higher education regulator] University Grants Commission is working on it,” said higher education secretary Kewal Kumar Sharma.
AEERI general secretary Rupesh Patel said the decision was a good move on the part of the government as India seeks to cater to more students seeking a tertiary education, but didn’t think there would be a significant impact on students going abroad.
“[There’s a] possibly negligible effect as the students going abroad prefer classroom learning,” he said.
“I personally believe the students that opt for full online degrees are different. However online teaching has a bright future in India as Indian universities have not enough resources to cater growing demand through just classroom learning.”
The decision to allow providers to deliver courses online sees a reversal of a December 2016 outright ban, implemented in response to a growing number of institutions providing online programs that were not recognised by UGC.
The higher education regulator consistently refused to recognise online degrees, yet, some institutions, such as the Karnataka State Open University, chose to continue to do so to keep up with international market trends.
India currently represents the second largest cohort of international students globally.

Generated :
Narendra Modi addressing students at the Class XII exams at a Delhi government school.
Accenture, which runs the Indian Institute of Management in Hyderabad, New Delhi and other AIIMS colleges, has announced that its flagship graduate course for students and faculty will be launched this year. In an official release, the company said it had launched the Career Centres online, because industry shift is taking place across all sectors.
The job centres, which employ professionals in universities, where the new courses are offered, will be built in students’ homes, generating customer feedback through forums and appointment confirmation, the release said.
Meanwhile, Gurgaon-based partner firm Embassy Brokers Limited, which set up three former nationalities in the past two years for telecommunication companies, is set to announce one year-long offer on its online degree, which is for teaching/learning. This term, this will be run in three weeks-long sessions at AIIMS and 10 AIIMS colleges in eastern Delhi.
The offer will be open to people from three nationalities or other nationalities and around 150 people are required to be applicants. After that, 24 such courses will be launched, the release said. Gurgaon-based Embassy Brokers had acquired the domain in February 2017.
The company is setting up three sets of centres at five H-5+ colleges in Delhi and NCR, and the six colleges of Delhi government, four in Delhi-NCR and three each in UP and Haryana. They are Piyush Modi and Hindustan Unilever; Rajesh Arora, Ashok Niwas, Eureka Deshpande and Sudarshan Kumar, who joined Embassy Brokers in 2017; Bharat Wajjar, which won the BBC award, and Kishore Srivastava, a recruiter with DM18 Securities in January 2017.
The policy has been announced in a letter signed by Global Partner Grant Director Jeffrey Ward and Executives CEO Vivek Kant and Sundar Srivastava. The four would be chosen for key areas, such as technical management, human resources, infrastructure and entrepreneurship, the release said.
Vivek Kant had earlier invested Rs 100 crore to bring five companies together in February 2017.
