Title : Three Missouri Schools Recognized by Green Ribbon Schools Program

Original :
The U.S. Department of Education announced on Thursday that three Missouri schools were chosen as part of the 2017 Green Ribbon Schools program. McKelvey Elementary School (Maryland Heights), Parkway North High School (St. Louis) and Maplewood Richmond Heights Middle School (Maplewood) are being honored for their innovative efforts to reduce environmental impact and utility costs, improve health and wellness, and ensure effective sustainability education.
“The students and staff in these schools have made great strides to better themselves and their local community,” said Commissioner of Education Margie Vandeven. “Their dedication to creating a healthy and active learning environment is worthy of this national recognition.”
A total of 45 schools, nine districts, and nine postsecondary institutions from across the country were recognized as part of this year’s national program. The recognition award is part of a U.S. Department of Education effort to identify and communicate practices that result in improved student engagement, academic achievement, graduation rates, and workforce preparedness, and it reinforces federal efforts to increase energy independence and economic security.

Generated :
MADISON, Mo. – Two universities, Southwest Missouri State University (ESMUSL) and Gardner A. Rockefeller Community Schools (GARDEN) are schools of faith.
Today, Congress introduced the Green Ribbon Schools Program (GRI), named for the Girl Scouts of America National Eagle Scout campaign by President Barack Obama and approved by Congress. The Green Ribbon Schools Program provides schools worldwide with mentoring of girls and youth from underrepresented communities, including transgender youth, Native American youth, LGBT youth, disabled youth, minority youth, incarcerated youth, non-violent offenders, schools with LGBT students, and programs in schools with teens using prayer and mentor techniques, including Green Ribbon Schools.
“Disruptive youth and youth who are focused on excellence compete and thrive,” said Mary Monroe, President of Gardner A. Rockefeller. “Our mission is to provide girls and youth with the skills they need to succeed.”
Students at Gardner A. Rockefeller Community Schools will benefit from an internship program to build leadership and mentoring skills for pre-teen girls. On May 2, Gardner A. Rockefeller Community Schools will host a Green Ribbon Camp. The five-day camp will train girls to find their voice through positive role models and future employers. Volunteers with a Green Ribbon Camp during the camp will work through summer lessons in three collaborative learning activities: Hands-on and Working with Children, and Cognitive Behavior Interventions and Practices. During the camp, local and state officials will work with GARDEN to ensure high schools and youth with ADHD are ready for success. Youth who have those skills will help improve their application to professionals.
GARDEN faculty and staff at Gardner A. Rockefeller Community Schools will receive ESMUS scholarships. ESMUS scholarships are available to a distinguished individual or school community member based on the high level of parental involvement.
In addition to the scholarships, Gardner A. Rockefeller Community Schools receives the SAMACHRIT Award, an annual award honoring creativity and hard work by teachers. At each of the five LEARN STAR STAR®® academies in the LEARN STAR® network, Gardner A. Rockefeller Community Schools offers an enriched learning experience for students and their parents. The LEARN STAR® model, also known as “Play Out the Rules” and “See Your Mind Out the Rules,” incorporates mentoring and academic research into the learning experience. LEARN STAR® partners with Gardner A. Rockefeller Community Schools to provide opportunities for gifted and talented students to better use their STEM skills, learning and development opportunities. The LEARN STAR® model is designed to engage, inspire and empower individuals with STEM skills, challenge their intellects, develop specific skills in specializations, and meet the challenge of shifting daily life in ways to life directly with their students.
MSU, on the other hand, is a pioneer of a Gender Equity in Education model that values equity in education and practices it as the key to achieving an inclusive, equitable and lasting school environment. It empowers young people with the skills and skills they need to succeed, and it supports the human, social and gender roles integral to a school’s diversity and graduation rate. MSU and Gardner A. Rockefeller Community Schools offer various support services to their students and families.
The Green Ribbon Schools Program was established in 2011 by President Obama and vice president Jill Biden. President Trump signed into law legislation recognizing the Green Ribbon Schools Program in 2011. Schools of faith and progressive schools across the country across the country will be collaborating to provide mentoring, safety, and support to LGBTQ and transgender youth in classrooms, as well as local youth, ending discrimination that allows those students to be scared, discouraged, uncertain, and victimized.
