Title : Immigration to Germany in 2014 at highest level in two decades

Original :
Net immigration into Germany last year hit its highest level since 1992, the Statistics Office said on Thursday (3 September), with expectations that figure will rise this year to 800,000.
Roughly 550,000 more people moved to Germany last year than left, and the majority were from Europe, mostly from Poland. Relatively liberal asylum laws and generous benefits making Germany the EU’s biggest recipients of people seeking asylum.
This year numbers are likely to be swelled by people from the Middle East and Africa, tens of thousands of whom are making perilous journeys by land and sea to escape war.
Economic migrants from southeastern Europe, included 13 percent more from Italy last year while arrivals from Spain and Greece fell 26 percent and 29 percent respectively.
There were also strong rises from eastern European countries such as Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia.
Some 363,000 asylum seekers claimed benefits in 2014, with about 38 percent from Europe and the same amount from Asia, and 19 percent alone from the former states of Yugoslavia, such as Serbia, Kosovo and Montenegro.
There was also a more than doubling of the number of claimants from Syria, who made up 11 percent of the total. The biggest increase was claimants from Eritrea – three times the number compared with the previous year.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel has described coping with the influx of asylum seekers as Europe’s biggest challenge. She has also warned about a rise in hostility towards foreigners in Germany given almost daily attacks on shelters.
A poll on Wednesday (2 September) showed support for Merkel and her party slipping due to the crisis.
EU leaders have agreed on the outlines of a two-year plan to deal with unprecedented numbers of migrants fleeing the Middle East and Africa.
But implementing the system to resettle or relocate 60,000 refugees is proving to be highly contentious at a time of rising anti-immigration parties in Europe. Many countries, including France and Germany, do not reject the idea of burden-sharing for refugees, but contend that the European Commission's proposed quota system needs to be reworked.
EU leaders argued through the night at a summit in June over the plan, wary of taking in migrants and reflecting deep national rivalries that the bloc's cooperation is supposed to transcend. They have set December as the latest deadline to agree final numbers.

Generated :
FRANKFURT (Reuters) - The head of Germany’s central bank has suggested the country’s entire work force could take part in an international network monitoring and mobilising the influx of migrants.
Bernard Häfer, who was chair of the bank’s monetary policy committee until May, said on Thursday that agents in front of Germany were investing in border barriers and guarding their offices across the world, boosting German exports in a country marked by volatile business relations with the European Union.
“What is most important ... is that it is easy,” Häfer told RTL radio. “I would like to say that the migration has come to Germany in some way ... we are... talking of billion one year arrivals,” he said.
Germany’s economy grew by 4.7 percent last year, its slowest pace in two decades.
But economic indicators are pointing to a slow start to 2016, with Germany’s manufacturing recovery now slow and unemployment at just 1.7 percent compared with its level before the financial crisis in 2008.
One possible reason, Häfer said, might be the relatively high cost of Britain’s divorce from the European Union.
The risk of a Brexit and a slump in German exports could hurt prospects for the European Union, with Germany at the World Economic Forum’s annual Davos gathering in January where members of the world’s biggest economies chatted about trade, tax policy and migration issues.
