Title : Slade and Wizzard's 1973 Christmas rivalry resumes

Original :
In 1973, Wizzard and Slade were two of the biggest bands in the UK- one from Birmingham, the other from Wolverhampton - and both were battling it out in December for the highly prized Christmas number one.
Forty years later and the battle seemed to resume with Wizzard lead singer Roy Wood and Slade performing at different venues in Birmingham, a few hundred yards apart, on the same night.
Between them that year, they had five number ones and released two of the biggest Christmas hits of all time.
In the end Slade won the chart battle and got to the Christmas number one slot.
Band members Don Powell and Dave Hill said it was recorded during a boiling hot summer in New York in 1973.
Roy Wood, from Wizzard, said: "Neither of us knew the other was doing a Christmas song. Strange.
"Any other year, it would've been great."

Generated :
Percolating in the walls of Wizzard's Watson Hall is a bewildering collection of sketches, letters and photographs from the 1948 film, Three Clones.
There's one from the time when Slade turned his attention to Wizzard - in the corner of a dark sofa he immediately found himself gushing about the man from Moscow, a man the younger Wizzard claimed was the first secretary of the military who'd ever been in conflict with Slade.
But in the screenplay you are given no other notes.
At the time of Wizzard's casting in 1973, the hero and slasher film, which sold more than $70m in North America, was doing well in the UK and I think seeing Wizzard's work as a member of the Public Theater would be par for the course.
A Sad Final Season May Have Been Cut Down For Slade and Vere's Christmas Slave.
Wizzard first hosted the pep rally for Wizzard at Wizzard's Watson Hall in 1974 and then after then disguised himself as the prostitute in a dream-like Christmas carol-filled episode of The Queen Of Slade.
It was choreographed by Jim Gourley and Emily Carty and was never performed in public (though the producers saw it and gave it an airing).
Titles include Fantastical Holiday Greetings, A Girl Through Winter, Bloodborn Frosted-Up and Polar Bear Models.
It's only got a single song and a short starring role, however, in the film, with Slade's fake actress Teresa Palmer playing the evil 16-year-old who escapes the arch.
According to Wizzard's sketches, Alice, The Mistress Mistress and The First Inspector General will be known as the perfect partners for their children's dance lessons.
Wizzard was given the position after Slade died - but the director has long maintained that it was someone he considered a family friend.
Killing Hessman, Wizzard loved 'em so much that, when Woody Harrelson famously started working on The Man Who Came In Rainbows while he was at Warner Bros, the rest of the cast and crew joined his.
'In the end, you're a grown man - we've made you a huge part of our lives for all time,' Wizzard told fans in 2009.
'But it was a role you gave me - your Dad was me on Big Love, you went to Sesame Street and picked up the first Kate Bush and then picked up the whole thing. I've never seen you rehearse with Woody and Amy.'
