Title : Immigration Emerging As Top Issue In 2016

Original :
The Obama administration's move to deport Central American families who have not complied with removal orders has immigration advocates seething — and has placed 2016 Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton in an awkward position.
A spokeswoman for Clinton said the former secretary of state "has real concerns about these reports." As immigration advocate Frank Sharry, president of America's Voice, told The Washington Post: "She'll have to choose between protecting refugees from Central America — a demand of the Latino community — or standing with the law-and-order position of Obama and Republicans."
The proposed deportations, first reported in the Post last week, are to take place as the number of Central Americans crossing the border into the United States has spiked. Part of the administration's response to the arrival of some 100,000 Central Americans in 2014 was to build family detention centers, where migrant children who had arrived with a parent were held, in some cases for more than a year.
A judge ruled this past summer that the administration's approach violated standards for holding underage migrants. Earlier this month, the administration filed a motion with the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals to expedite its appeal of that ruling. As things stand now, the appeal will not be heard until 2017.
Meanwhile, two of President Obama's moves benefiting migrants who lack long-term legal residency could be imperiled. Republican presidential candidates — including Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, who historically has been supportive of immigration overhaul — have said they would end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, if they win the White House next year. DACA allows certain immigrants who entered the country illegally before age 16 a chance to apply for temporary legal status.
On Nov. 20, 2014, the president announced the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Legal Permanent Residents, or DAPA, which would give similar benefits to parents in the U.S. illegally. A district court judge in Texas issued a hold on the executive action; in May, the United States Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit rejected the administration's appeal of that ruling. It is unclear whether the Supreme Court will hear the administration's appeal in time for a ruling by the summer of 2016.

Generated :
There is mounting concern in Europe about the future of EU immigration policies, but it is little surprise that immigration across the continent will start to rise again this year. That is according to the annual Migration Observatory Conference on Migration, organised by the British Border Agency (BBA).
In a conference meeting titled Migration in 2016: Governments Significantly Change their Immigration Policy, the panel at the conference highlighted that in 2017, around 42% of migrants will end up in Europe. And 60% of the migrants who leave the EU after the departure of their visa are subsequently brought here.
Removing EU migration as a priority is a positive step for Europe’s faltering development. When it comes to the problem of uncontrolled migration, how can our British border management be improved? In 2019, 2015 and 2016, the BBA has said that the number of arrivals by EU migrants in Britain will continue to grow in line with overall migration. This is because EU migration has been dropping faster than overall migration.
But it has become clear that all the changes at the border must happen through immigration. Labour did not support the supposed tightening of the border defences of the EU countries to protect the prosperity of Britain’s EU citizens.
As everyone has points of view, the UK may well have enough control of our borders to secure its borders against any potential foreign invasion. A shift in this opinion can be expected in the next two years, should nothing else get in the way.
Furthermore, British and EU immigration quotas, the difference between the number of migrants who come from abroad and those who are citizens, must change as well. The British are not bound by EU immigration quotas, and far from wanting to draw them into their borders. But they don’t want to see EU migration (particularly migrants from Eastern Europe) turning towards themselves.
The BBA’s concerns are based on the fact that immigration from outside of EU countries has risen 30% year on year from 1980 to 2014, but the underlying level of immigration is still too high to allow a claim of 300,000 asylum seekers each year to hit the EU’s asylum quota.
Refugees are not welcome in Britain, as well as for some citizens, because they are not recognised as UK citizens. The BBA argues that, in general, people from outside EU countries are not welcome. Over 80% of asylum seekers are genuine refugees.
Any changes to EU immigration policies will need to happen regularly and decisively. All too often, this will be achieved by the right’s choices.
Commenting on Migration in 2016, Nick Bain, an expert on migration and EU policy at the British Border Agency, said: “2016 is a banner year for immigration, and for all migrants and refugees alike. 2014’s wave of asylum seekers saw a 7% increase in arrivals but not for every asylum seeker. This year, that is underlined in the scale of the challenges we are facing.
“Whether it is sending millions of asylum seekers to the top of the scale, opening up new legal avenues of entry to illegal migration, or allowing free movement of EU citizens, the immigration debate needs to be of paramount importance.”
The Conference is co-sponsored by the British Border Agency, the Department for Work and Pensions, Foreign Office and the public affairs department. The conference is open to the public and takes place from 9am on Saturday 31 December. There will be leaflets at every event. This event is free to attend, but registration is required. To register visit: www.bba.org.uk
