Title : Germany's Gauck urges welcome for refugees in Christmas speech

Original :
Germany's president has called for refugees to be welcomed in a speech due to be broadcast on Christmas Day.
Joachim Gauck also praised Germans who have sheltered and cared for around 200,000 new refugees this year.
Many see his message as an indirect attack on a new anti-immigration group called Patriotic Europeans against the Islamisation of the West, or Pegida.
It has been running weekly rallies in Dresden since October. On Monday, a record 17,500 people took part.
Counter-demonstrations
Mr Gauck urged Germans "not to be afraid" of the world around them and said he was encouraged by those who do not "want to seal Germany off".
"Where we can contribute to maintaining peace or alleviate suffering so that we can build a better future, then we should do everything in our power to do so," he added.
Although Pegida has seen a surge in support, several counter-demonstrations have also taken place.
Chancellor Angela Merkel and other senior politicians have spoken out against the Pegida rallies.
Germany has become Europe's main destination for asylum-seekers, many of whom are from Muslim-majority countries such as Syria and Iraq.
Thousands of Germans have also taken in refugees privately, Reuters reports.

Generated :
BERLIN (AFP) - Germany's chancellor Angela Merkel admitted on Tuesday that the fight against terrorism was one of Europe's top goals, but offered no handout or financial support.
Merkel urged Germans to welcome refugees and said Germany has a "core responsibility" for immigrants.
"I'm not going to pretend that the fight against terrorism is acceptable," she told a party conference.
"It is an important - albeit paradoxical - international security challenge that we have to face.
"Over the last 25 years, Germany has managed to reduce migration from the land of the common man. Not only did it prevent much of this, but also rid ourselves of many terrorism in the European and international community."
Merkel made the announcement as she embarked on a speech to the country's parliament to mark the death of a judge who the conservatives say oversaw a botched emergency asylum transfer system.
Judges Cleaid Meyssen and Paul Catledge, married for 10 years, were among those killed in an air crash in northern France that has stoked fears about the extent of Europe's own crisis.
Germany has deported more than 11,000 refugees since October 2014, mainly to the countries of Syria and Iraq.
But the total is still low in comparison with its neighbours France and Hungary, which manage fewer asylum seekers than Germany and have issued bans against large-scale border checks.
"The entire European community is crying out for help," Merkel said.
"So I believe that we cannot wait for the refugees to come, that we should provide them with security."
Germany's open border with France and Hungary makes contact difficult, with some offering migrants protection without making them refugees.
The race to find a solution to Europe's refugee crisis has been a hot one for Merkel and her centre-right coalition government, which is heavily opposed to taking in more refugees.
Immigration among refugees has risen rapidly and is common in northern Europe - with France launching similar attempts last week, shortly after France's nationalist far-right leader Marine Le Pen triggered an upsurge in violence in Europe.
In southern Europe, France has relaxed some regulations on boat arrivals in a bid to stem the flow.
Although there have been no attacks this year, air violence in France is now on the rise, with a "bad weather" warning issued on Friday against anyone heading north.
The number of air strikes in Iraq by the coalition has been well over 100 since June, according to statistics from the International Organisation for Migration.
Date created : 2014-12-24
