Title : Philippines Was Top Source Country For New Immigrants To Canada In 2014

Original :
More than 40,000 Filipinos became permanent residents of Canada in 2014, making the Philippines the top source country for Canadian immigration last year. The Philippines had previously been the top source country in 2012, with China having been the top source country in 2013.
Canada also issued nearly 47,000 visitor visas to Filipinos in 2014, a 56 percent increase since 2006.
The number of new permanent residents from the Philippines is up from 14,004 in 2004, a near three-fold increase in just one decade. Many of the Filipino newcomers originally came to Canada under the Live-In Caregiver Program, now simply the Caregiver Program after modifications made last November. The government of Canada’s immigration plan for 2015 states that it aims to convert between 26,000 and 30,000 caregivers to permanent resident status this year.
In just a few short decades, Canada’s Filipino community has grown to become one of the country’s largest immigrant demographics. The more than 700,000 people of Filipino descent in Canada make up one of the country’s larger diaspora communities, and this number is increasing constantly. Filipino workers in Canada are important to both the Canadian and Philippine economies. While workers in Canada help to fill important labour shortages, families and friends in the Philippines benefit from remittances sent from Canada.
About half of Canada’s Filipino population lives in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA), with Vancouver hosting the second-largest Filipino population in Canada and Winnipeg also home to a large number of Filipinos.
“Oftentimes, individuals will first come to Canada as temporary workers, leaving spouses and children behind. But many Filipinos have also worked hard to bring their immediate families to Canada. Once permanent residence is achieved, they are then able to reunite with their families in Canada,” says Attorney David Cohen.
“Canada’s generous family sponsorship rules allow permanent residents to sponsor not only children and spouses, but parents and grandparents as well. These include the popular Parent and Grandparent Sponsorship Program as well as the new Super Visa Program, which offers long-term visitor visas to qualified applicants. The introduction of these family reunification programs has contributed to the upsurge in new arrivals from the Philippines.
“Within the broader Filipino community in Canada, we have observed success after success of smaller communities that have flourished across the country. The story of Filipino immigration to Canada is a story shared between a proud people and a welcoming land.”

Generated :
Photo by E.I. Duong
We recently spoke with a researcher at the government of Port Arthur, Australia (who also worked with the tobacco department of Nevada) who says, as far as immigration to Canada goes, one of the main sources of success in the country was to become a resource. New arrivals have found a lot of success within the immigration systems, as has the relationship between state leaders and citizens; working collaboratively in order to improve public health, reduce crime, and facilitate higher education and higher employment.
There is one particular state in particular where the rate of immigrants getting visas has been rising, largely because of an increase in naturalisation applications and new beneficiaries of birthright citizenship. In 2010, Ireland was the destination of approximately 40 per cent of new immigrants to Canada; in 2014, it was 47 per cent; and if immigrants in Canada pay into the country-funded Community First Peoples Charitable Scholarship Program (CEPP), there is a 30 per cent reduction in immigration, “meaning that there’s a major free flow of newly-enrolled immigrants now into Canada who are staying or travelling by boat rather than by land,” says a report in the BMJ in London, in relation to the rapid growth of new arrivals to Canada in recent years.
The sustainability of the granting of these granteeships does not alter their habit, says e.o. Duong. In 2013, Canada granted 25,000 of these granteeships to immigrants and Canadians, including 36,000 individuals from the country of residence who are dual citizens. Another number of people who gave away their entire citizenship to Canada in 2013 is that of immigrants who were not citizens themselves.
In fact, the situation is likely not quite that similar for immigrants from Canada, in an attempt to minimize the impact of new arrivals on their welfare. After all, there are certainly many more Canadians living or working here than immigrants who are doing the bulk of the work or studying or even self-employment in Canada, says the report of the research. If you had checked the CEPP’s claims from 2002 to 2010 on the number of immigrants who were estimated to have done the extensive illegal legal work, these immigrants would have been subject to a net economic hit by less than 1 per cent of these awards being to applicants without citizenship.
