Title : Japan eases immigration rules for workers

Original :
Japan's parliament has approved a controversial new law allowing hundreds of thousands of foreigners into the country to ease labour shortages.
From next April foreigners will be allowed to take up jobs in sectors such construction, farming and nursing.
Japan has traditionally been wary of immigration but the government says more foreigners are needed because of Japan's ageing population.
Opposition parties say the law risks exposing newcomers to exploitation.
Under the new system, more than 300,000 foreigners could be allowed to work in sectors facing a labour crunch.
The law creates two new visa categories. Workers in the first category will be allowed in for five years if they have a certain level of skill and some proficiency in Japanese.
The economic lessons Japan can teach the West
Trending in Japan: Restless retirees
Workers with a higher level of skills would qualify for the second visa category and would eventually be allowed to apply for residency.
The opposition has argued that an influx of foreign workers would depress wages and lead to exploitation of migrant labour.
The BBC's Rupert Wingfield-Hayes in Tokyo says the current programme of "technical training" for low-skilled foreign workers is open to abuse by unscrupulous employers.
Graphic showing how Brazil's population is ageing
Businesses in Japan have long argued for changes to immigration rules to recruit workers from other countries.
But Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has stressed the proposed law is not an overhaul of immigration policy and Japan will only accept foreigners "who have specific skills and can work immediately to address serious labour shortages, only in sectors that genuinely need them".
Japan's fertility rate dropped below 2.1 childbirths per woman - replacement level - in the 1970s and now stands at around 1.4. The country also has one of the world's longest life expectancies (85.5).

Generated :
In this July 19, 2017 file photo, employees are seen outside a Toyota truck in Tokyo.
Japan announced Wednesday that it will liberalize immigration controls for its 65 million immigrant workers by cutting out home and job registration.
The decision in a packed ceremony at the parliament comes after the country's government rejected the first batch of permits last month and instead released hundreds of applications for new visa. The quota would come into effect in January.
The move is aimed at making jobs easier for the majority of newcomers, despite predictions that the sector would be hit hard by record immigration.
The government dropped a ban on house registration, for example, after private rental companies were forced to slow down permits after complaints that overcrowding had ruined the number of people in apartments. In Japan, more than 15,000 people are registered, compared with an average of about 2,000 a month ago. The government had initially been aiming for 300,000 visas.
Japan's move is not without precedent in other Asian economies. In 2015, China phoned in 1,005,000 new permits, according to customs figures.
It was earlier announced in 2017 that the country would reduce the number of visas issued to new entrants, particularly to businesses that manage migrant workers. In the wake of the announcement, Japan's Ministry of Labor warned it was not safe for new immigrants to head to the country for work.
While Tokyo has the highest immigration rate among the 28 other Asian nations, it is the largest labor market in the world.
The Japanese cabinet said it would have taken the biggest number of applications last year, but applications will be easier since the cabinet had avoided naming companies that abuse workers' rights.
The Japan Department of Labour will also take up the issue as many employment-related offenses have been dropped.
In April, a deputy prime minister announced that 20,000 visas had been issued in March as well as 18,000 for temporary work permits and about 2,000 for full-time work permits, while Prime Minister Shinzo Abe made it clear he was pushing for more. That was seven times the maximum number of visas for workers that were received last year.
But some sectors, such as agriculture, are more vulnerable. The ministry suspended 155 foreign direct investment visas for agricultural production in December after filing a complaint with authorities after leading shareholders of the dairy giant Dairy Farmers didn't back down from a opposition demands for an investigation.
The National Development and Reform Commission is also studying additional measures to secure the country's overseas workers. It has proposed a five-fold increase in immigration from Japan to 20,000 by 2019.
