Title : Q4 growth means Canada avoided recession in 2001

Original :
The Canadian economy grew by 0.5 per cent over the final three months of 2001 meaning the country avoided a recession last year.
"This was the strongest quarterly growth in five quarters, but the weakest annual growth since 1992," Statistics Canada reported Thursday.
For all of 2001, the economy grew by 1.5 per cent, which was "less than half its pace in each of the previous four years," Statistics Canada said.
"Consumers tightened their purse strings and businesses put the brakes on investment outlays," the federal government agency said.
The positive growth in the fourth quarter meant Canada missed slipping into a recession at least by the common definition of two consecutive quarters of economic contraction. In the third quarter, Canada's economy shrank by 0.1 per cent.
Statistics Canada said consumer spending rebounded in the fourth quarter, due mainly to incentive-driven purchases of new motor vehicles.
Unseasonably mild weather and a sharp drop in mortgage rates also brought renewed strength in new housing construction and sales.
With the economic situation improving, economists don't see the Bank of Canada changing interest rates anytime soon.
"Q4 GDP was firmer than anyone thought possible just a few months ago, and 2002's outlook is improving. Still, the BoC will be in no rush to tighten with nominal GDP falling," BMO Nesbitt Burns chief economist Sherry Cooper said in a release.
TD Bank senior economist Marc Levesque said Canada's economy will continue to grow in the first half of this year, but at a much-reduced rate.
"While today's reports suggests that any talk of recession on this side of the border can now be safely discarded, the Canadian economy is unlikely to come out swinging until the second half of the year," he said.

Generated :
Canadian Q4 GDP growth was reported yesterday by Statistics Canada, adding to reports that there were few signs of weakness in the final quarter of 2001 in a sector that featured prominently in the third quarter of 2000. The data sent the Canadian currency sharply higher and the national debt to $21.8 billion, up 1.8 per cent from the third quarter of 2000, which ended Dec. 31.
According to Statistics Canada's interim report, the “proportion of consumer spending” in the fourth quarter of 2001 — 17.8 per cent — was up from the third quarter when the economy began to recede and take a dive. With the drop in consumer confidence and foreign consumption, and the largest quarterly decline in the wealth measure, year over year growth in the three months ended Dec. 31 was 0.7 per cent.
But that was a year after the first quarter, and after the second quarter of 2001, when the national debt hit $21.8 billion. That told a story, albeit one that still contained considerable uncertainty, for Canadians in the business, retail and industrial sectors. There was even some level of uncertainty about the strength of the rebound.
Striking a chord with the great Montreal Canadiens team — at least for the next few years — their “sport” to what they played for, was some hard-hitting, honed sense of camaraderie with old-timers in the Montreal dressing room. And when you factor in the distress surrounding the resignation of key players such as President Derek Boogaard, coaches, farm directors and head designers, the quality of material to worry about now will not get any easier and the public will want to know what was done for Mr. Boogaard.
The recently retired Kevin Prince was slightly more interested in that as his focus turned to Quebec. Mr. Prince could have been forgiven for thinking that the decline in Canadian growth by dropping the first month of the fourth quarter of 2001 had anything to do with the large Canadian retreat from the fiscal cliff and the significant price cuts, reductions in diesel and gasoline imports and even an upward revision in the taxes promised by the Conservatives. But again Mr. Prince turned to the hard hard work of the public in preparing his vision for the future: to help New Democrats win power at the next provincial election. But there is much more to that.
On both social and economic matters, Canada is not really at a crisis. The statistics released yesterday are extreme, in their extremes and leave out the possibility of deeper Q4 problems. Much of their story is a stanza that summarizes the Q4 narrative: that Q4 growth is what has to happen in Canada in 2001.
