Title : Aquarius ship to end migrant rescues, say MSF and SOS Méditerranée

Original :
MSF and SOS Méditerranée announced Thursday they will be ending the operations of the Aquarius migrant rescue ship, which has become a lightning rod for the controversy surrounding Europe's policies on accepting migrants.
MSF (Médecins sans frontières or Doctors Without Borders) and SOS Méditerranée announced in a joint statement that they had "brought an end" to the ship's rescue operations.
The decision was made to wind up the ship's missions because the Aquarius itself had become a target, explained Françis Vallat, president of SOS Méditerranée, in an interview with FRANCE 24 shortly after the announcement.
But he vowed that the NGOs would soon “resume our activities”.
The ships have rescued thousands of migrants from the Mediterranean as immigration continues to be a hot-button political issue across the European Union.
MSF lamented "the attacks carried out in the last 18 months by some European states" and the "grotesque claims of trafficking in waste and criminal activity" targeting both NGOs.
“All our port operations, including waste management, have always followed standard procedures,” MSF said in a statement last month. “The relevant authorities have not contested these procedures or identified a public health risk since we started our activities at sea.”
The Aquarius was at the heart of a diplomatic row in June when it became stranded with more than 600 migrants on board following a refusal by Italy and Malta to take it in.
Under a deal reached in August, 141 migrants aboard the Aquarius were distributed among France, Germany, Luxembourg, Portugal and Spain.
The ship has been repeatedly turned away by Italy and forced to stop in Malta and Spain in recent months.
Italy's far-right Interior Minister Matteo Salvini has vowed to block the Aquarius permanently from his country's ports, accusing it of offering a "taxi service" for migrants from Libya to Europe. Italy has seen more than 700,000 migrants landing on its shores since 2013.
French President Emmanuel Macron has clashed with the Italian government over the policy, accusing it of "cynicism and irresponsibility".
But Macron faced criticism at home for not offering safe haven to the Aquarius after it first became stranded in June, although France eventually offered asylum to about 80 of the rescued migrants.
The International Organization for Migration said in October that 1,741 migrants had drowned trying to cross the Mediterranean so far this year. The group estimates that about 15,000 migrants have drowned since 2013.

Generated :
During a July July 2018 stopover in the southern Italian port city of Ferrara, an unarmed civilian boat carrying 3,000 migrants was allegedly struck by a rubber dinghy. (Photo: Abwin Schmidt/Astra Altnaga via Getty Images)
FRANKFURT (Reuters) - The Greek government is evacuating a migrant boat because of its poor seaside safety, but an Italian rescue ship operating in a Balkan area has told Greek rescue groups that the ship is safe, aid agencies and the government said on Friday.
The SOS Méditerranée, an aid agency, flew to Ferrara from that port on Tuesday, but it was not immediately clear when it would leave. If it did, the aid organisation said, it was likely to return home to Italy or return there.
Based in the eastern Mediterranean island of Malta, it helps the German navy to take migrant boats through the strait between Macedonia and Greece, as well as two aid teams in mountainous and coastal terrain.
“These are the ships it calls out because these boats, along with small boats like the one I saw earlier, will help clear the migrant lines from reaching the safety of the Macedonian coast,” Sicilian Swastika Emilie Piuccola told Reuters.
“This is what has to happen.”
Reuters had previously reported that it was unsafe for the ship’s operators to operate inside Macedonia’s rugged Andaman Islands. The Italian team, which had said it was safe to operate the vessel, said they were now back in Italy.
Officials from the Bulgarian and Romanian rescue crews also said they were safely back in Greece as they were leaving Ferrara’s port, but not yet back to their primary port in Schengen.
“It is clear that the issue of the accused using the risk of physical injury or death or rescues of minor people as an excuse to reduce humanitarian assistance, will be dealt with according to international law,” Palacio of SOS MIRDieu told Reuters.
“This is a breach of Malta’s obligations on humanitarian and international law,” he said.
Italy’s foreign ministry said it had written to the Greek government requesting the evacuation of the Italian vessel, with instructions to ensure that the migrants or the boat were brought to safety.
The Italian foreign ministry said there was an emergency plan which Greek authorities should implement.
Last month, as U.N. Humanitarian Coordinator Wiebke May, tried to reassure Greek authorities, new director general Alexandros Visser said the country had no intention of striking migrant boats as it had done previously, even though it had blocked access to any vessels carrying migrants.
“This proposal is not an act of defiance by people who have been caught at sea, as everybody has said,” May told a news conference.
Ishmael Shaikh, managing director of Mercy, a network of migrants’ rights advocacy organisations in Malta, said two NGOs had already returned to their crisis centres but his organization was still monitoring the situation.
“Although they did not enter the country, it was still the responsibility of the smugglers to reunite with the migrants who arrived on their own,” he said.
A migrant with a broken leg approaches a vessel. Reuters/Marta Zazzaris
