Title : Christmas Blizzard Blows Through Oklahoma City's Snow Budget

Original :
City leaders have already spent this year's winter budget and are now looking at ways to stretch their existing resources to keep residents safe during this season's winter weather.
The winter weather has started to take a toll on the city's budget and the staffers who continue to work around the clock to clear the roadways. As another winter blast bears down on Oklahoma, city workers continue their around-the-clock shifts.
Trending Articles
The following is a list of the most commented articles in the last 7 days.
A trending article titled "Family Of Inmate Killed In Hostage Situation Says Jail Conditions To Blame For His Behavior" with 3 comments.
Family Of Inmate Killed In Hostage Situation Says Jail Conditions To Blame For His Behavior
"We're going back to run the rest of our plow routes. We're going northwest. I guess they have crews in all quadrants," said Jud Rauch, who is a street crew worker.
Rauch was one of 30 drivers waiting in line as workers dumped a salt sand mixture into his truck Tuesday. William Bryles was in the truck just ahead of him.
"Right now, we're just going out, checking a couple of spots and waiting for this next event to come in," Bryles said.
But now city officials have to become creative and find ways to make their material last through the rest of the winter.
"I have about $125,000 that I am budgeted to buy materials. I spent that in July of this year," said Mike DeGiacomo, Oklahoma City Street Superintendent.
DeGiacomo said the city wasn't prepared to deal with the 14 inches of snow last week's blizzard dumped on the metro, primarily because the city doesn't have enough trucks, and it didn't buy enough salt. Doing so would require more money, and even then there's no guarantee DeGiacomo would get it.
"I'm not the only one that's trying to restock my supply. So what we try to do is try to use the resources we've got as best we can," DeGiacomo said.
That would include mixing what DeGiacomo calls hot sand with the remaining 4,300 tons of salt to extend the supply. Crews spend their days putting the mixture together before dumping it into the 30 waiting trucks who will then spread the mixture throughout the metro.
Many cities in the metro haven't had time to calculate the dollars they've spent cleaning up the mess. The City of Edmond said it normally spends about 10 percent of its supply budget for salt and sand. However, city officials said they've already spent that money on cleaning up last week's storm.
"The snow and ice certainly takes its toll on our streets and requires asphalt and concrete to repair it. It's a double edged sword. We'll have to really be looking at the numbers and see where we come out," said Keith Stewart, Edmond Field Services Superintendent.

Generated :
Please enable Javascript to watch this video
OKLAHOMA CITY - On Christmas Eve, families in Oklahoma City started relying on friends and family -- for a down-payment, but Wednesday it turned into a nightmare.
"We're not trying to, but people of all ages were out pouring on to check on their presents," said Salvation Army Executive Director Michael Macy.
In total, around 1,000 people were helping Oklahoma City with cold weather and trying to help out families. The Salvation Army prepared thousands of pounds of groceries in the Adopt-a-Family shelter to help out poor folks.
"For New Year's Eve, we really had to walk through more than 1,000 families,” Macy said.
He and others planned to return to the shelter Saturday.
"We knew we'd work over there, as usual,” Macy said. “But, we were the only ones there.”
Macy says the snowstorm ruined their mission and ruined thousands of dollars of Christmas gifts.
"We're always waiting for the storm to pass,” Macy said. “But, this one will most likely not."
For more information about shelters in Oklahoma City, there's info at:
City Rescue, OU Trauma Center, Commercial Mail Drop-off, ISD Central Rescue, Office of the State Fire Marshal
