Title : Tasmanians enjoy white Christmas

Original :
The chill on Hobart's Mount Wellington yesterday did not deter people who wanted to experience a white Christmas.
Scores drove to the peak to play in the snow, as the temperature dropped to a low of minus two.
The Bureau of Meteorology says temperatures around the state on Christmas Day were between five and 11 degrees below average - 13 in Hobart and for Launceston, 18.
Hobart's snow-peaked mountain proved a big attraction for families.
"Thirty-one degrees one day and now one degrees today, unbelievable, snow on Christmas Day, it's fabulous," said one reveller.
The snow was also a novelty for visitors from the northern hemisphere.
"Well, we booked this holiday from the UK expecting really warm weather in Australia, and here we are having one of our only ever white Christmases."
It was warmest on the east coast, where the temperature reached 19 at St Helens and Scamander.

Generated :
Tomorrow’s white Christmas in Tasmania was welcome by thousands of Australians, along with a patriotic backdrop to the fall holiday in the city. Part of the celebration was held at a garden centre in Christchurch, which, if preserved in all its historic significance, as tourist sites, it makes the arrival too heart-warming for anyone else.
The extra-monumental lighting ceremony – the tableau of a lower class family arriving in a white, grey duffel by the early 19th century – bore a strong similarity to the festivities one might expect to see in many western countries last Christmas.
Scouring for coloured books on the island, the island’s police and police officers chose to make the most of the final day. Beyond the hilltop photography photographs made by the officers, there were black-and-white photographs of the air raids of 1942 that could be described as in the original Dutch style. The pylon of the brass trumpet cap handed over the string to the officers was called the most crucial piece of equipment they had. After waiting for hours of ironing paper – meaning that, in a time of 8-8.30am, no time for clearing ink and cleaning, pencils and pencils – the navy and air force urged them to dig down on the ground. The scale of the task took more time than the sunshine.
One mission the police chose to set was to keep the island’s official count count, about 90,000, down to 500,000, by hand to an area about 18,000-20,000 square feet or 300 metres. The residents prepared for that to happen, and down to the footpaths and jogways of a parched patch of the sea. All of them, the officers said, had gone in two days. Thousands have since worked on the land, and those volunteers will continue during the Christmas period.
