Title : Flying bear kills 2 Canadians in freak crash

Original :
A “flying bear” killed two Canadians instantly when a freak car accident propelled the black bear through the front windshield of a second vehicle.
A car slammed into the black bear at night on a rural Quebec highway about 25 miles north of Ottawa, the Canadian capital, local police told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.
The 440-pound bear was thrown into the air and hit a SUV traveling in the opposite direction, smashing through the SUV’s front windshield and then out the back window.
The driver of the SUV, a 25-year-old Ottawa woman, was pronounced dead at the scene, as was a 40-year-old passenger sitting behind her. But the driver’s boyfriend, sitting in the front passenger seat, escaped with only minor injuries.
The two occupants of the first car that hit the bear were not hurt. The bear was killed on impact.
Police said that the car, a Pontiac Sunfire, was lower to the ground than the SUV and had a more aerodynamic design, and may have propelled the male bear up into the air and into the other lane, the CBC reports.
While deer and moose are regularly seen on roads in rural Canada, and collisions with cars are relatively common, it is unusual for bears to wander onto a highway.
"Obviously, it's something really rare," local police spokesman Martin Fournel said. "We don't see that often, even if we live in the country. Lots of deer, but collisions with a bear and two people died? That's really rare."
A local hunting guide told the CBC that it is bear mating season, and warned drivers to be careful because the males go roaming outside their territory to look for female bears in heat.

Generated :
OTTAWA – Two Canadian hikers crashed a small plane into a hillside, killing two of them on board and injuring two others.
Officials confirmed Wednesday that the aircraft crashed while trying to land in Orléans, Quebec, just north of St. Lawrence.
Officers responded to reports of a forest fire on the site of the crash just outside St. Lawrence Provincial Park in Orléans, and at least a dozen people were on the ground.
They immediately raised the alarm, but the fire was extinguished Wednesday morning.
A provincial police spokeswoman said officials would take the incident further if needed.
All three people injured were taken to hospital, with one in critical condition.
There were no other reported injuries.
Prime Minister Stephen Harper ordered a full investigation into the incident.
A note on the ceremony to celebrate Air Canada’s 50th anniversary came from Air Canada’s corporate affairs officer, Nigel Manners.
He also said that Air Canada has long been keen to promote aviation, and Air Canada is “very disappointed that this kind of tragedy has occurred,” according to the note.
“We are united in the belief that this tragedy of tragedy should never happen in any way,” he said.
“It cannot be the start of a new trend — or a call to action for Canadian air and sea passengers to take action to avoid and enjoy the rest of the world.”
Singapore Tourism Board said it would release photos and other information after the tragedy, because it was the first on Canadian soil to try to honour Air Canada.
“As we do all our flying skills on the Canadian family, we’re pretty much doing everything we can to be part of the future and inspire our young people,” Singapore Tourism Board said in a statement.
