Title : E-Learning in European Higher Education Institutions

Original :
The present study on e-learning intends to contribute to closing a data gap and to stimulate the discussion on the further development of national and European policies on the issue and to supportits systematic institutional take-up. It draws upon a survey conducted by the European University Association between October and December 2013.
249 answers from higher education institutions, in their majority universities, from 38 European systems (EU and wider Europe), were received. While the sample is self-selected, it represents almost one third of EUA’s institutional membership. The survey asked about the type of e-learning institutions use, their experiences in this area and their expectations for the future. It considered blended and online learning in various formats.
Given the strong interest in Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs), a large section of the report is dedicated to this issue. The survey also posed questions regarding support structures and services, intra-institutional coordination, quality assurance and recognition.

Generated :
E-Learning in Europe is currently accredited as a "monitoring institution" in 31 European countries.
Special Report: E-Learning Is Changing the World
Fazli Hannag
For decades, professors and students have had an opportunity to learn at the University of Strasbourg (UQE), in the UK. However, today, they are used to visiting the town's Eco-Human Service Home and getting permission to stay in there.
E-Learning in Europe is currently accredited as a "monitoring institution" in 31 European countries. The certification results in more funding, as well as providing access to a broader range of resources and training -- something one can simply learn in another country.
The potential to bring more visibility to the E-Learning Institutions is represented by their "leadership institutions" of literally hundreds of young French graduates, who literally learn in the language at the University of Strasbourg's Eco-Human Service Home in the town.
The University of Strasbourg and the Eco-Human Service Home have also become an important source of specialist knowledge to the University of Strasbourg, and consequently, have become a major source of training opportunities for current and future French students and their parents.
Universities are a vital part of a booming French economy in the Global South, offering direct access to expertise and new curricula from the global upswing of digital learning technologies. For all these reasons, the E-Learning Institutions in Europe partnership has become one of the most highly-valuable and popular in Europe, and the quality of their services in this is impressive, even during difficult times for the state education system.
EXCLUSIVE: E-Learning in Europe now accredited to "monitoring institutions" in 31 European countries
This report is also reprinted from africaintegrated.com: E-Learning in Europe is currently accredited as a "monitoring institution" in 31 European countries. The certification results in more funding, as well as providing access to a broader range of resources and training -- something one can simply learn in another country.
