Title : Migrants hotspots: the Niger laboratory

Original :
Niger is a major transit country for migrants wanting to reach Europe. It is fighting irregular immigration from western african countries, but is also hosting refugees and internally displaced people by the thousands. Europe want to make it one of the so-called « hotspots » where migration flows towards Europe can be processed. euronews reporter Valérie Gauriat reported on the realities on the ground.
In the streets of Niamey, the capital of Niger, informal markets like this one are for many the only way to survive, in a country labeled as one of the poorest in the world.
Yet it is also hosting over 300000 refugees and internally displaced persons fleeing conflict in other countries and at its borders.
But when it comes to creating so-called hotspots on its territory, as suggested by France, to process migrants hoping to go to Europe, the government of Niger is skeptical.
"I'm mainly in favour of european countries finding ways together to promote a new type of relationship with african countries, based on the delivery of visas according to the needs expressed by companies in Europe", says Mohamed Bazoum, Niger's Interior Minister
Niger has agreed last year to host refugees evacuated from Libya, and potentially eligible for resettlement in Europe.
A programme managed by the UNHCR.
We met two somalian women at one of the organisation's centre in Niamey. They don't want to be recognised.
They endured daily torture in libyan detention centres, after fleeing persecution in their home country.
Evacuated to Niger 3 months ago, they are now waiting for a green light to go to France.
"The only reason I left my country was to get help" says one of them. "I had to escape from all the problems I had there. I needed to reach a safe place. A place where I could find some hope. People like me need hope.", she point out, bursting into tears.
Out of 2600 pledges from 10 countries, most of them european, less than 400 refugees have yet been resettled so far.
Many more are hoping to be taken on board the programme.
Among them, some 2000 asylum seekers from Darfur in Sudan, have converged in the town of Agadez, in central Niger.
Badererdeen Abdul Kareem dreams of completing his veterianarian studies abroad.
"I almost lost half of my life because of the wars, traveling from Sudan to Libya", he tells us. "And my message to the EU is that I hope they drop this crazy idea that refugees or migrants are not good. I hope they welcome us."
The calls from French president Macron to make transit countries hotspots for migrants has been a pull factor for many who came to Niger.
But the long wait for a reply to their asylum request is pushing some of the most desperate back on the road to Libya, points out our reporter Valérie Gauriat.

Generated :
By Adrienne Masour
The Niger laboratory at the Nigerian Immigration Training Centre (NITC) in Abuja has prompted fears of collusion between the government and organised criminal gangs, especially groups engaged in organised crime and fighting the insurgency in the south-eastern part of the country.
The station is not organised crime-free zone but gives detention and interrogation courses to counter irregular presence on the country’s borders.
The issue of collaboration between the government and organised criminal gangs is of concern because militants have played an active role in pushing militants out of the country.
The Executive Director (EUC) of the NITC in Abuja, Dr Daklokwa Majiri Amaachi, said the station was necessary to help facilitate comprehensive and comprehensive investigation and to maintain unity among the security agencies within the country.
“The Niger laboratory, like other major centres in the country, allows people to understand potential security vulnerabilities and enables them to generate insight into different elements of the operations within their respective agencies,” Amaachi explained.
He said the purpose of the facility was to stimulate long term research and development that would facilitate the importation of skills to potential students in the country, and other programmes.
NITC Director General, Dr Ishaku Ibarra, said in addition to providing training of personnel and field veterinarians to combat insecurity, NITC assisted government agencies to make positive improvements in the environment and fight crime, and to upgrade the department’s facilities, stop discrimination among workers within the department, become more mindful of the environment around them, improve monitoring of the environment, build up diversification and diversification techniques.
Ibarra said “the work we do and the co-operation we can generate from this is critical to people’s security, development and enlightenment efforts.
“For instance, as the Commander, Gen(r)at a particular time who is a member of the Northern Command, the trained personnel are offered financial and technical support from other regional communities. They are trained to be facilitators and capable for negotiation with various stakeholders, including foreign agencies, and operate as self-reliant facilitators and re-energisers.
“Some of these joint venture programmes with our partners are linked and worked closely and at times are highly successful,” he said.
Also, in addition to capacity building, the station was equipped with agricultural equipment, generators and drums of the kind of equipment that would supply government agencies with information on illegal entry into the country.
“The work at the NITC also links to the Police, Immigration Service, other security agencies to make sure that we quickly become integrated with the other tiers of government, and therefore identify police and immigration, as well as other national security service agencies to improve the quality of service provided to our people.”
According to a Police source, the operation centre gives information to management agencies, federal and state governments, and those working within the departments, and the institute helps the police to conduct regular training and interrogations of domestic cases and investigations.
Myraaba noted that NITC would be monitoring the steps taken by the government to address the problem of irregular influx of Nigerians into the country.
“We want to see we grow by virtue of the successes we’ve shown, and ensure we keep running to the aid of the world.
“When we give out training to make sure we don’t leave so many Nigerians behind, we are going to have to use our immense resources which are already available in the country to draw the sort of attention required to fix this problem,” Ibarra said.
In his response, Mr Chudong Oyekan, the acting Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Homeland Security, said the construction of the NITC was in line with the government’s commitment to implement the comprehensive state-of-the-art security, compliance and decommissioning programme.
While emphasizing the country’s need for increased security posture, Oyekan said further deployment of the NITC’s assets would be essential for effective security.
The military establishment and other security agencies have been mandated to address criminality, according to the commander, Gen. (rtd) Atiku Abubakar.
He noted that NITC’s work would make a positive impact on the nation’s security posture while making Nigeria safe.
