Title : Guest-Worker Plan to Reduce Illegal Immigration

Original :
The White House has indicated that it plans to augment its January 2004 Immigration Principles and present a more detailed immigration-reform plan to the Congress sometime this Fall. Greenberg Traurig attorney, Laura Reiff, the co-chair of the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition (www.ewic.org) has been meeting with White House and congressional leaders on behalf of the business community to work out a solution to the Immigration policy breakdown in the U.S. Sources indicate that the plan will elaborate on prior proposals to allow undocumented immigrants to apply for a three-year work permit to remain in the U.S. After the expiration of the three-year work status, it is unclear as to whether an extension would be available or whether these foreign nationals would be required to leave, and apply for readmission into, the U.S. This is a positive step forward to the prospects of a comprehensive immigration reform.


Generated :
I.U. officials continue to pursue an immigration policy that targets workers under 14, including those of kids of immigrants, whose actions do not yet qualify as immigrants under 2. U.S. government worker women and children are disproportionately targeted in enforcement activities. In the event that we can come up with alternatives to prosecuting workers who pose as lawful permanent residents, proponents of short-term worker policies such as individual pay or even seasonal work hours could join forces to truly reduce the size of what the employer is willing to pay, at the highest possible price.
Mustain amps, a coworking space for Asian immigrants, has been in operation for two years, and we understand from reading their website and letter that the organization lost its first client, or said it lost business that client, to an external employer. We heard that they could either raise rents or rent, all the while they are servicing debts of millions of dollars.
When all this is said and done, one wonders what few other women and children of immigrants will follow us to RISE, a culturally made woman-grown businesses for the very poor and exploited. No one seems to question the work ethic, ability to work, or dignity of the women who work and do the unpaid work. No one seems to question the legal and moral care provided to this female workforce, and certainly no one seems to question the real economic economics of immigration.
So we must have this conversation. Already the law enforcement organizations and the homeowners associations, who are overwhelmingly Latino, are concerned that a role for their or any immigrant in the government is inherently different from that of their female counterparts. Many of the women—many of them new—will not feel safe coming to America even if they understand the importance of the work ethic and dignity that has led to their earned public sector status and social mobility.
To illustrate, I heard Ms. Vazquez, whose work ethic and sense of right and wrong are at the top of the list, and her membership request for a visit to the SESJP facility. The SESJP facility, with a five-story high, is located in Albuquerque’s highest middle class neighborhoods. It offers home-ownership courses in residential culture, decorating techniques, and photography. Each year we welcome more than three hundred women—many of them from immigrant communities and in New Mexico, where several families participate in building a family and building a community. One woman works in finance, then another has legal residency, another has temporarily worked part-time in the community. They all seem to understand the importance of their work ethic, and are worried about the sound investment.
So I didn’t see these articles in my papers, I didn’t hear about them in the Web sites of the concerned organizations, or write about them in the media. I got some other emails and read some post on sesach@sesewspr.org, which stated a local immigrant organization has started work hours and paid their hourly workers. I did get emails, people connected with I think the same neighborhood as many homeowners. I got letters and letters from people reaching out to me—some of whom raised concerns about the economy and jobs for women and children. I got e-mails.
What brings me back to Rep. Leahy is his argument of a policy that oppresses American workers in order to further thwart the effect of the program. The book Road to Consolation (Oxford University Press, 160 pages, $29.95) reviews the economics, not the policies, of the immigration policy at RISE, but concludes with a very positive one-word affirmation: No.
We must protect the U.S. worker, our flag, our values, and our family, to stop this current tragic and illegal form of exploitative foreign labor. Now let’s work together to create better policies that will unlock the path to citizenship.
On September 25, the House of Representatives will send a highly controversial House immigration bill to the President. But if left in place, it would essentially erase all but the largest part of any program that the public will ever have access to: comprehensive immigration reform. Unless Republicans restore some fiscal responsibility and anti-immigration policies, in which case this would become something like Social Security under Social Security or Medicare.
