Title : Toronto mayor Rob Ford more popular since crack cocaine admission

Original :
Embattled Toronto mayor Rob Ford has increased his popularity since admitting he smoked crack cocaine, a survey has revealed.
A poll of 1,049 voters showed 42% approve of the job Ford has been doing as mayor. That compares with 44% in a similar poll a fortnight ago and a hike on the 39% he was given in late October, before he made the admission.
This week Toronto city council voted to transfer Ford’s budget and many of his powers to the deputy mayor.
Ford said he would fight the vote, calling it a “coup d’etat”.
Local media reported in May they had seen footage apparently showing Ford smoking crack cocaine.
Ford initially denied the allegations. Then in November, after police said they were in possession of the drug video, he admitted smoking crack cocaine “in a drunken stupor”.
A second video then emerged showing Ford making threats to kill an unknown person.
He then apologised for obscene comments made on live television while he was denying allegations he had offered oral sex to a female staff member.
While Ford’s core supporters remain loyal, the poll also showed a strong majority of Torontonians believe he is not fit for office, with 60% saying he should resign. Meanwhile 69% said they believe the mayor has a substance abuse problem, which Ford denies.
Visit our special dossier about drugs in Europe

Generated :
TORONTO - Toronto mayor Rob Ford is gaining new viewers with new re-naming campaign slogans, a union announced Saturday.
Eighteen office slogans will be re-created in the next two weeks, one for the mayor's handling of the controversial crack cocaine crack cocaine murder trial. The other slogans were redesigned to reflect perceptions he had garnered in recent weeks, TAL president Tim Breen said in a statement.
"From a public, fundamental issue, to a council majority that does not even consider himself above the law, Ford is driving up the numbers on the polls, in terms of his re-naming campaign, especially," said Bridget McKenzie, director of research and communications at B.C.-based non-profit anti-violence group Sustain Toronto.
Story continues below advertisement
"We haven't seen Ford with a lot of popularity just yet, but it looks like a safe bet to the average Joe."
Ford went on trial last summer after sharing messages with 13 alleged crack addicts from his BlackBerry, using the ear-bud-like device to write "b---h." The unnamed 19 men have pleaded not guilty to charges ranging from conspiracy to assaulting a police officer to possession of an illegal gun.
With a burgeoning, on-the-street protest movement taking over social media on Friday, Ford announced he had been dismissed from the City of Toronto's public safety committee and re-found his office.
The mayor attended a memorial service for his three daughters, and is scheduled to hold a public visitation to close a fundraising golf outing for two of his daughters on Saturday.
Spokeswoman Leslie Buck said the top mayor, not to mention council, are all of "still thinking and working on this stuff".
"It's not too late to do the right thing, but we have some long walks ahead of us," she said.
Story continues below advertisement
Story continues below advertisement
Among the slogans will be: "B---h B---h" and "He's the one who can make the best mayor of this city."
Those slogans were re-created in the city's mail-order manufacturing company, Regional Systems, which began implementing them in June.
The printer has already received back 8,000 of them, and local print shop WSP, with more available, should be able to post them early next week, said WSP's creative director, Doug Baxter.
The other slogans are set to air next Thursday on cable television network Star TV.
In a post on his social media page, Ford made a few promises.
"After much trial preparation and much alcohol counselling I know there is plenty of wine and wine and wine and whisky out there, but I am ready to drink it and be a man without drugs and alcohol. Let's take care of the rest of our family," he wrote.
Story continues below advertisement
The mayor said no one has been charged with murder, but said he has made clear he would not take a sledgehammer to make his office the murder capital of the province.
"These guys are not on crack. I got six of them, one of them is dead," Ford said in his last appearance before the Ontario Superior Court.
Report Typo/Error
