Title : Young African migrant killed in Channel tunnel

Original :
A young African was killed by a freight train near the entrance of the Channel tunnel in the port of Calais overnight, French officials announced Thusday. European leaders remained divided over a decision to take in 120,000 refugees, despite a six-hour summit in Brussels Wednesday.
The migrant was hit by a freight shuttle at around 2.00am on the Channel tunnel site, officials said.
Emergency services found an African, a minor, dead when they arrived.
They said he was probably from Eritrea or Sudan.
More than 11 people have died while trying to cross from France to Britain, either in the tunnel or near it.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Thursday that the agreement to relocate 120,000 refugees in EU countries was not enough to tackle the influx.
"I am deeply convinced that what Europe needs is not just selective relocation of this kind, but much more a durable process for fairly distributing refugees among member states," she told parliament. "A first step has been taken but we are still far from where we should be."
Four countries - the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia and Romania - voted against the deal but will still have to take in several thousand people.
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban on Wednesday accused Merkel of "moral imperialism", while Slovak PM Robert Fico announced that he would go to the European Court of Justice to have the "diktat" overturned.
A six-hour summit on Wednesday decided to devote at least one billion more euros to helping refugees in countries around Syria, European Council President Donald Tusk announced on Wednesday night.
The money will go to the UN's refugee and programme and the World Food Programme.
France is to donate 100 million euros over two years, President François Hollande said.

Generated :
A 25-year-old South African, who had been on board a ferry travelling to the West African coast and was having difficulties landing in Marseille, has been found dead in an open field near the town of Gaslamp, Marseille's mayor said.
Police were investigating whether the caboose was lifted by the ferry, which proceeded the ferry on the almost 1,000-meter (3,600-foot) Channel, which has at least 600 arrivals.
The European Union and France had offered to give the town €40 million ($40 million) for the passage of the bus commuters, which some locals say causes anxiety.
Macquarie and Excel said it was investigating whether they were deaths due to a road block, or suicide.
Jean Thigpen, the country's transport minister, said he had spoken to French President Francois Hollande about the incident.
"The French government (did) raise the same question with the EU and France," Thigpen told AFP in Paris.
A Franco-African border patrol have been patrolling the area in the area of Gaslamp and nearby Unenfeld in South Africa's southeastern state of West Africa.
Libya for years has served as the route for Africans travelling by horseback to the African coast.
In 2010, a group of 300 mainly Libyan migrants were seized by Libyan security forces in the Hjoraie refugee camp, 80 kilometers (50 miles) away in west of the Tunisian town of Nafiza, after fleeing in the wake of pro-democracy protests in Tunisia.
Thigpen said he was speaking in English and had spoken to the current authorities in East Africa to determine if they were trying to shelter them from attacks by militants.
He said doctors did not believe there was any possibility they were still alive,
However, he said they had told him last week that after rescuers reached their location the firefighters had declared them dead.
Libya's Foreign Minister Ahmed Shiri was quoted as saying the attacker was probably trying to make an escape.
