Title : More Than $30M In Grants Awarded To Faculty

Original :
2017 has been a banner year for the college in terms of grant money awarded. Faculty in the college have more than doubled the amount of grant money received in the past three years, with new grants totaling more than $30 million.
Several grants received are for more than $1 million, including two from the U.S. Department of Education awarded to Dr. Rafael Lara-Alecio, Regents Professor in educational psychology. The grants, totaling $13.5 million, are focused on empowering teachers of English language learners (ELLs) and science education using technology for ELLs.
“Twenty-six other college faculty received awards this last year from a wide range of federal, state and local agencies to make an impact on education in our public schools, workplace issues, military children, teen pregnancy and human health,” added Dr. Bloomfield.
Those federal grants were awarded by NASA, the National Science Foundation, the U.S. Department of Justice and U.S. Department of Defense, among others. Faculty also received numerous grants from state agencies to further their research.

Generated :
Mary Louise O’Brien, a professor at the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences has been awarded more than $30 million in career-placement grants.
In addition to the $20 million she received from the Stanford Research Foundation and the Hsiu-Nen Foundation in 2016, O’Brien has also received $21 million from the Bold Fund to advance research at Stanford and other Stanford universities, according to a new USC release.
Other recipients announced during the 2016-2017 school year: Adeel Akhtar, a faculty at Medill, is recognized for his work on cardiovascular disease prevention and injury, and for the help he’s provided to women suffering from premature onset of cardiovascular disease.
“The work he has done and his contributions to the community will bring many new challenges to come and provide a glimpse into the future,” said Dean Gregory Arnoldi, Chair of the Campaign for Commercial-Free Childhood. “The news is exciting and historic as he is a professor and leader at Stanford.”
Stanford’s numerous areas of expertise include MRCATC researchers, supporting practices to improve research accuracy, collaboration and best practices for dissemination, including an extension of the research within the Stanford brand.
AID
In addition to the $10 million awarded by the Hsiu-Nen Foundation in 2016 for MRCATC researchers in Eugene, Eugene and Free Throw children’s schools in Eugene, Egon Zehnder, a professor of applied biological sciences at Stanford, received $9 million from the National Science Foundation and $7 million from the Washington-Beijing University-Nen Association of Research Scholars Program.
“I’m thrilled, in recognition of all the hard work and sacrifice I’ve put in,” Zehnder said. “I’m especially proud of the collaborations I’ve made, and I see the impact that I’ve put into these programs.”
The Beck Center in Eugene, Eugene and Free Throw schools comprise the Beck Center for Applied Economic Studies at Stanford. The Beck Center is a nonprofit public university devoted to promoting higher education. The Beck Center is collaborating with government agencies, philanthropies and other individuals to conduct research and raise funds for scholarships, programs and investment research.
The Creswell Foundation has pledged more than $7 million in research grants to employees of the Creswell Foundation, which the release called a “partner community support organization.”
The Beck Center’s portfolio includes the institute’s research on global disparities, and includes more than 40 partnerships with universities and corporations, including hundreds of partners like Harvard, Northrop Grumman, Marriotts Ridge and the University of Maryland.
“I am deeply gratified and thankful for the many grants awarded by The Beck Center to improve research accuracy, collaboration and best practices for dissemination,” said School of Education Principal and Director of Advanced Research, Carolyn Ward-Bruck. “Because of their support, we are focusing our efforts on expanding research methods, improving cross-disciplinary exchanges and enhancing the demand for our flagship program at Stanford.”
Other recipients announced during the 2016-2017 school year: Jaime and Cheryl Edwards, MD, associate professor of pediatrics at Case Western Reserve University; Jaqueen Zangief, University of Arizona professor of obstetrics and gynecology; Maureen Ducree, D.Phil., dean of the College of Pharmacy at Case Western Reserve University; and Sheesley and Claude Ogle, faculty members in Atherton and Ward-Bruck’s Fulbright Conservatory of Music.
“This solid start to the next academic year is just one of many catalysts we will help advance the value and the goals of this unique endowed fund,” Oaks said. “The career-placement grant supports significant work in helping us hone our sense of mission, including tackling institutional challenges that impact an already diverse campus.”
