Title : THE STORY OF CHRISTMAS IN JAPAN

Original :
The Christmas season is a widely anticipated time all around the world. Each country and region celebrates Christmas in different ways. In Japan, Buddhism and Shinto religious beliefs are predominantly practiced by most Japanese, but Christmas is still celebrated. Several Western customs have also caught on such as giving out presents and sending and receiving Christmas cards.
Christmas in Japan is more a time to spread the joy of the season rather than a religious celebration. In fact, Christmas in Japan is considered a romantic occasion, much like Valentine’s Day, where couples spend the evenings together strolling along streets lit with beautiful Christmas lights.Shinjuku Terrace City Illumination
Couples have a romantic meal and then exchange gifts. Other Japanese families love to celebrate their Christmas by serving Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC) and a Christmas cake at the dinner table.
Christmas was first introduced to Japan during the Sengoku period, or the “Warring States Period” (15th – 17th century). This was a time of social upheaval among Japanese warlords. The missionary Francis Xavier introduced Christianity to Japan. The first Christmas service was held in 1552 and to honor the holiday spirit, donations were given to the less privileged farmers. The Tokugawa Shogunate was a new era of isolation to Japan that led to widespread persecution of Christians for fear that they might attempt to overthrow the new government. This resulted in the crucifixion of 26 Christians and the outward disappearance of public practice of the Christian faith.Christmas cake (Strawberry sponge cake)
The Meiji Restoration restored imperial rule to Japan in 1868 under Emperor Meiji. Christianity was again allowed in Japan in 1873. Christianity at the time meant large lavish parties for visiting foreigners. Santa Claus was introduced a year later.
Japanese department stores began putting up Christmas trees in 1904 and a few years later, stores began selling Christmas cakes. By the 1930s, the Christmas shopping season was a much anticipated event.
The 1980s brought in a sudden boost to the Japanese economy. Yuppies had money to burn and many corporations took advantage through commercialism. Trendsetting magazines geared towards the younger generation advertised the concept of Christmas as being a day for romance, hence the Japanese concept of Christmas equals Romance.
No matter how Christmas is celebrated around the world, its meaning is universal – giving thanks and spreading the love. Merry Christmas, everyone!

Generated :
The dinner-cake situation between the French and Japanese that started recently in Japan officially endures and becomes somewhat normal as time passes as the movie turns into the actual movie.
Seeap: Well, it hasn’t just been Christmas with a few coincidences, but a lot of foreign and domestic issues to solve for the other half of the population. And that includes food that Japan is generally a lot more food-focused to some extent. Even if they are topped with a little bit of starry red cabbage.
Also read: Jamie Oliver Suspends Fallon's New Christmas Card After Complicating His TV Show
While Japan isn’t the only place where tradition reigns over food, it is the most common. Not only is it usually hard for Japan to remember, but it is considered one of the richest and most developed nations in the world, following the principle that they are only friendly to certain foreigners. Often that’s thanks to the fact that restaurants in parts of Japan would have long since abolished the chocolates to high-end (thanks to the massive savings which were found in their value).
SEE ALSO: Buzzfeed Honors UK Journalists for Contributions to Journalism
The oddest practice Japanese restaurants have of bringing back a beloved item is the plastic-screening check-in. It is generally played like this. There’s nothing offensive about this, and it goes against tradition to put food on the table when you’re looking for an item. The offhand mention, “Beware the Japanese!” indicates the establishment is interested in a new item. However, what is really odd about this is that the buyback is reportedly the cause of the problem.
What is the reason behind this? Well, something has to do with charity that is so painful in this country, and it comes from a desire to not have children. If money doesn’t provide some sort of comfort in the way the elderly here are dying, maybe this symbolizes this nation and puts an end to the of domestic needy. It’s not the type of trend that would logically encourage a bunch of Thai kids from Basit so they can join a local rally against Chinese famine. Maybe this season was organized to help these kids, but it wasn’t because it was a good idea or they wanted a better Christmas compared to this year. A donation can actually be made in any type of way, but it can still be an incredible gift.
Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.
