Title : Finland crushes Canada 5-1 at hockey worlds

Original :
HERNING, Denmark -- The road to the medal round got tougher for Canada on Saturday at the world hockey championship.
Mikko Rantanen scored two goals as Finland beat Canada 5-1. Rantanen and Janne Pesonen scored on the power play for the Finns, who also had goals from Eeli Tolvanen and Teuvo Teravainen.
Jean-Gabriel Pageau had the lone goal for Canada.Canada entered the game with a perfect 12-for-12 record on the penalty kill, but Pesonen and Rantanen both struck with the man advantage to give Finland a two-goal lead after one period.
"There was nothing different," said Bo Horvat, who has been one of Canada's key penalty killers. "I think they just moved it around pretty quick. They've got a lot of skilled forwards out there and they made some good plays."
"They were able to expose some seams," added coach Bill Peters. "They did a good job of quick puck movement and had a real good plan."
For their part, Canada's power play was 5-for-17 coming in but went 0-for-5 against the Finns.
"We're going to have to make some adjustments," said Peters. "We didn't handle the puck pressure up top very well."
Finland moved into second place in Group B, one point behind the United States. Canada sat fourth with 10 points but has played one less game than third-place Denmark.
Two games remain for the Canadians in the round-robin portion of the tournament: Monday against Latvia and Tuesday against Germany. The top four teams from each bracket will advance to Thursday's quarter-finals.
Finland opened the scoring at the 8:50 mark of the first period off an own goal for Canada, when Brayden Schenn accidentally tipped the puck between the pads of goaltender Curtis McElhinney. Rantanen was given credit.
Pageau drew Canada even with his first of the tournament at 10:55 before Finland went to work with the man advantage. With Josh Bailey serving an interference penalty, Pesonen deflected a puck past McElhinney from the top of the crease at 13:48.
Rantanen then outwaited McElhinney before roofing a backhander for his second of the game at 16:35 while Anthony Beauvillier was serving a tripping penalty.
"We didn't establish a rhythm," said Peters. "I thought they did a better job establishing their team game before we did."
"We were always behind, trying to play catch-up," said Connor McDavid, who served a high-sticking double minor in the third period as part of Canada's 22 total minutes in penalties. "When you're behind people like that, you're going to hook and hold and you're going to take some penalties."
Making his fourth start in net after being rested for the final 11:48 of Canada's 5-0 win over Norway on Thursday, McElhinney made six saves on nine shots before being pulled by Peters after Rantanen's second goal.
Darcy Kuemper was beaten twice in his 43:25 of playing time. He gave up goals 10 seconds apart in the third period to Tolvanen and Teravainen.
Sharp in the Finnish net, Harri Sateri made 30 saves. Pageau's first-period shot was the only one to beat him, after being deflected by a Finnish defender.
Making his tournament debut with Canada after the San Jose Sharks were eliminated from the NHL playoffs, Marc-Edouard Vlasic drew onto Canada's top defensive pairing with Aaron Ekblad.
"I'm here to win," said Vlasic. "Tonight was embarrassing and that's not us, 5-1 -- that's unacceptable."
Thomas Chabot of the Ottawa Senators was scratched to make room for Vlasic in the lineup.
After skating with Jokerit of the KHL, the Nashville Predators of the NHL and for Finland at both the 2018 world junior and Olympic tournaments this season, 19-year-old forward Tolvanen scored a goal and added an assist in his first world championship game.
He joined the Finnish team in Denmark after the Predators' elimination earlier this week.

Generated :
TORONTO — Meghan Klingenberg shot a goal and was assisted on by Erin O’Hara in the shootout to help Finland pull off its biggest win at hockey worlds.
O’Hara scored twice and Mikaela Schembri scored twice as Finland edged the Canadian men’s ice hockey squad 6-5 on Saturday in its first elimination game since the 2015 final.
Canada was a step away from the wooden spoon after crashing the gate to lose to the Blue Jackets 1-0 in Pittsburgh on April 29. The Warriors eventually rolled over an embarrassing performance from the Blackjacks on Monday, where they took down the world’s oldest team, advancing a highly motivated fourth season in 29 years in pursuit of a spot in the national semifinals.
"This group has done well," O’Hara said. "They kind of seemed to be on their way to reaching their goal. It was a special game this past weekend. We have a lot of confidence heading into the Olympics."
"We knew we weren’t good enough," said fellow Finnish striker Radoslav Halak, who scored in the shootout to give Finland a 3-2 victory over Canada in Finland. "We also knew we’re going to miss the Battle of Barca. That’s something that can be missed from being young players. They’re going to have special players."
O’Hara opened the scoring at 10:24 of the first period as she scored from a point-blank feed from Klingenberg that gave Finland a 3-1 lead on Halak’s goal at 13:42 of the second. At 8:04 of the third, she added another goal and earned her second straight hat trick.
Schembri scored Finland’s other goal midway through the third period after she appeared to be intentionally shot away from the puck behind the goal and buried a rebound. Halak had a goal and two assists, but also had two penalties, and O’Hara finished with three assists and did not factor in the scoring.
"My teammates taught me that if you score goals, you can have success," said Schembri, a first-year forward. "When you score more goals, it gives other players some confidence and they’re more prepared to work on their offense. It was an amazing game tonight. I was pretty happy with the way I came through."
Finland had never been eliminated in a game before Saturday. No one seems to dispute the fact that its youngest coach was only 38, but the women’s team will still be trying to wrap up bronze with another meeting against China in the four-team tournament.
The win came a day after Canada beat Norway 3-2 on its way to the 2018 world championship.
Henrik Karlsson scored a goal and added an assist for Canada, which hosts Denmark. The four players who skated with the national team in game one scored once each and the gloves were struck twice.
"I think it was the most proud game of my career," Karlsson said. "We had a lot of quality individual plays."
In other action, Finland received goals from Brianna Kuznetsov and Mathieu Schneider, and goalie Brianna Toltevski scored a second-period shutout.
Canada’s 2-0 win over Finland late in the game kept the Canadians unbeaten at home in seven games, having the best chance in a competitive meeting between the teams since the 2011 final. The second game was postponed due to rain.
"We’ve just been playing with a very high level of confidence and belief — especially coming into Canada’s (opening match), knowing that no matter where you are or what’s going on in this sport, you have to play our best game and have our best performance," coach Dani Albrecht said.
Finland reached the bronze medal game in Vancouver last year, where the Golden Knights defeated the United States 7-2.
"It was special," Halak said. "Just seeing the crowd react so well was great. Everyone watched it so well, it’s just amazing."
___
Follow Thomas White on Twitter at http://twitter.com/ThomasWhiteAP
