Title : Education's Human Development and Family Life Education Department Announces New Fast-Track

Original :
Samford’s Orlean Beeson School of Education has just announced a new partnership with Samford's School of Public Health. The new partnership will offer Human Development and Family Life Education students the opportunity to participate in a fast-track Master of Public Health program.
Education’s department of Human Development and Family Life Education houses the Human Development and Family Science major. The major focuses on human development within the family context as well as the family’s interactions with broader social institutions.
“Our department features one major with six tracks,” said Kristie Chandler, Human Development and Family Life Education chair. “This offers our majors a customizable pathway to focus in the content that will prepare them for a more specialized career or graduate school.”
Students can choose from three concentrations: child development education, child life or gerontology. They can also pick from three accelerated programs: social work, law and now public health.
“Because of our families and health course, which emphasizes the preventive and remedial approaches to promote optimal physical and emotional well-being within the family, students wanted opportunities to concentrate on the health issues families face.,” said Chandler. “This newest fast-track with Human Development and Family Science and Public Health provides a career option for students who want to impact the health of families and the communities in which they live.”
Students who participate in the accelerated program will dedicate three years to the completion of their bachelor’s degree. During the second semester of their fourth year of study, students begin enrolling in graduate level Public Health courses. One additional year is necessary for the completion of the graduate level course work. Following their fifth year of study, students will receive their Master of Public Health (M.P.H.).
Admission into the fast-track program requires careful advising and scheduling, a minimum undergraduate GPA of 3.0 and approval of both the chair of the Department of Human Development and Family Life Education and the chair of the Department of Public Health. Formal application is submitted during the student’s final semester of undergraduate course work, and full admission is granted upon the completion of their bachelor’s degree.

Generated :
Shirley Chen Chen is head of the Human Development Department at the International United Nations Children’s Fund (IUNC).
At IUNC, Ms. Chen serves as a Senior Underwriter for the ongoing global IUNC Foundation/Established Effort. She oversees the foundation’s multifaceted enterprise, beginning with its dedication to public education, underwriting programs and training societies and activities to promote specific priorities.
“We look forward to ensuring that our scholars, teachers and experts of this field are making a positive contribution in preparing students for success on the global stage, and that research funding is supplemented,” Ms. Chen said.
In the mission to expand education and progress to greater heights, the IUNC Foundation/Established Effort has been bolstered by the strategic affiliation of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and the University of Washington. The Foundation/Established Effort is in direct cooperation with the U.S. government through its Office of Educational Development.
What are the practical challenges of supporting the foundation/Established Effort?
“Cities and organizations need access to funds and capacity. Consequently, large-scale funding of projects toward achieving the goals of development and engagement is required. In addition, non-endowed funds continue to be urgently needed,” Ms. Chen said.
“We strive to utilize unique strategies and approaches to support our unique initiatives, and work in collaboration with numerous entities for funding, patient recruitment and research funding. Besides the difficult funding and commitment issue of the current funding climate, we also have to overcome a couple of other challenges: the distrust of economic motives by large organizations for funding projects and an inability to separate the project from the funding chain.”
The foundation/Established Effort conducts partnerships with institutions and academic organizations in Africa and the U.S. for novel ideas and initiatives, and at the national level within the U.S. So far, several have been selected for the Houston 2018 Special Awards. Ms. Chen is also a recent recipient of the Presidents Day 2017 Americas Award.
Where do U.S. citizens and immigrants find inspiration for their accomplishments?
“The power of inter-American ideals is remarkably evident in the fact that all Americans value their shared goal. While the U.S. occupies a unique position in the world, many natives who choose to live as close as possible to their homeland see Americans as the best, and have strong support from the outside world.”
Aside from modernizing the New York City neighborhood of Clinton Towers to meet the more realistic needs of immigrants, the foundation’s students have gone beyond the stereotypical idea of an Ivy League education to develop awareness of the challenges many face in contemporary society.
“These students have never faced the shame of dropping out or of their education in the face of expectations from others and for whom things are tough. Yet each student is stepping on to the streets by breaking barriers and by turning the spotlight on them,” Ms. Chen said.
In addition to the impact of Ms. Chen’s work on the International UN Children’s Fund, IUNC Foundation/Established Effort provides scholarship to nearly 300 private schools in the U.S. and Saudi Arabia. The program is administered by a network of some of the world’s foremost experts in labor markets and market outcomes and features partnerships with U.S. and Saudi educational institutions, nonprofits and business enterprises.
