Title : West Webster remembers 2012 Christmas Eve tragedy

Original :
Christmas Eve day marked the 5th anniversary of the tragedy in West Webster where two firefighters were killed in an ambush, and three other people were injured.
Wreaths and candles were placed along Lake Road by firefighters on the morning of Christmas Eve.  A memorial service began at 5:36 a.m., coinciding with the time of the first 911 call.
Firefighters rang a bell of remembrance in honor of the two fallen firefighters.
“I think this stretch of road has a place in people`s minds, especially for our members as to what happened that day,”  West Webster Fire Department PIO Matthew Sauers told Spectrum News.
Michael Chiapperini and Tomasz Koczowka were killed in the 2012 shooting. The two were heading to a call on Lake Road when they were killed by gunman William Spengler.
Two other firefighters, Joseph Hostetter and Ted Scardino, were injured as was Greece police Officer Jon Ritter.
According to police, Spengler also shot and killed his sister before turning the gun on himself.

Generated :
After months of preparation, Remains of a Christmas Eve tragedy: a mass shooting at his home in West Webster, Ohio, in which two girls went to their father’s home and fell to their deaths.
“It was an accident,” Mark Sayla, a group member of the church community, told HuffPost. “This woman had a gun.”
Sayla said he remembers his wife Corinne, who worked at a firm that also employed Sayla as part of the group. His wife, Ellie, had brought her 2-year-old son, Buddy, to the hospital last week. During the week, they were both left with serious injuries.
As news of the Newtown massacre spread across the country, Sayla put much pressure on the family to decide where to bury the child and the family’s bank account, worried about not being able to get the attention of the police.
“It still hasn’t sunk in that she is dead,” he said. “I’m still laughing about that.”
He says that while his wife’s death was horrific, the church leaders managed to take everything into consideration: the fact that she lived to tell the tale.
Sayla said that he and his sisters noticed a familiar pattern in the typical bereavement for a mother: the widow often pauses for extra moments to catch a passing fidget, and wishes he would take his sister with him to another hospital to pass the time during his service.
Those final moments led the family to remind mourners what her children’s friends were doing at the church. A memorial cloth was placed near the memorial, along with instructions to keep things looking up.
“We won’t accept that this will ever be her memory, that’s a tragedy,” Sayla said. “But I know we can handle it.”
Other families mourn as well, according to Sayla.
“The (washer and dryer) room was not an easy place for children to talk to,” Sayla said. “There were the children from the school who were having trouble with the stress of talking to each other in that busy space.”
The church prays weekly.
“To be honest, this is the most important part of funerals, especially in Newtown,” he said. “A terrible tragedy and loss of life. And I am part of it, because I care about this family.”
