Title : Your Morning, A Bold New CTV Brand For Retired Canada AM

Original :
CTV reaffirmed its commitment to original daytime television with the announcement today of a new daily morning magazine-style show replacing Canada AM.
The live, three-hour program Your Morning will premiere at the end of the summer. The network also reports that former CBC Toronto News at 6pm co-anchor Anne-Marie Mediwake and ETalk's Ben Mulroney will anchor the series.
Following a magazine format, a news release says the new series will offer original perspectives and unique insights into the stories of the day, while showcasing lifestyle topics of interests to Canadians from coast-to-coast-to-coast. News on the program will be delivered by CTV News.
Your Morning will air weekday mornings on CTV (Ontario, Québec, and Eastern Canada)and nationally on CTV News Channel from 6-9 a.m., kicking off CTV’s leading original daytime lineup.
To be broadcast from Bell Media’s downtown broadcast centre at 299 Queen St. West in Toronto, the series comes from the same production team as the top two Canadian daytime series, The Marilyn Denis Show and The Social, and will be helmed by the same executive producer, Michelle Crespi.
“CTV is investing in a new style of morning television,” said Randy Lennox, President, Entertainment Production and Broadcasting, Bell Media. “We believe we can serve viewers and advertisers alike with a wonderful group of captivating personalities to start the day. We can’t wait to get started with Your Morning.”
“Our viewers already wake up with news and information available at their fingertips,” said Nanci MacLean, Vice-President, Bell Media Production. “With that in mind, the purpose of Your Morning is to add context, perspective, and personality in a format designed for today’s viewers.”
Joining hosts Mediwake and Mulroney are co-anchors Melissa Grelo (The Social) as Late Morning Anchor, Lindsey Deluce (CP24 Breakfast) as News Anchor, and Kelsey McEwen (CTV Morning Live Calgary) as Weather Anchor.
CTV will introduce a member of the new morning show team every day this week as guest hosts on The Social.
In addition to their roles on the CTV AM show, Mulroney will continue as anchor of ETalk, and Grelo will continue as co-host on The Social. Deluce and McEwen will continue their current roles with CP24and CTV Morning Live Calgary respectively through the end of June.

Generated :
Just before you roll out of bed in the morning, Aloysius Caarelo, best known for playing the Duke in the Drake and Jerry movie Dawson’s Creek, will join YouTV as host of Lifetime’s version of Classic (now known as Classic AM). These days, you can listen to a one-time-only radio show on Nova’s The Show Repeats.
New broadcast company Creative Artists Agency, part of Dow Jones, will look to maintain its formidable voice by putting its best ad sales staff together, starting with Global Operations Manager Caitie Fishman, joining Caarelo on the show as host in its inaugural campaign.
Founded in 1988, Take Up Lauder is the world’s largest authorized beauty brand. It launched a new line of makeup as a division within the Lauder organization in 2004 and was listed as a global consumer brand in October 2005. It produced 5 million makeup samples across the world and created a peer-to-peer retail line. It also licensed brands like Revelizer and Kershow in the years leading up to the launch of the original Lauder brand in 2012, in collaboration with Burt Rutan’s eponymous jewelery line.
Take Up Lauder launched the Lauder Real Beauty line in 1999 and last year rebranded the Lauder brand into various market segments called R18 and R18 & R18 & R18.
“I am committed to bringing working closer to home to our clients who have grown up without a household name. Having an innovative voice on the show is just one component of the Creation of Imagine,” says Caarelo, who also serves as the first correspondent for the Canadian channel.
Creative Artists Agency’s executive creative director Dennis Adroit will serve as senior vice president of sales and marketing, while Douglas Levchin, who is joining from Kenzo, will oversee creative as the whole brand is being launched for Lifetime. The studio and production company joined the Columbia, Mo., Artists & Creatives Group in 2006 and underwrote production of Lifetime’s acclaimed documentary feature “From Men on Top” (which was a huge hit at the Cannes film festival).
Related TV News Roundup: Chrissy Teigen Makes Brooklyn Fun With Fashion Recoiles, Joseph Gordon-Levitt Images and More Victoria's Secret Fashion Awards Coverage
“Alex was a very talented, worldly and very diligent viewer who had great ideas and expertise to deploy on the show,” says Adroit. “As I always say, ‘We should offer you something that you can really enjoy, but sometimes you get way too excited about it.’ He’s a competitor, he’s had to be prepared and to ask for our trust and strong support. The old-school hallmark of our presentations is that our client is the underdog and will always sell what they can.”
As a proven ad sales force, Adroit’s clients have been their own original agencies: DDB Canada; Interpublic Group of Cos., Partridge/Freeley & Shapiro, San Jose; Deutsch (O’Fallon), Chicago; Mosaic (Milwaukee), New York; B&G Worldwide, San Francisco; UK Agency ABJ Hamlin, London; New York Agency Madus, Berlin; Kforce, Merkle & Konigsberg, Winston-Salem, N.C.
“Alex and I have been working together with Columbia, Mo., Artists & Creatives for more than 10 years, and we have an incredible team to help plan the launch and develop our brand,” says Adroit. “Alex is an original, sharp strategist, having done work for Omnicom’s TBWA/Chiat/Day for two decades, and we’re lucky enough to have a creative guru in Alex who is the perfect person to connect with millennials, who are much more impacted by brands than the static demographic of their own parents, who are less likely to be tech savvy as adults.”
