Title : A political sensation in Canada

Original :
No. It's the political Play of the Week.
It's like a film noir. Betrayal. Dangerous liaisons. In an exotic and alluring locale -- Canada?
The femme fatale? Belinda Stronach, heiress to an auto parts fortune.
In 2003, Fortune Magazine ranked Stronach the second most powerful woman in international business.
She's also a good friend of Bill Clinton's, something that has not escaped the attention of the tabloids.
This week, Stronach made a move that shocked the normally staid world of Canadian politics.
Canada's government, headed by Liberal Party Prime Minister Paul Martin, is immersed in scandal. This week, he faced a showdown vote in parliament aimed at bringing his government down. It was excruciatingly close.
Then on Tuesday, Stronach, a Conservative legislator, made her move.
"I am very pleased to announce that Miss Stronach will cross the floor and has agreed to join the Cabinet," the prime minister said.
Stronach switched parties! It would be like House Republican leader Tom DeLay becoming a Democrat.
There was a complicating factor. Her relationship with the deputy leader of the Conservative Party.
"At the center of this drama is a very, very personal matter, which is her relationship with Peter MacKay," Margaret Wente of the Globe and Mail said. "And she dumped him. She dumped the party and she dumped him simultaneously."
MacKay was surprised by her move. "I just didn't see it coming," he said.
And he was devastated: "My heart's a little banged up, but that'll heal."
Stronach drew harsh criticism.
"I think she sort of defined herself as a dipstick -- an attractive one, but still a dipstick," former Cabinet Minister Bob Runciman said.
"It's a little rich girl who is basically whoring herself to the Liberals," Conservative legislator Tony Abbott said.
Talk about going over the line.
"Being called a whore, being called a dipstick, is quite different than being told that one has fashionable shoes," one female lawmaker said.
What about the government? Did it survive?
Yes, by one vote.
"They say politics is boring, but not anymore," one Canadian observed. "It's more like soap opera now."
And more like the political Play of the Week.
Canada has been moving away from the United States on policies. Like same-sex marriage. And marijuana. And Iraq.
But Canada's politics are beginning to look more and more American.

Generated :
At first blush, as people continue to pay almost weekly import bills for iPods and hard drives the names on those bills seem generally suspicious.
“I think he’s a patriot who’s had no time to interfere with the custody of Canadian children,” Ms. Pedersen said of Representative Immigrants from Third World countries to Canada, held yesterday. “I really wish he would’ve started it.”
Her attendance on that provincial government radio show attracted attention both because of the departure of immigration authorities, and because Ms. Pedersen went for it.
The small Montreal-based immigration lawyer who raises Canadian children through First Nations legal centres is living in Canada with her husband and twin 10-year-old sons. The couple had been living legally in Canada for an extended period, having returned to the country when her son was 3 and were finding his ways with the national Liberal government, she said.
“We both come from areas in which there are no language barriers,” she said.
The move to Canada to raise Canadian children is not without consequence. Ms. Pedersen is a member of an al-Jazeera news station in Toronto, where she is one of Canada’s most outspoken Canadians. She made national headlines when she revealed on June 8 that of 163 Somali men kidnapped and held on hunger strikes in the 1980s, only 29 were Canadian citizens. She is charged with conspiracy to kidnap an estimated 300 Somalis, abducted and sold as sex slaves in the Toronto suburb of Bellingham.
“If we do take that legal issue seriously, it puts the spotlight on them,” Ms. Pedersen said of the women kidnapped by Somali men.
Since then she has served as Canada’s ambassador to Kenya and was involved in prosecutions against Maasai people in the Goma desert in Tanzania.
“I’ve sent 300 Chechens into Cambodia for treatment and my wife, twice, has taken them on the trip to pray,” she said. “I’ve had the opportunity to visit some of these Somalis. I’ve been able to speak to the young women in high school who are only a year or two away from being released.”
Ms. Pedersen has also helped arrange legal documents for immigrant mothers in Guatemala, Nepal and Jamaica, said her attorney, Peter L. Marshall.
“They are in a place with very little reporting and it’s very difficult,” he said of the Canadian government. “The government can’t make this decision without this.”
Ms. Pedersen went on: “My children need someone I care about more than that.”
One of the few Canadians not to be in the foreign country, Ms. Pedersen returned to her homeland five days ago to attend the new Sept. 11 Memorial and Education Festival.
“It’s safe,” Ms. Pedersen said. “I’m standing here in Calgary and being a Canadian. We’re open to visitors. We don’t treat the world like garbage — people come here and they make mistakes, we have no authority to punish people that have made some bad choices.”
Although Ms. Pedersen will stand trial on Monday on charges that she aided the terrorists who committed the attacks, she said she has no regrets about sponsoring Somali boys to Canada.
“This is a humanitarian issue. I’m being persecuted because of this. I’m told I’m not considered a citizen. When I go back home, I have no idea what my future holds and no hope,” she said.
“This is the world we’re living in. We’re on a beach in Mexico or New York City. We’re not in a situation where we can get a permanent visa, apply for a permanent residency permit and then disappear behind a wall of black misery, where all is put on trial for 12 weeks — and they are convicted.
“If I tried to run for Canada’s presidency, I would’ve been kicked out. I’d be sitting on the bench by mistake.”
Report Typo/Error
