Title : BBC 'to make classical music archive available'

Original :
The BBC is set to announce plans to make its back catalogue of classical music available to the public.
Director general Tony Hall is expected to say the move will mean historic and recent performances are "returned to the public".
They will be available on services such as BBC iPlayer and the BBC Sounds app.
Lord Hall is expected to reveal the plans at the launch of the BBC's year-long classical music project, Our Classical Century on Thursday evening.
The project will look back at 100 years of classical music in the UK and will be covered online and on BBC Four, BBC Two and Radio 3.
The corporation has one of the biggest classical music archives in the world, with recordings from the BBC Proms, BBC orchestras and choirs along with BBC Young Musician and BBC Introducing.
Lord Hall is expected to say: "In time, you will also be able to find them by using voice activation technology to make your own journey through classical music.
"Whilst the way we consume and share content is changing rapidly, music's ability to bring us together has stayed the same, and classical music's role in that should not be underestimated."
presentational grey line
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents. If you have a story suggestion email

Generated :
Broadcaster BBC Corporation
BBC Corporation is to make the BBC Life archive available to third-party music suppliers and to offer up to 5 million DVD copies of the BBC's Radio 3 hours of Radio.Radio 3 hours show episodes which are held as archive-access, starting with episodes against which the corporation has bought rights. The permanent archive, which is owned by an independent music company, is to be made available by Channel 4 Broadcasting in February next year. The BBC Life archive, which runs until mid-January, will be open to all listeners to BBC. The BBC Life archive in the first two episodes of Radio 3 World exclusive The Final Countdown will be available on independent disc retailer Circuit City, with the Classic Songs section for sale on 9 November. The computer-amusement Unit unit of the show will be made available to third parties. The BBC Life archive in the first two episodes of Classic Songs will be available on independent disc retailer Circuit City, with the Classic Songs section for sale on 9 November. The computer-amusement Unit of the show will be made available to third parties. The BBC Life archive in the first two episodes of Classic Songs will be available on independent disc retailer Circuit City, with the Classic Songs section for sale on 9 November. The BBC Life archive in the first two episodes of Classic Songs will be available on independent disc retailer Circuit City, with the Classic Songs section for sale on 9 November.
Bookmark with: Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon What are these? E-mail this to a friend Printable version
