Title : PRIMARY SCHOOLS GATHER AT NATIONAL WELLBEING EVENT

Original :
Hosted by Discovery Education and Alimentarium Foundation, Food For Thought saw educators and specialists meet for a day of dynamic workshops, experiments and seminars exploring healthy eating and body image in primary school age pupils. Over 50 teachers attended the conference at London’s Coin Street Conference Centre on Tuesday 17 th October. With sessions led by nutrition experts and body image specialists, the event offered ideas, support and resources to boost pupil wellbeing.
Drawing upon the latest research into child mental health, body image specialists Nicky Hutchinson and Chris Calland showed teachers how they can help pupils feel happy in their own skin, with positive strategies to build self-esteem and confidence. Speaker Jenny Tschiesche, also known as The Lunchbox Doctor, shared tips and tricks for teaching children about healthy eating, and highlighted the importance of building interest in nutrition at an early age. Best-selling author of the ‘What on Earth’ history books,  Chris Lloyd, explored how nutrition can be taught across the primary curriculum, with an energetic and interactive tour of food through the ages.
Sandra Bartley, a teacher at Marjorie McClure School in Chislehurst said: “I found the day really interesting and it really made me think about how we teach children about healthy eating and body image. The practical sessions which included science experiments and a healthy lunchbox session were very useful.”
Mihaela Chowdhury, a teacher at William Morris School in Walthamstow, East London said: “The day was absolutely amazing. The presentations and activities were really impressive and I know that my students will enjoy seeing all of this in the classroom.”
Myriam Al-Abbas from Al Sadiq and Al Zahra Schools in Brent, North London said: “Food for Thought exceeded my expectations and inspired me to love teaching even more. I wanted to rush back to school and start planning my next lesson!”
Laura Turner Laing, Director of Educational Partnerships at Discovery Education said: “We were delighted to welcome so many primary teachers to Food for Thought. It’s never been more important for schools to focus upon pupil wellbeing and this event was a great opportunity for teachers to share knowledge and classroom inspiration, helping them to approach these issues with confidence.”
The Food for Thought event launched a 3-year partnership between Discovery Education and Switzerland’s Alimentarium Foundation. The collaboration includes the creation of exciting new Key Stage 2 digital classroom resources – Eating, Moving and Growing – available to schools now through Discovery Education Espresso’s award-winning digital learning service.

Generated :
FACEBOOK.com/
Official: Margaret Atwood will present a free talk for students at West Point, Southern Virginia University in Huntingdon, MD on November 9th, 2017. Attending is Barbara Tittensor, PTA President of West Point.
CHAPTER 1: All Students Will Be In Armed While School is Possible. September 2017: There Will Be No Schoolwide That Vows to Fight Suicide and Yet Another One Day Every Student Cries the Flying Machine. September 2017: Students Can’t Quit. September 2017: Veterans Can’t Quit. September 2017: The Day We Can Make Them Sign The Declaration of Independence. October 2017: Learn Some of First Amendment Values, and
Make A New Shepard; Ms. Atwood Visits a Unexpected Invading Lawmaker. October 2017: Not One of You, No Friend, No Better Men, And He Can’t Take His Techkey in the Democratic Process. November 2017: No War; Armed, Everyday Citizens Can Fight For An Idea. November 2017: Violence Against Women Can Lead To Crime. November 2017: Suicide Attempts Fail To Be Prevented; Why It Can Happen To Anyone Who Ignores It. November 2017: Facebook Goes Green and Makes Cancer Patients Gain Cancer Proof. November 2017: When My Friends Die, I Live Last Word & More. November 2017: When My Social Life Is Dealing with Murder. November 2017: My Youth Could Be Stolen In the Revolution. November 2017: Suicide Prevention And Melinda Gates’ Latest Ad for Her Cancer Cure. November 2017: Freedom From Gun Control: In Support Of Bradley Manning, Bumpersticker Firm Can Push Gun Violence Back. November 2017: Mother’s Day, Teen Girl, Wife, Before Going Beyond Moms Is Loving Violence With Killing Killing Marchers. November 2017: U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ Justice Department Can Start Enforcing Gun Law In Ortega, Honduras. November 2017: Fathers’ Choices On Gun Control Mandate a Great Divide. November 2017: Pastors Demand Real Answers from Gun Owners. November 2017: Rape Victim Can’t Face Charges Because We’re Free. November 2017: Judge Recommends Recrimination Of NFL Offender Prosecution. November 2017: Melissa Rivers Relives Four Murders And Lurks at the Office Of Attorney General (AG) Amid Deportation Orders. November 2017: The Safe And Effective Penitentiary Act. November 2017: Battle Of Character: New Prosecution Mandates Prosecution For Adam Lanza’s Assault On His Parents. November 2017: The Path To Zero in Dreams Of Kalamazoo, Michigan. November 2017: When America Buries A Man. November 2017: College Not One More Bond. November 2017: Never An Option, President Trump…N.J. Parenting Advisor Warns Some Infant Parents Who Are Too Bad At Home Can Now Be Parents Too. November 2017: WillTheSun.com Read Gabrielle Ogle’s Dawn Manger’s Memoir, Bush-Era Lessons. November 2017: The Dream Act Boosts Support For Dreamers in the Senate. November 2017: United Withdraws From Administration. November 2017: Oregon Puts School District In Air Crash. November 2017: Soon Rome Has Completed. November 2017: Pick Up, Throw …. For, Freddie Gray’s Ending. November 2017: The Inprobability Of IV Flu That Seems Like It Meant To Kill Us. November 2017: Schizophrenia May Be Suspicion On Staff Of Washington State’s WHS. November 2017: John Lennon Found Unknown In Guatemala. November 2017: The Dream Assemblies. – NBC News, March 2014: Ridiculous YouTube Video Goes Viral. November 2017: The Elderly Mother Loves This Hot Camera. December 2017: Heartbroken Woman Shares Her Dream Dream…which Looks Back At Her Yesterday.
