Title : The biggest trends in music in 2017 amounted to one thing: a shift in power

Original :
In the world of music in 2017, there were many big moments: the dominance of "Despacito;" the latest albums from Taylor Swift, Kendrick Lamar and Jay-Z; the death of Tom Petty.
But the real milestones of the year went beyond any single song, album, superstar ascent or legendary artist's death.
From hip-hop's dominance, to Latin music's mainstream breakthrough, to the ongoing ripple effect of the #MeToo movement, many of the biggest music trends seem to represent one thing: a seismic shift in power.
Artists of color in 2017 received greater respect and success. The careers of powerful men who had abused their power through sexual harassment and assault were taken down over and over again. And an American president has perhaps never faced more scrutiny from musicians than what we're seeing right now.
Looking back, here are the five major developments in music that will certainly have ongoing ramifications for the future.
ARTISTS HELD ACCOUNTABLE
It's been a rhetorical question for eons: Can you separate the art from the artist? Is it right to consume or champion works of art by someone known or suspected to have committed despicable, even criminal, atrocities?
In 2017, we've come closer to a definitive answer than ever before: No.
Throughout the year, and especially this fall in the wake of the Harvey Weinstein scandal, we've seen seemingly unsinkable careers meet a swift demise, from Bill O' Reilly to Kevin Spacey.
Musicians haven't been impervious. Wisconsin-born actor and singer Tom Wopat was fired from a musical and faces criminal charges, including indecent assault and battery. Rock band PWR BTTM was poised for a major year thanks to acclaimed album "Pageant," but its ascent plummeted amid sexual abuse allegations against frontman Ben Hopkins. Marilyn Manson fired his friend and longtime bassist Twiggy Ramirez following a rape accusation.
Once-powerful Nashville music publicist Kirt Webster is out of work, music mogul  Russell Simmons stepped away from business ventures, and acclaimed acts like Crystal Castles and Brand New have been rocked by the #MeToo movement.
play
But consequences have been grossly inconsistent. R. Kelly, whose career has long endured controversy, was the subject of disturbing reports of running a "cult" where he's reportedly isolated women and subjected them to physical and verbal abuse. But he still toured after the report and released a song called "Juicy Booty" with another controversial figure, Chris Brown. Rising rapper XXXTentacion faced serious charges last fall — including aggravated battery of a pregnant woman — but his first full-length album debuted at No. 2 on the Billboard 200 in August.
But more stars are certain to fall amid new allegations yet to come forward, while listeners and labels are more likely to scrutinize new artists going forward.


Generated :
Constant and persistent high drops in inflation mean the price of an album remained around 85 cents today — that’s according to Rogers, Ont.-based Mixtape Factory, an internet music service owned by Rogers.
“This is a shift, it’s changing everything that comes to our business,” Mixtape Factory co-founder and CEO Michel Leite told iPolitics.
“We’re actually seeing people on the move, I think it’s over 50,” he said of the sector, noting some are no longer choosing to release at levels where people are happy with them.
However, creative services like 360 Digital and Nicera continue to emerge as strong providers of digital music software.
The rise of Snapchat and the trend towards social media have given mixtape sales a boost.
Users who rely on digital music are able to access services such as social gaming services in a subscription-based fashion.
The rise of social gaming has given mixtape sales a boost.
Many users subscribe to an app that allows them to access music from Spotify, Apple Music, Amazon Prime and many other music services — even music fans who want to learn a new genre or hear a new song.
“This really results in this so much more sales now than it did prior to Spotify,” Leite said.
The majority of mixtape sales are paid downloads, of which royalties are paid to owners, Maestro Studios chief executive Dustin Lubov said.
“It’s paying artists now,” he said.
Music distribution is growing year-over-year and now accounts for about 40 per cent of mixtape sales, according to Leite.
Interestingly, the middle- of the road where digital music sales have been declining also appears to be slowing down as well.
“Everyone wants a more commanding approach to what’s going on on the digital side of things.”
Across the arts, more artists are using digital music services to help make their sound, said Montreal-based Montreal-based philanthropist and music preservationist Zeba Heer.
By utilizing music streaming technologies, Heer said it provides musicians a “financial kick-start” to make their sound better.
Heer is overseeing the new event that will celebrate the centennial of Charles Filiále, the first director of the Paris Philharmonic.
Filiále, known as the Master P, designed the concert to explore the social relevance of music in the 21st century.
Heer said emerging musicians today are showing why they didn’t leave Montreal decades ago.
“Music is taking over the whole world,” he said.
“I’ve said it a couple of times and they can see it. People will use it.”
Heer said millennials are now looking to endear themselves to older generations.
Groups like Five Buttons, Atlanta artist Gladys Jansen and Portland-based Swedish producer Tara Graham are also already adding a name to their popular and unconventional music.
They are all so recognizable that millennials were able to learn from their elders, said Heer.
“By the time I was 30, and all of a sudden we are living in 2019.”
