Title : House Passes Legislation with Anti-Immigrant Provisions

Original :
The House passed H.R. 10, titled, "9/11 Recommendations Implementation Act" and attached several immigration-related amendments to the bill that were not actually included in the 9/11 report. Some of the more disturbing provisions include: (1) a broader interpretation of expedited removal without an opportunity for review, (2) changes in asylum eligibility, (3) additional federal restrictions for noncitizens seeking to obtain driver’s licenses, (4) new mandatory detention provisions for certain foreign nationals, (5) the abolition of temporary stays for aliens whose removal cases are pending, and (6) provisions to deport individuals to countries without functioning governments. There were several attempts by members of Congress to alter the bill. Representative Chris Smith (R-NJ), for example, attempted to remove two of the more significant measures of the bill without success. These immigration provisions without changes to the current legal immigration system will only serve to further complicate an already broken and ineffective system.
The Senate and the House will now meet in conference to reconcile their differences

Generated :
Shortly after Hurricane Katrina wiped out and inundated the Gulf Coast, people across the US filed in with the assistance of medical staff overseas who could not come to their homes and lobbied the US government.
Photo (cc) by DJ Portnick
Around 800 local medical workers from around the US were flown from Kuwait to Saudi Arabia for relief to their country’s poor, led by an African-American doctor and her son.
Two weeks after the hurricane, they tried to make the world’s poor feel welcome, but the United States House of Representatives passed legislation with heated language that prohibits the US government from lending money or helping those overseas with medical expenses.
The bill, HR 416, effectively prevents the US government from funding aid to those who “happen to be in the shadows,” such as those “who may be suffering from other national and international medical conditions.”
But the legislation’s critics questioned the lack of urgency the affected relatives were afforded.
“I would simply ask them whether they appreciate the government’s largesse… or if they may use this approach to speak out or for redress,” said Dr. Paul Wernick, of the American Medical Association.
Medical doctors and medical associations from all over the US plan to petition the Obama administration to try and defund the bill. Wernick’s group estimates an estimated 140,000 doctors nationwide will be on the list of to-do-lists given up for the law’s decision to not allow the waiver requests of medical workers.
The bill, or “Macobar” as it is referred to, does not restrict these workers from sharing government benefits or allow US universities to check the safety and security of their student aid.
“It’s a critical step to provide students with comprehensive coverage from around the world” according to a study done by a coalition of US universities representing more than eight million students.
Despite such an attention-getting legislation, the bill will probably survive the House but not by strong bipartisan support.
Why did the medical workers get off the hook?
Top Foreign-Policy Blogger David Sanger defends the issue of support for humanitarian workers on the Gulf Coast and puts it squarely in the seat of the Human Rights Council.
“The Gulf Coast medical workers are among the most vulnerable groups in the world; whether a patient is rescued from horrible weather conditions or a farmer or a damaged family, each will benefit and be asked to do their part to keep them in their homes until their families are rescued. They bring values, values of support, and virtues that remain relevant in today’s world,” Sanger writes.
Nancy Saarinen, executive director of the Foreign Medical Mission (FMO), a group that operates more than 20 medical colleges in the Gulf states, says the bill is “counterintuitive” in that it permits a health care exemption for medical caregivers, but is far from a blanket blanket bill.
“A doctor could take care of an aging parent, for example, but that could be lethal in a flooded or poor neighborhood of a family member or member of your own household who may have felt a pre-existing health condition outside,” she wrote in an e-mail sent to reporters following the vote.
“We have seen that challenges to the healthcare system can be overcome through practice and real results,” she added.
The Center for Responsive Politics released a list of every European doctor and medical or registered lobbyist who has personally donated money to the US side of this issue. No magazine was spared.
