Trump on Beirut explosions: Some U.S. generals 'seem to think it was an attack' ,, 08-04-2020

WASHINGTON -- U.S. President Donald Trump said U.S. military generals have told him that they "seem to feel" the massive explosion that rocked Beirut on Tuesday, killing at least 70 people, was a "terrible attack" likely caused by a bomb.
Trump was asked why he called it an attack and not an accident, especially since Lebanese officials say they have not determined the cause of the explosion. He told reporters at the White House: "It would seem like it based on the explosion. I met with some of our great generals and they just seem to feel that it was. This was not a -- some kind of a manufacturing explosion type of a event. ... They seem to think it was a attack. It was a bomb of some kind, yes."
Trump offered condolences to the victims and said the United States stood ready to assist Lebanon. "It looks like a terrible attack," he said.The Pentagon did not immediately respond to a request for comment Tuesday night.
The explosion flattened much of a port and damaged buildings across the capital, sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. In addition to those who died, more than 3,000 other people were injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.
The cause of the blast was not immediately known, but initial reports suggested a fire had detonated a warehouse at the port. Abbas Ibrahim, chief of Lebanese General Security, said it might have been caused by highly explosive material that was confiscated from a ship some time ago and stored at the port. Local television channel LBC said the material was ammonium nitrate.
Witnesses reported seeing a strange, orange cloud like that which appears when toxic nitrogen dioxide gas is released after an explosion involving nitrates.


Beirut explosions create a dilemma for the world ,, 08-09-2020

More than a hundred dead, thousands injured and hundreds of thousands rendered homeless: The human toll of the massive explosions in Beirut last Tuesday demands an immediate response from the rest of the world. It is no exaggeration to say that many will die, or be permanently maimed, if succor doesn’t come quickly.
But the tragedy also puts the world’s leaders and lenders on the horns of a familiar dilemma: How to help a stricken people without empowering their shady — and sinister — rulers?
The quandary was raised recently in Iran, when the government of the Islamic Republic sought $5 billion from the International Monetary Fund to deal with the coronavirus outbreak. At the time, I argued that the regime in Tehran could not be trusted with cash: The risk was too great that the money would be siphoned into Iran’s well-established program of spreading terrorism and sectarian violence across the Middle East. Better to offer material help — food, medicine, doctors and nurses — instead.
Tellingly, the Iranian government insisted on cash, which it has not received, and chose to let its people suffer rather than accept Western offers of non-monetary assistance. It has since tried to conceal the extent of the coronavirus crisis by fudging the figures. The real death toll may be more than three times higher than announced.
Lebanon, for all its political dysfunction and economic chaos, is for the most part an open society. The government of Prime Minister Hassan Diab will gladly accept offers of assistance from all comers — with the possible exception of Israel. Rescue and relief groups from all over the world are on their way to Beirut. Food and other emergency supplies will be arriving, as well.
But the profoundly corrupt political elite that runs the country will not miss this opportunity to ask for money too. And therein lies the dilemma.
There’s no question Lebanon will need the cash. Beirut has suffered enormous physical damage: The city’s governor estimates it will cost between $3 billion and $5 billion to repair.
Under normal circumstances, the Lebanese diaspora could be relied upon to pick up much of the tab. But in recent months, the parlous state of the Lebanese economy — and especially the collapse of its currency — has prompted many to take their money out of the country. They will send cash back in to support friends and family, but investing in reconstruction requires a faith in the management of the economy and confidence in the banking system that doesn’t currently exist.
As with Iran, there is a danger that aid money will be diverted from its intended purpose — whether to line the pockets of Lebanon’s famously venal politicians, or worse, furnish the coffers of Hezbollah, which acts as Iran’s catspaw across the region.
Fear of money falling into the hands of Hezbollah has kept the Gulf Arab states from bailing Lebanon out of its current economic crisis, as they have in the past.
That leaves the IMF, which even before Tuesday’s tragedy was in talks with the Diab government for a $10 billion loan. But those negotiations had stalled over the government’s inability to agree on an economic reform plan. Economy Minister Raoul Nehme was being optimistic when he said he might get half that amount last week.
The IMF might now be willing to talk of a larger sum, to incorporate Beirut’s reconstruction needs. But the risk of misuse may be greater in the chaos following the blasts, so it should be even more insistent on transparency.
The scale of the tragedy should shake the government — and the entire political class — into its senses about the need for reforms. Even Hezbollah, surely, must now recognize that a bailout, with strings attached, is inevitable — and urgent. At a bare minimum, the government should allow a system of international supervision of how reconstruction money is spent. Failure to secure assistance at a moment when there is so much sympathy for Lebanon would be disastrous.
The world wants to help the Lebanese. The politicians in Beirut must help us help them.


The Beirut Explosion's Atmospheric Wave Shook the Ionosphere ,, 03-18-2021

The explosion that took place on August 4, 2020, in Lebanon's port city of Beirut is considered to be one of the most powerful non-nuclear, man-made blasts in human history. The crater left in its wake altered the port, the blast killing at least 210 people and injuring 7,500. More than 300,000 were temporarily homeless.
Now, a new study by Hokkaido University scientists in Japan has given us new findings that can be used to judge just how powerful the explosion generated by more than 2,750 tons worth of ammonium nitrate was.
According to the findings published in the journal Scientific Reports, the atmospheric wave that generated from the explosion led to electron disturbances high in Earth's upper atmosphere.
The blast 'shook' the ionosphere
Following the blast, the scientists measured the changes in total electron content in Earth's ionosphere --  the part of Earth's upper atmosphere, from about 30 miles (48 km) to 600 miles (965 km) --  by looking at discrepancies in delays encountered by microwave signals sent by GPS satellites to the ground stations. The press release explains that the changes in electron content affect the microwave signals as they pass through the ionosphere.
"We found that the blast generated a wave that traveled in the ionosphere in a southwards direction at a velocity of around 0.8 kilometers (0.5 miles) per second,” said Kosuke Heki, Hokkaido University Earth and Planetary scientist. When sound waves travel through the ionosphere, they do so at a similar speed.
As the second part of the study, the scientists compared the size of the ionospheric wave generated by the Beirut blast to other waves following natural and anthropogenic events.
It was seen that the Beirut blast's wave was slightly larger than a wave generated by the 2004 eruption of the Asama Volcano in Japan. Beirut blast's southward-bound, high-velocity atmospheric wave rivaled ones generated by volcanic eruptions.
Forensic Architecture, a research team based at the University of London, has also released a comprehensive investigation of the explosion which you can watch if the topic interests you.


Court Replaces Lead Investigator for Port of Beirut Blast ,, 02-22-2021

Judge Fadi Sawan, who has led the investigation into the cause of the massive blast at the Port of Beirut last August, has been removed from the case after two former ministers complained of bias. He has been replaced by Tarek Bitar, the head of Beirut's criminal court, effective Friday.
The devastating explosion was caused by a cargo of 2,750 tonnes of explosives-grade ammonium nitrate, which had arrived in Beirut in 2013 aboard the freighter Rhosus. When the owner abandoned the vessel over unpaid port fees, Lebanese officials offloaded the cargo and left it in a minimally-guarded warehouse, adjacent to a cache of fireworks.
On August 4, it caught fire and detonated, killing 204 people and injuring another 7,500. The blast ranked among the largest non-nuclear explosions in history, and it destroyed a substantial segment of Beirut's waterfront.
Among the three dozen individuals that Sawan charged in the investigation were former finance minister Ali Hassan Khalil; former public works minister Ghazi Zeaiter; a second former public works minister, Youssef Finianos; and current caretaker Prime Minister Hassan Diab.
In response, Khalil and Zeaiter filed a formal complaint alleging that Sawan was pursuing political figures in order to satisfy public demands. The court overseeing the case dismissed Sawan last week, finding that he could not be a neutral party because he refused to recognize Khalil and Zeaiter's broad claims of legal immunity - and because his own house was damaged in the explosion.
Sawan's replacement, Tarek Bitar, has served as the head of Beirut's criminal court for the past four years. He was first asked to head the explosion inquiry in August, before Sawan was selected; however, he initially turned it down because of the obligations of his existing role, according to L'Orient Today.
The court's decision to dismiss Sawan has been widely perceived as a sign of the enduring power of Lebanon's political class and its sway over the nation's legal system. Bitar's selection to head up the investigation has been well-received among Lebanese NGOs and civil society groups, but concerns remain about how far he will be allowed to go. "Bitar is one of the young judges of competence and reputation. But it is uncertain if he can carry out his mission without interference or pressure," wrote Nizar Saghieh, the head of NGO Legal Agenda. "The biggest question is, will he return to summoning senior people without stopping at the red line?"


Women march on scene of Beirut blast in Mother's Day protest ,, 03-21-2021

WOMEN marched on the scene of last year’s devastating explosion in Beirut on the eve of Lebanon’s Mother’s Day on Saturday night.
The demonstration included mothers of victims of the August 4 blast, when 3,000 tons of ammonium nitrate fertiliser that had been unsafely stored for six years in a warehouse ignited, killing 211 people and injuring more than 6,000.
Banners called on the political elite to surrender power. “The scream of every mother is ‘leave’,” one read. Another was inscribed: “We raised them inch by inch and you blew them up. Leave.”
Lebanon is mired in an economic and political crisis, with galloping inflation and no sitting government.
President Michael Aoun is scheduled to meet prime minister designate Saad al-Hariri this week to agree on forming a cabinet, and Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah said the powerful Shi’ite militia would be prepared to support a government of technocrats, though it would prefer a role for politicians.
But he warned that Mr Hariri’s determination to access International Monetary Fund cash would entail submitting to demands that could intensify the crisis, such as removing food subsidies.
The Communist Party of Lebanon said no government cobbled together by the usual sectarian power-brokers — Lebanon’s political system is based on a division of key posts between leaders of the Shi’ite, Sunni and Maronite Christian communities — had any answer to the country’s problems.
General secretary Hanna Gharib called for protesters to “escalate the uprising in all regions, cities and rural areas” to bring down sectarianism and establish a secular democratic republic.
“Bring down the system of corruption and dependency and subject it to popular trial instead of calling for it to form a new government,” he said.


Beirut explosion linked to London address used by shell company ,, 03-02-2021

Ownership of the deadly stockpile of ammonium nitrate that exploded last August in Beirut, killing over 200 people, has been traced back to a London address commonly used by shell companies, an investigation by Globe and Mail has found.
The London address, minutes away from Oxford Circus, belongs to a London-listed company called Savaro Ltd.
Read more: Vote of confidence for London as Deloitte office sold to Hong Kong real estate business for £255m
According to the paper trail, Savaro was the last owner of the ammonium nitrate which was abandoned at the Beirut port in November 2013. The owners of the stockpile never came for the products, which had an estimated value of around $700,000.
Experts have suggested that the London address was a way to legitimise Savaro, a suspected shell company.
Labour MP Margaret Hodge has said that the British government’s Department for Business had launched an inquiry to establish who the owners of Savaro are.
Hodge added that the company had been stopped from dissolving this year by the Beirut Bar Association who are investigating the London-listed company.


Devastating Beirut blast was more powerful than a volcanic eruption, scientists find ,, 03-18-2021

Last year's Port of Beirut blast was as powerful as a volcanic eruption, generating electron disturbances high into the earth's upper atmosphere, scientists in Japan have found.
The speed of the high-velocity atmospheric wave caused by the 4 August explosion was even larger than the one generated by the eruption of Asama Volcano in central Japan in 2004.
It was also comparable to more recent eruptions on Japanese islands, the researchers concluded.
"We found that the blast generated a wave that travelled in the ionosphere in a southwards direction at a velocity of around 0.8 kilometres per second," Hokkaido University Earth and Planetary scientist Kosuke Heki said.
On 4 August, more than 2,750 tons worth of improperly stored ammonium nitrate exploded in the port area of the Lebanese capital, killing around 200 people and making more than 300,000 temporarily homeless.
The blast, which left a 140-metre-diameter crater in its wake, is believed to be one of the most powerful non-nuclear, man-made explosions in human history.
Read also: 'Not like every time:' Beirut blast victims want the truth
Japanese scientists and colleagues from the National Institute of Technology Rourkela in India reached their conclusions after calculating changes in total electron content in the earth's ionosphere.
The findings, published in the journal, Scientific Reports, were based on measurements from around 50 to 965 kilometres in altitude.
The team calculated changes in ionospheric electron content by looking at differences in delays experienced by microwave signals transmitted by GPS satellites to their ground stations.
Natural events such as extreme ultraviolet radiation, geomagnetic storms, and man-made activities like nuclear tests, can cause disturbances to the ionosphere's electron content.
Changes in electron content affect these signals as they pass through the ionosphere.
The scientists then compared the magnitude of the ionospheric wave generated by the Beirut blast to similar waves following both natural and man-made events.
More than six months after the explosion, the official investigation is struggling to break through Lebanon's political culture of corruption and obstruction.
This has meant that investigators and legal experts have been unable to hold high-ranking officials to account for the dangerous stockpile left in a heavily-populated area.
Documents reviewed by news outlets show that officials were well aware of the dangers posed by the large chemical store.
Responsibility for the ammonium nitrate is alleged to have been passed for years among different public and private entities, including the ministry of public works and transport, the judiciary, the army, and even a private explosives company.


Beirut Blast Claims Another Victim 7 Months Later ,, 03-08-2021

Time has passed and seasons have changed since the heart-shattering Beirut Port Explosion. Yet even after 7 months, the tragedy has claimed yet another victim.
The harrowing story of 57-year-old Ardem was told by his cousin, Sanahine Kassabian. Like many Beirut residents, Ardem’s house had suffered considerable damages in the devastating event.
Additionally, he also lost the pet shop he owned, which was located in Gemmayzé just meters away from the port. This left him “mentally and emotionally broken. He couldn’t eat, couldn’t sleep, couldn’t talk,” explained Kassabian.
“A few weeks ago, he was unable to stand up and walk. He observed his own body melting,” she said. When he was transferred to the hospital, it was too late. He couldn’t be saved.
This made him the latest of over 200 victims who died during the blast or after succumbing to injuries sustained in the blast.
However, Kassabian wanted to point out that Ardem’s wounds were not physical. They were not life-threatening in the traditional sense. His wounds were embedded deeply in his heart and soul. And they were eating at him from the inside out.
“Ardem’s case is an example of the long-term consequences of the Beirut blast on the Lebanese people,” she lamented.
By sharing her cousin’s story, Kassabian wanted to shed light on the dangers of the mental and emotional trauma caused by the blast.
“Thousands of people are still suffering from the consequences of this traumatic experience. Mental and emotional trauma can kill people as well,” she cautioned and urged people not to stop talking about Beirut.
“Our battle for life hasn’t stopped. Rest in peace, dear Ardem. You’re in a better place now.”
If you or anyone you know are struggling with mental health, please do not hesitate to reach out for help.


First Person: A mother’s ‘indescribable’ pain six months after the Beirut explosion ,, 02-13-2021

A UN staff member, Sarah Copland was posted to Beirut to work in the Centre for Women at the UN Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA).
She was three weeks away from leaving Lebanon to return to her native Australia in order to give birth to her second child, when the explosion ripped through her home and killed her son, Isaac.
This is her story as told to the Under-Secretary-General for Global Communications at the UN, Melissa Fleming, as part of the podcast series, Awake at Night.
Isaac was two years old when he was killed in the explosion in Beirut.
“We had been in Beirut for a year; we were at home in our apartment. And I was giving Isaac his dinner and singing him singing nursery rhymes. He was sitting in his high-chair and my husband Craig was in the bathroom when, when I heard this bang.
I went to the window, but I couldn't see anything. And within that time, just walking up to the window and walking back, a second huge explosion hit and I was thrown to the ground and Isaac was hit in the chest with a piece of glass.
My husband Craig came running out of the bathroom screaming our names. And we went to Isaac. And at that stage, I didn't realize quite how injured he was. I didn't know what it was, whether it was a terrorist attack, whether the city was being bombed, or what, so I grabbed Isaac and I ran to the bathroom because I thought that might be the safest place if there was another explosion.
And once I got to the bathroom, I realized how much he was bleeding. I wrapped him in a towel and I just took him and ran and Craig was right behind me.
We ran outside and we saw the whole street was just destroyed. There were people lying on the ground covered in blood. For me, it was like a movie, it was so surreal. And I didn't realize at the time, because I was just running on adrenaline, but I had a massive shard of glass in my face. I didn't even feel it because I was just so focused on Isaac.
I was screaming. I remember this. I was screaming, “my baby, my baby, somebody help my baby.” Craig took Isaac and I went and flagged down a car. This guy, he had his wife and his kids in the car, but he let us jump in and he drove us to the hospital.
Isaac had been crying initially. And that's something that has stayed with me. As a mother, you learn the different cries of your children, you know, when they're hungry,  when they’re just tired. But this cry wasn't one that I'd heard before. He was scared and confused and in pain. Then when on the way to the hospital, he became quiet. I was in the front seat and he was in the backseat with Craig. Craig was just trying to keep him awake, but he was fading already by then.
The rush to hospital
The driver was going like 100 kilometres an hour down the wrong side of the road dodging traffic, just to get us there as fast as possible.  He had two little girls in the car, and I think of them all the time and think about how traumatic it must have been for them to see Isaac so injured and to see me with glass in my face and covered in blood.
The driver inadvertently took us to the coronavirus wing of the hospital. I think we were one of the first to arrive who'd been impacted by the blast.
They didn't want to let us in, because it was the coronavirus wing. But we were just so desperate. We just started screaming at these security guards to let us in and just literally ended up pushing past them. At that point in time, coronavirus was the last thing on our minds.
And then when we got in, they saw immediately that Isaac was injured and they took him, and because I was injured and pregnant at the time, they took me to another area to be treated. That was the last time I saw Isaac. So, Craig stayed with him. But I didn't see him again.
Scenes of destruction at the port area due to the massive explosion that took place in Beirut, Lebanon.© UNICEF
Scenes of destruction at the port area due to the massive explosion that took place in Beirut, Lebanon.
‘Intelligent, cheeky and affectionate’
Isaac was very, very outgoing, the opposite of me in that regard. He just loved to talk to people. He was incredibly intelligent and had a very analytical mind. Whenever we got a new toy, he would want to examine how it worked before he used it. He was very good at puzzles, putting things together. And he was very cheeky. He loved to make people laugh.
And my favorite thing is, he was very, very affectionate. He just loved cuddles, particularly for me, but he would also cuddle his teachers at daycare.
Being pregnant with my second child Ethan gave me strength to sort of hold it together a little bit more. I've had two desires; one was to really just collapse and fall apart and scream, and then the other was knowing that I needed to stay calm as stress could be bad for a baby.
The pain I feel about the loss of Isaac is indescribable. It's like a physical pain. I almost say it's like that phenomenon of phantom limb, where you know, people when they lose a limb, they can still kind of feel it but it's not there. I feel like I've lost a part of me and I can still feel it but it's not there”.


Relief efforts continue to aid Lebanon after Beirut explosion ,, 08-31-2020

The devastating explosion in Beirut on Aug. 4 has impacted the Lebanese community both in Canada and abroad.
The Humanitarian Coalition, partnering with several aid organizations, is collecting donations to provide emergency relief to people affected by the tragedy. The Government of Canada will match donations made by Canadians up to $8 million.
Ahmad Araji, Lebanese Club Ottawa president, and his team created a GoFundMe with the goal of raising $30,000 to donate to the Lebanese Red Cross and Lebanese hospitals.
He said that the explosion has impacted the Lebanese community both physically and mentally.
“It’s more than physical, it’s mental trauma for every single Lebanese person whether they’re living in Canada or back home,” Araji said.
Araji encourages people to reach out to members of the Lebanese community to see how they can show their support.
“Ask them how they’re doing, if they need anything, to offer support whether it’s donating to anything they’re organizing here in Canada or anything else,” he said.
Raising awareness through social media, Araji added, is also effective in supporting the community.
“Utilize your social media to spread awareness [about the explosion], and then utilize it to try and raise awareness for the country itself, what’s going on, what the people are going through,” he said. “Then raise awareness to any relief fund that you’re interested in supporting.”
Austin Saghbini, a second-year student studying law at Carleton University said he is thankful for people who have shown support and brought awareness to the issues in Lebanon on social media. However, he has also seen some negative comments where people said Canada should keep the money within the country to help with the COVID-19 pandemic.
“As Lebanese, we love to bring [up] issues that are in Canada and raise awareness […] and create change in Canada, but right now, there was a tragedy, many casualties were lost because of the explosion, so our main goal right now is to find the solution of how to control this whole explosion situation,” he said.
Instead of posting negative comments, Saghbini encourages people to learn about the history of Lebanon, to learn about the economic and political crisis there, and understand how the explosion has worsened the situation.
“There are many problems around the world and we want to bring all these issues up,” he added. “That doesn’t mean one issue is more important than the other… we want to help everybody.”
If people want to bring awareness to issues, he encourages them to contact local politicians.
“Sometimes the best way [to bring awareness] isn’t by doing it in a negative way, but by doing it in a productive way,” he said.
Maher Sinno, a University of Toronto alumnus who double majored in peace, conflict and justice studies and theatre, said that those who wish to make monetary donations could support Islamic Relief Canada, The Lebanese Canadian Coalition in partnership with the Humanitarian Coalition, and Outright Action International.
He added that if monetary donations are not an option, another way people can support the Lebanese community is by amplifying Lebanese initiatives, voices, and artists.
“The art scene still lacks a lot of Arab artists and Arab actors, directors, playwrights,” he said. “That’s another way you can highlight what’s happening in Lebanon.”
To create change for the community, Sinno said that individuals from within the Lebanese community have to be involved in the discussions.
“Always include Lebanese voices in discussions and discourse about Lebanese people and Lebanon and what we want to do about Lebanon,” he added. “A lot of the time people discuss how we can help, but they don’t include Arab folks and Lebanese folks in those conversations.”
