Pence announces Biden's victory after Congress completes electoral count ,, 01-07-2021

Washington —Vice President Mike Pence announced just after 3:40 a.m. Thursday that President-elect Joe Biden had won the presidency after Congress completed the counting of the Electoral College votes. What was largely seen as a perfunctory last step before Mr. Biden's inauguration had turned into a day of chaos after an angry mob of rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol in an effort to halt the process.
Latest Updates: Lawmakers call for Trump's removal after assault on Capitol
Congress had to recess for nearly six hours after the angry mob of President Trump's supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol, leaving four people dead in the melee and sending members of Congress fleeing from the floor during what Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell had earlier branded "the most important vote I've ever cast."
Earlier Wednesday, President Trump had encouraged his supporters to "walk over" to the U.S. Capitol as Congress counted the Electoral College votes, the largely ceremonial final step affirming President-elect Joe Biden's victory. Although Mr. Trump has lately been insisting Vice President Mike Pence had the authority to overturn the election results, Pence defied Mr. Trump on Wednesday and issued a lengthy statement saying he could not change the outcome.
Chaos erupted at the U.S. Capitol a few hours later as an angry mob of rioters — many waving Trump flags or carrying Trump gear — breached the building.
D.C. Metro police said one woman was shot and killed by police and three people died from medical emergencies. More than 52 people were arrested, with 47 of those arrested for curfew violations.
Mr. Biden gave a speech in Delaware denouncing the violence and called on Mr. Trump to address the nation. Mr. Trump then posted a one-minute video to Twitter, telling the rioters they are "special" but they "need to go home now."
Congress reconvened nearly six hours later after leaving the floor, taking up where it had left off in hearing the objection from Senator Ted Cruz and Congressman Paul Gosar to Arizona's electoral results. The Senate rejected the objection 93-6, and the House rejected it 303-121.
Despite calls from more than a dozen senators who said they would support objections to electoral results in key states, no senators signed onto House members' objections to the results in Michigan and Nevada.
But Senator Josh Hawley followed through on his promise to object to Pennsylvania's results. The Senate rejected it 92-7, leaving the House to debate it for two hours before it was rejected after 3 a.m.
Since none of these objections have a majority, they had no chance of succeeding. Even if there was a majority on any of the objections, it would not change the outcome of the election. Mr. Biden will be sworn in on January 20.


Biden claims Trump will try to 'steal this election' ,, 06-11-2020

Former vice president and presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden issued a stark warning to voters about President Donald Trump, and his attempts to limit access to voting in November.
“This president's going to try to steal this election,” Biden said in an interview with "The Daily Show with Trevor Noah" Wednesday night.
The comments came after the host asked Biden about the recent Georgia primary election which resulted in long lines for voters after issues with both in-person voting and vote by mail requests.
Joe Biden speaks about the unrest across the country from Philadelphia City Hall on June 2, 2020...Read More
Biden said access to voting was his “single greatest concern,” and was critical of Trump’s efforts to discredit the use of mail-in ballots--a method of voting the president himself had used.
“This is a guy who said that all mail-in ballots are fraudulent, voting by mail, while he sits behind the desk in the Oval Office and writes his mail-in ballot to vote in the primary,” Biden said.
MORE: 'This is not just a Georgia problem': Primary election troubles foreshadow challenges for November
While Biden had previously suggested Trump might attempt to delay the general election, the comments from Biden articulate the most direct warning from the former vice president as the campaign continues to ramp up ahead of November.
The Democratic presidential nominee also told the late night host that he is “absolutely convinced” that the military will "escort" President Trump from the White House if he refuses to leave, alluding to the recent scathing criticism of the commander-in-chief from top former military officials like former Defense Secretary James Mattis and former White House Chief of Staff John Kelly.
“You have four chiefs of staff coming out and ripping the skin off of Trump, and so many rank-and-file military personnel saying, ‘Whoa, we're not a military state. This is not who we are.’ I promise you, I'm absolutely convinced they will escort him from the White House with great dispatch,” Biden said.
Donald Trump makes remarks as he participates in a roundtable with law enforcement officials i...Read More
White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany dismissed Biden’s comments that President Trump would have to be escorted from the White House if he loses in November.
“I think that's a ridiculous proposition. This president is looking forward to November, this president is hard at work for the American people. Leave it to Democrats to go out there and grandstand and level these conspiracy theories,” McEnany told Fox News Thursday morning.
Her comments were echoed by Trump's campaign.
“This is just another brainless conspiracy theory from Joe Biden as he continues to try to undermine confidence in our elections. It was the Obama Administration that tried to subvert an election by spying on the Trump campaign in 2016 and Biden himself was part of the effort to sabotage the incoming Trump Administration because they couldn’t live with President Trump’s victory," Trump campaign communications director Tim Murtaugh told ABC News. "President Trump has been clear that he will accept the results of the 2020 election.”
Biden’s campaign was highly critical when Tuesday’s primary election in Georgia was marred by long lines, voting-machine issues and problems with absentee ballot requests, issuing a statement urging immediate preparations for a November election that has states scrambling to formulate a safe and efficient way to vote in the midst of a global pandemic.
"Free and fair elections are the cornerstone of our democracy. What we see in Georgia today, from significant issues with voting machines to breakdowns in the delivery of ballots to voters who requested to vote absentee, are a threat to those values, and are completely unacceptable,” Rachana Desai Martin, Biden for President National Director for Voter Protection, wrote in a statement released Tuesday.
MORE: Biden targets young voters amid anger over racial inequality in new digital ad
President Trump has consistently claimed, without evidence, that attempts to expand voting by mail will lead to widespread fraud, and argued weeks before the 2016 election that the contest was “rigged” against him.
Biden said Wednesday that his campaign was putting together a “major” legal initiative across the country to monitor and counteract any attempts to interfere with ballot access.
“What do you think that this is about with Trump? This is a major deal,” Biden said, also referencing the slow pace of vote counting in the state of Pennsylvania that could be another harbinger of chaos in November.


U.S. election results | Joe Biden elected 46th President of the United States ,, 11-03-2020

Democratic candidate Joseph Robinette Biden Jr., was elected the 46th President of the United States on November 7, beating incumbent U.S. President Donald Trump, by securing more than the required 270 of 538 Electoral College votes needed to win the White House.
(Head over here for our live coverage of developments after Biden's win.)
Mr. Biden’s running mate, Kamala Devi Harris, a U.S. Senator from California, will become the first woman and first Indian- and African-American Vice-President of the country. Mr. Biden will inherit, from President Trump, a deeply divided country, battered by the coronavirus pandemic, facing high levels of unemployment and fraying race relations.
As news outlets — such as CNN, the Associated Press, and the New York Times — started projecting Mr. Biden as the winner, celebratory shouts, car horns and festive music was heard on the streets of Washington D.C. as Americans had waited more than three full days to hear who their next President would be. Similar celebrations were reported in other cities across the country including New York.
The win came as Mr. Biden, who was at 253 electoral college votes going into November 7, as per most news agencies, was projected to win Pennsylvania — a gain of 20 electoral votes. The Democratic candidate was ahead by over 34,000 votes in Pennsylvania on November 7 morning — too large a gap for Mr. Trump to bridge, based on the fact that the majority of mail-in ballots tend to be Democratic and based on the number of ballots Republican and Democratic counties had left to count.
Mr. Biden was also leading Mr. Trump, who had 214 electoral votes going into November 7, in other key swing States. Mr. Biden led Arizona (11 electoral votes) by more than 20,000 votes; Nevada (6) by over 25,000 votes; Georgia — which is likely heading for a recount — by over 7,000 votes. Mr. Trump led in North Carolina by over 76,000 votes.
“America, I’m honoured that you have chosen me to lead our great country. The work ahead of us will be hard, but I promise you this: I will be a President for all Americans — whether you voted for me or not. I will keep the faith that you have placed in me,” Mr. Biden said on Twitter, in his first public reaction to the news.
Mr. Biden, 77, is the oldest candidate ever elected to the White House. Trump, 74, has made as yet unsubstantiated claims of massive voter fraud, and his campaign has launched legal challenges in several states.
Mr. Biden spent eight years as vice president to Barack Obama. His victory comes in his third run for the nation's highest office.
Mr. Trump’s timeline on Twitter had a series of tweets covered by Twitter labels saying the tweets might be misleading with regard to the electoral process.
“I WON THIS ELECTION, BY A LOT!” Mr. Trump tweeted on November 7 before the news agencies had publicly called the results.


It's official: Joe Biden confirmed as president-elect by Electoral College ,, 12-16-2020

The Electoral College has voted Joe Biden as the President and Indian-origin Senator Kamala Harris as the Vice President of the United States, bringing to an end the legal battle unleashed by incumbent Donald Trump who has been alleging widespread voter fraud in the presidential elections.
In accordance with the Constitution and federal law, the Electoral College cast its votes on Monday for the President, the elections for which were held on November 3. The Electors met in their respective states following certification of the results.
The development brings to an end the legal battle unleashed by President Donald Trump against the elections, which he lost both in terms of the popular vote as well as the majority in the 538-member electoral college. Typically, the meeting of the Electoral College is merely a formality. However, it received international attention because of unsubstantiated allegations of massive voter fraud by Trump.
The presidential election took place over a month ago. The result is not in doubt. In almost any other year, both major parties would have fully and publicly accepted the will of the American people by now.
The peaceful passing of the torch: a hallmark of our grand democracy, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said.
After no evidence of widespread voter fraud was found in the country; after state election officials corroborated the accuracy of the results in every state in the country; after the Trump campaign's legal team racked up an astonishing win-loss record of 1 and 59; after the Supreme Court summarily dismissed two ludicrous efforts by Republicans to invalidate the results in swing states; will the Republican Party in Congresshere in the Senatefinally acknowledge the results of an election that was determined over a month ago? he asked.
Hillary Clinton, former secretary of state and 2016 presidential candidate, voted for Biden as an electoral college member in New York.
I believe we should abolish the Electoral College and select our president by the winner of the popular vote, same as every other office, she said.
But while it still exists, I was proud to cast my vote in New York for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, Clinton added.
Results of the electoral college votes rolled in from across the country throughout the day.
Congressman Dan Kildee, chief deputy whip of House Democratic Caucus, said, Despite continued attempts by the President and his Republican enablers to spread conspiracy theories and overturn the election, today's actions make clear that the will of the people will not be subverted.
This election is over, and President-elect Joe Biden won our state by over 150,000 votes14 times Donald Trump's 2016 margin. Americans must come together to support our new president and unite to defeat the coronavirus, he said.
Republican Senator Rob Portman said, The orderly transfer of power is a hallmark of our democracy, and although I supported President Trump, the Electoral College vote today makes clear that Joe Biden is now President-elect.
Trump has not conceded the defeat in the elections yet. He filed several unsuccessful lawsuits against election results alleging that there were massive voter fraud and electoral malpractice.
I think we need to respect this process the founding fathers established, and we must respect the will of the voters. As I've said previously, the Trump campaign had every right to pursue recounts and legal challenges. That has now happened over the past six weeks, and although there were instances of fraud and irregularities, it has not been shown to be widespread enough to change the result of the election, Portman said.
States must take seriously the proven examples of fraud and irregularities, prosecute anyone who engaged in it, and review voting systems to maintain the integrity of our elections. The transition process and briefings for the Biden team began three weeks ago at the direction of President Trump, and I commend him for that, he said.
Senator Jeff Merkley said as the Electoral College voted Joe Biden the next President of the United States, it is time for Trump and all who have enabled him to end their attack on our democracy.
Today's electoral college votes confirm what we've known for weeks - what SCOTUS declared and what a record number of voters decided: Joe Biden won. Republicans must end their attempts to undermine this election and get to work for the American people, Senator Ben Cardin said.


Election 2020: Joe Biden leads President Donald Trump by 12 points in latest Fox News poll ,, 06-18-2020

In the wake of an economy hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic and nationwide unrest over racial injustice, Former Vice President Joe Biden leads President Donald Trump by a dozen points in the latest poll by Fox News.
Half of more than 1,300 registered voters polled by Fox News this week say they back Biden, compared to 38% supporting Trump. The 12-point margin is yet another jump from the longtime Delaware senator and likely Democratic presidential nominee, who has led in key battleground state polls and already had an 8-point lead when Fox News polled voters last month.
Voters surveyed by Fox News overwhelming said they disapproved of Trump’s handling of race relations — a focal point ever since the May 25 police killing of George Floyd sparked protests in dozens of cities across the country.
Nearly every demographic — white, Black, Hispanic, male and female, old and young, and those earning less, or more, than $50,000 — told Fox News pollsters they disapproved of Trump on race. The same was true among moderates and independents, and those living in urban, suburban and rural areas, suburban women and, albeit with a tighter margin, rural whites.
In battleground states, 60% of voters disapproved of the president on race relations, compared to 31% who backed him.
After being pushed for weeks to address systemic racism and police brutality while presenting himself as a “law and order” leader urging a crackdown on violence amid protests, Trump signed an executive order Tuesday calling for police reforms. The order did not go as far as Democratic lawmakers and advocates have pushed, but Trump’s plan will establish a national database of police misconduct, theoretically preventing officers from moving from department to department if they have a track record of complaints of aggressive behavior or excessive force.
The order also steers federal grants to police departments that seek certifications “that they meet high standards on the use of force and de-escalation training,” Trump said.
Fifty-three percent of voters disapproved of Trump on health care; 39% approved.
The economy, a cornerstone of his re-election campaign, still appeared to be Trump’s strong suit, according to Fox News. Forty-nine percent of voters back the president’s management of the economy, which is reopening in phases in almost every state after the coronavirus pandemic forced businesses and much of public life to shut down to prevent the outbreak from spreading further.
Fox News noted that many more Biden supporters, more than half of them, are partly driven by fear that Trump might win, whereas 62% of Trump supporters say they’re motivated by enthusiasm for their candidate as opposed to fear that the Democrat could win.
Fox News said that Biden’s support for more than a year has ranged from 42% to 52% in head-to-head polls against the president; Trump’s backing has ranged between 37% and 42%.
The president and his allies have frequently noted that his previous presidential foe, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, led in many national polls before an Electoral College defeat kept her from the White House.
Kellyanne Conway, White House counselor, told Fox News Thursday night that national polls “are a colossal waste of time and money.” She noted that in most statewide polls, both candidates are below 50% and within a few points of each other.
As of Thursday, Real Clear Politics polling averages show Biden leading in several key battleground states key to Trump’s victory of Clinton, including by 5.6 percentage points in Pennsylvania; 8.6 points in Michigan; and 5.4 points in Wisconsin.


Why Biden's election should be inspiration to young leaders ,, 03-19-2021

When Joe Biden was barely out of his teens, the mother of his then girlfriend, Neilia Hunter (who would later become his first wife), asked him about his professional goals.
“President”, Biden said, and added, “of the United States.”
This life-long dream for Biden came true on January 20 when he was inaugurated as the 46th President of the United States of America. Prior to this victory,  Biden  had recorded two failed attempts at the presidency in 1987 and 2008.
At age 78, Biden became the oldest person to assume the presidency of the United States. But what people do not usually remember is that by the time he first contested, he was only 44 years old and had already spent more than a decade in the United States Senate.
Frankly-speaking, I am not a big admirer of many of Biden’s policies or decisions.  And to his detractors, Biden is a creature of the ancient regime, whose political radar, lifestyle and behaviours are all out of touch with the current reality.
In 2012, a survey by the Pew Research Centre and The Washington Post, both based in the United States of America, asked people to come up with a single word to describe Biden; the most frequent responses, nearly equal in number, were “good” and “idiot.”
Definitely, just like the rest of us, Biden has had his hits, but he has also had misses, which have often landed him in trouble. However, if you took a walk through Biden’s life journey, it would become impossible not to like him, or at least his bravery and determination.
Born Joseph Robinette Biden Jr. in1942, Biden is the eldest of four siblings. In school, Biden was never considered as one of the brightest students and while at Law School, he graduated 76 in a class of 85. He later became a public defender – a less fancied job by many lawyers.
But surprisingly, this is the same man, who in 1972, made a run for the United States Senate facing off with a 62-year-old World War II veteran and a long-time political figure.
At 29, Biden was so young that, on election day, he would still be constitutionally ineligible to take his seat.
Then, only a few weeks after his historic Senate win, Biden’s life fell apart when he got the tragic news that his wife and baby daughter were killed in an accident while their two sons suffered serious injuries and were hospitalized for months.
The news hit Biden pretty badly and he even thought of suicide. During this time, Biden, who had been a devote Catholic, didn’t want to hear anything about God or prayers.
He also contemplated resigning from the Senate and it took the convincing of political elders for him to stay on.
Biden says, he took the seat partly because he worried about what would become of his sons if he never recovered and, in their support, he made a 90-minute bus commute each day to Washington DC for 36 years until his election as Vice President of the United States of America.
In many ways, the story of Biden sounds fictional and I doubt whether many of us, faced with similar circumstances, would rise up to the occasion.
Biden’s story should teach us that it is the optimists who build the future and should be a turning point for those young leaders in politics, business, whatever it is, who may have replaced hope with anger and fear.


It's still amazing to me that Biden is president ,, 03-21-2021

Joe Biden’s presidential campaign was stunning. He shattered Barack Obama’s 2012 vote record with 15 million more votes. Biden’s impressive performance calls into question whether it was Biden who pulled Obama across the finish lines in 2008 and 2012.
Hillary Clinton’s 2016 totals beat Biden in every urban county in the United States; yet he outperformed her in the metropolitan areas of Georgia, Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania.
President Trump, with over 74 million votes, beat previous sitting presidents’ records; however, that wasn’t enough to beat Joe Biden, the new record holder.
Proving how sharp his political instincts are, the former vice president managed to gather a record number of votes while consistently trailing President Trump in measures of voter enthusiasm. Biden also secured record-breaking vote totals despite Democrats’ general failures in local house and state legislative seats across the nation.
The Cook political report and The New York Times rated 27 house seats as toss-ups going into Election Day. The Republicans won all 27.
Democrats failed to flip a single state house chamber, while Republicans flipped both the House and Senate in New Hampshire and expanded their dominance of state legislatures across the country.
Ohio and Florida have consistently predicted the national outcome. Biden again beat the odds becoming the first president in 60 years to lose these states and still win.
Have you heard about “Bellwether Counties?” It’s a list of 20 counties in the United States that have accurately predicted 100 percent the winner of the presidential election continuously for 40 years. The Wall Street Journal and The Epoch Times independently analyzed the results of these counties.
What if I told you that Trump won 19 of these 20 counties this time around? Amazingly, in spite of badly losing these bellwether counties, Biden was able to do what no other presidential candidate had been capable of — lose in almost every bellwether county across the country and still win.
Donald Trump was pretty much the only incumbent president in U.S. history to lose his reelection while his own party gained seats in the House of Representatives. Now that’s a Biden miracle.
To have pulled so many rabbits out of his hat, nobody can deny that Biden is a first-rate campaigner and politician.
These tremendous achievements would normally receive complete analysis from the media, yet not only have they gone mostly unmentioned, all attempts to examine the voting records have been blocked and any use of the words “election fraud” will get you kicked off social media platforms.
America became the greatest democracy the world has ever known. Cancel culture is redefining America in our schools and in our lives. I don’t know what that will look like, but for millions of Americans there’s neither freedom of speech nor trust in the election process. That’s not freedom; that’s a disaster.
Remember, Rome burned while Nero fiddled, proving that great empires can, and do, fall.


Millions of Americans don't believe Biden was elected fairly. Here's how that's affecting voting laws ,, 03-21-2021

Two months after Inauguration Day, President Joe Biden is fully immersed in the daily activities of the presidency. He’s signed bills, announced a flurry of executive orders and delivered a speech from the White House’s red-carpeted Cross Hall. Yet the false narrative that Biden was not duly elected lingers. That is, millions of Americans don’t believe the 2020 presidential election reflected the will of the people.
As the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol proved, belief that the election was not free or fair can be dangerous. While many pinned the riots to former President Donald Trump’s messaging, experts like Jonathan Rauch, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and author of “The Constitution of Knowledge: A Defense of Truth,” say the fact that Trump is out of office doesn’t mean that the conspiracy theories about the election will go away.
“Trump was a node in a very large international network,” said Rauch. “He’s not and never was the only node.”
Fighting disinformation will be a “long-term struggle,” he added.
More than half of Americans believe that either or both of the last two presidential elections were fraudulent, according to data reported by political analyst Scott Rasmussen in the Deseret News. His polling showed 26% believe Hillary Clinton was the legitimate winner in 2016 and 31% believe Trump was the legitimate winner in 2020.
While research like this shows disinformation is not new and comes from both sides of the aisle, Kathryn Olmsted, a professor of history at University of California, Davis, who studies anti-government conspiracies, says it’s a growing problem. Increasing distrust of election results and the use of disinformation as a political weapon could ultimately undermine our democracy, she said.
Now, Republican legislators in dozens of states are using the public perception of widespread election fraud to advocate for changes to voting laws, in what Berkeley Public Policy professor Robert Reich called “the biggest attack on voting rights since Jim Crow,” on Twitter. But with a majority of Americans supporting election system reform, other Republican states like Tennessee are seeking compromise bills that would increase the security of elections without raising unnecessary barriers to voting. Still, as lawmakers in states like Georgia, Florida and Arizona push to limit early voting, the use of ballot drop boxes or vote by mail (long-embraced in Utah), Olmsted worries that trying to fix a problem that doesn’t exist could backfire and make it harder for more and more people to vote.
What is disinformation and why is it on the rise?
Misinformation is generally defined as false or misleading information, whereas disinformation specifically refers to false or misleading content that is spread intentionally to deceive. While both have been increasing for decades, Trump’s propensity for making false statements while president brought increased attention to the problem, said Olmsted. Then, the 2020 pandemic ratcheted up paranoia and fueled animosity toward institutions that imposed gathering restrictions and mask-wearing, in addition to giving people more time to spend online, she said.
In 2020, Pew Research Center reported that nearly 1 in 5 U.S. adults said they got their political news primarily from social media. That subsection of the population was mostly under 30 and more likely to encounter conspiracy theories, the data showed. A December poll from NPR and Ipsos showed that 7% of respondents don’t think the 9/11 attacks were carried out by al-Qaida terrorists and 19% don’t believe former President Barack Obama was born in the United States.


Gov. Reeves refuses to say Biden's election was legitimate; denounces mail-in voting ,, 03-08-2021

JACKSON, Miss. (WLBT) - In an interview Sunday night with CNN’s Jake Tapper, Mississippi Governor Tate Reeves was given several chances to say if he believed President Joe Biden was legitimately and lawfully elected.
Each time, he stopped short.
Reeves acknowledged Biden’s presidency will not be overturned and he was “duly elected,” but wouldn’t answer yes or no specifically when asked whether it was fair.
“Do you accept the 2020 U.S. Election was free and fair? Obviously every election has some questions, but I’m talk about free and fair legitimately elected Joe Biden, yes or no?” Tapper asked.
“...He was certified in all 50 states and he is the duly-elected president,” Reeves said. “But that doesn’t mean that we don’t have bad laws on the books in other states, it’s just a fact.”
The “bad laws” he’s referring to are in reference to mail-in ballots.
“In our state we do not allow mail-in voting, and the reason we don’t allow mail-in voting is because we...think that it allows lots of opportunities for fraud and other things. And I don’t think that mail-in voting should be allowed in other states around the nation.”


No Winner Yet, But Biden's Lead Grows in US Presidential Election ,, 11-05-2020

WASHINGTON - Americans waited Thursday to see if vote count updates from several states would make clear the winner of the presidential election, a day after wins in two battleground states put former Vice President Joe Biden within reach of victory and President Donald Trump’s campaign launched a series of legal challenges.
U.S. news organizations have yet to project winners in six states: Alaska, Arizona, Georgia, Nevada, North Carolina and Pennsylvania.
Projections on Wednesday put Biden as the winner in Michigan and Wisconsin, two states Trump won in the 2016 election.
“I’m not here to declare that we've won. But I am here to report that when the count is finished, we believe we will be the winners,” Biden said Wednesday afternoon.     
Biden could reach the 270 Electoral College vote threshold needed to win the election if he holds onto his leads in Arizona and Nevada.
In the U.S. Electoral College system, the popular vote winner in each state — with two exceptions, Maine and Nebraska — receives all of that state's electoral votes, which are allocated on the basis of population.  
States do not declare a winner before all votes are counted, but news organizations project winners when they conclude there are not enough uncounted votes remaining to change the outcome.  
Biden also led in the national popular vote with 71.6 million votes as of Thursday morning, compared to 68.1 million votes cast for Trump, according to Edison Research and The Associated Press. With the heavy early voting, the total 2020 count, by some estimates, could reach a U.S. record of 150 million or more.
Demonstrators gather during the "Count the Votes! Rally for Fair Elections in the USA" rally organized by Young Democrats.
Who Declares Winner in US Presidential Election?
Founding Fathers created a 4-month process of formally certifying the victor
Trump path
Trump, however, still has a path to victory if he can take back any one of the states where Biden is leading. The president is leading in other states that have not yet been called: Pennsylvania, Georgia, North Carolina and Alaska. By sweeping these, but not flipping a Biden-leaning state, Trump would end up with 268 Electoral College votes, just short of the total needed to win.
In Pennsylvania, more than 1 million mail-in ballots are currently being counted. The Biden campaign said it has been winning 78% of the votes-by-mail in Pennsylvania. The results in that state are not expected until Thursday or Friday.
The Biden campaign had urged supporters to vote by mail to stay safe during the coronavirus pandemic, while Trump has, without evidence, denounced mail-in voting as fraudulent and a scam.
The Trump campaign said Wednesday it will request a vote recount in Wisconsin, where Biden leads by about 20,000 votes, and has filed a lawsuit seeking to stop the count in Michigan, where Biden is ahead by over 35,000 votes. The president’s surrogates in Pennsylvania, where Trump led at one point by about 389,000 votes, are also mounting legal challenges to stop the counting of mail-in ballots.
The Trump campaign also filed a lawsuit in Georgia on Wednesday asking a judge to order state election officials to follow the law in storing and counting absentee ballots, according to The Associated Press.
Early Wednesday morning, Trump claimed victory in the election, despite the fact the vote count was ongoing, and made unsubstantiated allegations of electoral fraud.     
“We'll be going to the U.S. Supreme Court. We want all voting to stop. We don't want them to find any ballots at 4 o'clock in the morning and add them to the list,” Trump said.  
Hans von Spakovsky, a former member of the Federal Election Commission and now with the conservative Heritage Foundation, said he expects legal disputes to contest “the counting of ballots, the rejection of absentee ballots, the extension of time for absentee ballots.”
In Pennsylvania, he said, Trump’s team will likely challenge the legality of a state Supreme Court ruling that mail-in ballots postmarked by Election Day can be counted if the Post Office delivers them in the days that follow.
Partisan divide
Whoever wins the presidency could face a divided Congress.
Democrats have failed, so far, in their efforts to win control of the Senate, where Republicans currently hold a 53-47 majority.
Democrats picked up seats in Colorado and Arizona, but lost a Democratic seat in Alabama, and failed to unseat what were expected to be vulnerable Republican Senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Susan Collins of Maine.
Three Senate races remain close, but the outcomes in some states, such as Georgia, which will hold a run-off election in January to choose a senator, will likely not be known for some time.
Democrats will retain control of the House of Representatives but did not expand their majority as projected by polls prior to the election.
If Trump wins a second term, it is unlikely there “will be much chance of bipartisanship,” as the president has had a contentious relationship with congressional Democrats, said John Aldrich, a professor of politics at Duke University.
Biden may be able to reach across the aisle, as he has emphasized in his campaign the need to heal the deep partisan divide in the nation, Aldrich said.
“To make progress, we have to stop treating our opponents as enemies. We are not enemies,” Biden said on Wednesday.
