Former Thunder Employee Charged In US Capitol Invasion ,, 03-02-2021

A former employee of the Oklahoma City Thunder NBA team is facing federal charges for allegedly storming the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6.
Danielle Nicole Doyle, 37, is charged in a four-count criminal complaint with knowingly entering a restricted building, knowingly engaging in disorderly conduct in a restricted building and two counts of violent entry on Capitol grounds.
She was taken into custody by the U.S. Marshal’s office and made an initial appearance last week in federal court in Oklahoma City, court records show. A judge set her bond at $10,000.
The Thunder confirmed Doyle worked for the team as an account manager until December 2020.
One of Doyle’s attorneys, Irven Box, said the four counts are all misdemeanors.
“She’s not charged with damaging anything in the Capitol or causing harm to anyone,” Box said. “She’s a fabulous young lady passionate about politics.”
According to an FBI agent’s affidavit, two of Doyle’s former co-workers told investigators they recognized her in video footage from the Capitol invasion. In one surveillance video, Doyle can be seen climbing through a Capitol window, according to the affidavit.
Doyle’s charges were first reported by The Oklahoman newspaper.
Doyle is the second Oklahoman to be charged in the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol by supporters of then-President Donald Trump. Andrew Craig Ericson, 23, of Muskogee was charged in January.


FBI: Bucyrus man involved in U.S. Capitol riot ,, 03-23-2021

BUCYRUS — A Crawford County man has been arrested on federal charges for his alleged involvement in the riot on Jan. 6 at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C.
Agents from the Cleveland Division of the FBI arrested Ethan C. Seitz, 31, Bucyrus, on Friday, March 19. He has been charged with two counts of knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority and one count of violent entry and disorderly conduct on capitol grounds.
Seitz made his initial appearance before Magistrate Judge Kathleen Burke of U.S. District Court in the Northern District of Ohio on March 19 and was released on bond. Terms of his bond prohibit him from traveling outside of the Northern District of Ohio except to attend court proceedings in Washington, D.C. He is scheduled to appear before the court in Washington, D.C. on March 24 via Zoom teleconference.
According to an FBI press release, two people who claim to know Seitz well reported to agents that the Bucyrus man posted photos, videos, and comments on Facebook stating that he had allegedly forced his way into the U.S. Capitol building during the Jan. 6 incident. Agents reported that Seitz posted various messages on his Facebook page, including “I’m goin in the capitol” and “I just climbed through a broken window.”
In another Facebook post, Seitz alleged that he “was inside upstairs in the capitol pushing with a group of people and they … gassed us again. And pepper sprayed us.” He claimed he climbed out of a window to escape the gas and then crawled back into the building through a broken window.
FBI agents stated that video footage from security cameras inside the U.S. Capitol building “appear to clearly depict Seitz inside the Capitol rotunda and connecting hallways during the invasion of the Capitol on January 6, 2021.”
Five people died during the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol, including Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick. Two other officers committed suicide several days after the attack occurred. More than 140 people were injured during the riot.
The FBI reported that more than 300 people have been arrested, including 65 people who have been charged with assaulting police officers. Last week, the FBI released new video clips seeking the public’s help identify 10 suspects allegedly involved in assaults on police officers.


Ohio resident accused of storming the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 in support of Trump ,, 03-22-2021

Federal authorities say a Bucyrus man breached the U.S. Capitol and joined a large crowd trolling the hallways Jan. 6 in support of then-President Donald Trump.
The charges against Ethan Seitz, 31, were unsealed late Friday. He is accused of knowingly entering a restricted building and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds. A federal magistrate in Akron transferred his case to U.S. District Court in Washington, D.C.
He is free on bond. Attempts to reach his attorney, Nathan Ray, and Seitz’s family members were unsuccessful.
A week after the siege, two cooperating witnesses told authorities that Seitz took part in the attack, according to an affidavit by FBI agent John Minichello. Facebook posts included photos and videos of Seitz’s progress as he passed police barricades and made his way into the Capitol, the affidavit shows.
Seitz is accused of joining thousands at the Capitol on the same day both chambers of Congress certified Joe Biden the winner of the November presidential election.
Many attended the “Stop the Steal” rally, held near the Capitol, that saw Trump give a heated speech that criticized Vice President Mike Pence for refusing to interfere with the largely ceremonial certification process. Video captured people chanting, “Hang Mike Pence.”
Pence and lawmakers evacuated the House and Senate chambers as insurrectionists ran through the building taking videos and pictures of themselves. Five people, including Brian Sicknick, a Capitol police officer, died in the riot.
The Facebook posts say Seitz and others went to Washington to send a message to lawmakers, according to the affidavit.
“There is a militia here that wants to storm the Capitol and take the building after Trump’s speech,” Seitz said in a message Jan. 6. Later, he chronicled his movements online, the document says.
“I’m going in the Capitol,” the FBI affidavit quoted Seitz as posting online. “I just climbed through a broken window.”
Internal security cameras “appear to clearly depict Seitz inside the Capitol rotunda and connecting hallways during the invasion of the Capitol on Jan. 6,” according to the document.
In a Facebook message, Seitz wrote: “The patriots in D.C. were here to show WE THE PEOPLE will not allow our country to be stolen,” according to the affidavit.
He said he confronted police and had “been gassed two or three times, and pepper-sprayed. I had to climb back out. I couldn’t breathe,” the FBI document says.
In another message, the affidavit says, Seitz described what he had done in the Capitol: “I didn’t break no laws. I didn’t destroy anything or hurt anybody. I didn’t even steal anything, which was really hard for me.”


Two arrested, charged with assaulting police officer Brian Sicknick, who died after Capitol riot ,, 03-15-2021

Authorities have arrested and charged two men with assaulting Brian Sicknick, the police officer who died as a result of the Jan. 6 pro-Trump invasion of the U.S. Capitol.
Julian Elie Khater, 32, of Pennsylvania, and George Pierre Tanios, 39, of West Virginia, were arrested Sunday and are accused of assaulting Sicknick and other officers with a substance similar to bear spray. They are not currently charged with killing Sicknick.
Senate Democrats are pushing for recurring stimulus checks
Supreme Court considers whether Goldman shareholders can sue
Elizabeth Warren slams Archegos Capital meltdown
In initial appearances before separate federal courts Monday afternoon, both men were ordered to be temporarily held behind bars pending future hearings.
Video footage of Khater and Tanios on Jan. 6 shows the two men “were working in concert and had a plan to use the toxic spray against law enforcement,” according to a search warrant affidavit in West Virginia federal court.
“Give me that bear s---,” Khater said before reaching into Tanios’ backpack, the affidavit alleges, citing “open source media video” of the incident outside the Capitol.
“Hold on, hold on, not yet, not yet ... its still early,” Tanios responded, the affidavit says.
At around 2:20 p.m., Khater, seen holding a white spray canister, walks toward a bike rack barrier outside the building, where a line of officers, including Sicknick, was stationed, the court document says.
Minutes later, Khater appears to raise the canister and aim it toward the officers, who were standing 5 to 8 feet away, according to the affidavit.
ReutersSicknick and two other officers “all react, one by one, to something striking them in the face,” the affidavit says. “The officers immediately retreat from the line, bring their hands to their faces and rush to find water to wash out their eyes,” it says.
“All three officers were incapacitated and unable to perform their duties for at least 20 minutes or longer while they recovered from the spray,” the affidavit says.
Sicknick died at approximately 9:30 p.m. on Jan. 7 due to the injuries he suffered during the riot, according to the U.S. Capitol Police. He had joined the USCP in 2008.
Both men were arrested Sunday. Khater was apprehended as he got off an airplane at Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey and Tanios was arrested at his home in West Virginia, according to a press release from the Department of Justice.
Khater and Tanios both face charges including assaulting federal officers with a dangerous weapon, conspiracy, obstructing an official proceeding, violence on restricted grounds and disorderly conduct, the Justice Department said.
The most serious charges carry 20-year maximum prison sentences.
“The attack on the U.S. Capitol and on our police officers, including Brian Sicknick, was an attack on our democracy,” acting Capitol Police Chief Yogananda Pittman said in a statement from USCP on Monday afternoon.
“Those who perpetrated these heinous crimes must be held accountable, and — let me be clear — these unlawful actions are not and will not be tolerated by this Department,” Pittman said.
The statement noted that a “multi-jurisdictional investigation” into Sicknick’s death is still active.
Khater and Tanios were allegedly among the thousands who stormed the Capitol or rioted outside the building, forcing a joint session of Congress to evacuate their chambers and delaying efforts to confirm President Joe Biden’s electoral victory over then-President Donald Trump.
The invasion by the pro-Trump mob resulted in five deaths. More than 300 people have so far been charged in connection with the riot, and prosecutors expect more charges are forthcoming.
The arrests were first reported by The Washington Post earlier Monday morning.


House impeachment manager Eric Swalwell sues Trump, Giuliani for allegedly inciting Capitol riot ,, 03-05-2021

Rep. Eric Swalwell, one of the House prosecutors during Donald Trump’s second impeachment trial, filed a lawsuit Friday against the former president, alleging he incited the deadly invasion of the U.S. Capitol.
The civil lawsuit from Swalwell, D-Calif., also accuses Donald Trump Jr., Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani and Rep. Mo Brooks, R-Ala., of being “wholly responsible for the injury and destruction” caused by the mob.
Swalwell’s 65-page lawsuit accuses the defendants of conspiring to block President Joe Biden’s election victory, inciting the Jan. 6 riot, aiding and abetting common-law assault, committing bias-related crimes, intentionally inflicting emotional distress and negligence.
The congressman demands a trial by jury in U.S. District Court in Washington.
The Senate last month acquitted Trump of one article of inciting the insurrection at the Capitol, which resulted in five deaths and forced a joint session of Congress into hiding.
Before the pro-Trump mob stormed the building, Trump held a rally outside the White House, where he repeated a slew of unfounded election-theft conspiracy claims and heaped pressure on Republicans to reject Biden’s victory. Trump Jr., Giuliani and Brooks also spoke at the “Stop the Steal” rally.
House managers, led by Jamie Raskin, D-Md., argued that Trump directly fomented the violence exhibited by his supporters. They failed to persuade two-thirds of the Senate, which is split between Republicans and Democrats, to vote to convict the former president.
Asked for comment on the lawsuit, Trump spokesman Jason Miller replied with a string of insults about Swalwell and accused him of “attacking our greatest President with yet another witch hunt.”
Giuliani did not immediately respond to CNBC’s request for comment on the suit. Swalwell’s legal complaint repeatedly points out that Giuliani declared, “Let’s have trial by combat!” in his speech to the pre-riot rally crowd on Jan. 6.
The lawsuit also cites comments made during that rally by Brooks. The Alabama congressman “told the crowd to start ‘kicking ass,‘” the court filing says, “and he spoke with reverence, at a purportedly peaceful demonstration, of how ‘our ancestors sacrificed their blood, sweat, their tears, their fortunes, and sometimes their lives,’ before shouting at the crowd ‘Are you willing to do the same?!’”
Swalwell’s lawsuit argues that Brooks “intended these words as a threat of violence or intimidation to block the certification vote from even occurring and/or to coerce members of Congress to disregard the results of the election.”
Brooks, in a statement to CNBC, said “I make no apologies whatsoever for fighting for accurate and honest elections.”
“In sum, I wear Communist-sympathizer Swalwell’s scurrilous and malicious lawsuit like a badge of courage,” Brooks’ statement said. “Under no circumstances will Swalwell, or any other Socialist, stop me from fighting for America.”
Swalwell’s legal action is the second lawsuit from a sitting member of Congress to blame Trump for inciting the deadly riot.
House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., and the NAACP last month filed their own suit against Trump and Giuliani, accusing them of conspiring to stop Congress from confirming Biden’s win.
Both lawsuits cite sections of the Ku Klux Klan Act of 1871, intended to protect against political violence and intimidation.
Thompson’s lawsuit also names as defendants the Proud Boys and the Oath Keepers, two groups whose members are known to have been among the thousands who stormed the Capitol complex.
Swalwell’s lawsuit argues that the mob attacked the Capitol “as a direct and foreseeable consequence of the Defendants’ false and incendiary allegations of fraud and theft, and in direct response to the Defendants’ express calls for violence at the rally.”
The managers had made the same argument in Trump’s second impeachment trial, much of which centered around whether it was constitutional to convict a former president. Many Republicans focused on that procedural issue, rather than try to defend Trump’s conduct explicitly.
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said after the trial that Trump is “still liable for everything he did while he was in office.”
“He didn’t get away with anything, yet,” said McConnell, who voted to acquit Trump.


Olympic champion Klete Keller pleads not guilty to charges over US Capitol riot ,, 03-10-2021

Olympic swimming champion Klete Keller has pleaded not guilty to seven charges over the invasion of the US Capitol by a pro-Donald Trump mob in January.
The charges against the 38-year-old, who won two relay gold medals as a teammate of Michael Phelps at the 2004 and 2008 Olympics, include civil disorder, disorderly conduct in a Capitol building, and entering and remaining in a restricted building or grounds. Keller entered the not-guilty pleas during a video hearing, and his next court appearance is due on 6 April.
Klete Keller: why did an Olympic champion invade the US Capitol?
Read more
In a criminal complaint, an FBI agent said the 6ft 6in Keller was easy to identify in video of the riot due to his height and the fact that he was wearing his Team USA jacket, “which also appears to bear a Nike logo on the front right side and a red and white Olympic patch on the front left side.”
Keller turned himself into authorities in January and was released without a bond. Keller deleted his social media accounts after news of the charges against him became public. Swimming website SwimSwam reported that prior to the deletion, Keller had written several posts in support of Trump.
In recent years, Keller has spoken about his struggles to adapt after his swimming career ended. “I found the real-world pressure much more intimidating and much more difficult to deal with because I went from swimming to having three kids and a wife within a year and so the consequences of not succeeding were very, very real and if I didn’t make a sale or if my manager was ticked off with me, or If I got fired - oh shoot, you have no health insurance. It’s very concrete,” he told an Olympic Channel podcast.
Trump became the first president in history to be impeached twice, after he incited the mob to invade the Capitol, although he was later acquitted after the Senate fell 10 votes short of the two-thirds majority required to convict high crimes and misdemeanors. Trump baselessly claimed he lost the presidential election because of voter fraud. Five people, including a Capitol police officer, died as a result of the ensuing violence.


Capitol police officer dies of apparent suicide days after invasion by pro-Trump mob ,, 01-10-2021

Authorities on Sunday announced the death of a 51-year-old Capitol Police officer. Two people familiar with the matter told the Associated Press that the officer’s death was an apparent suicide.
Officer Howard Liebengood had been assigned to the Senate Division and was with the department since 2005. He is the son of a former Senate sergeant-at-arms in the 1980's.
It was not clear whether his death was connected to Wednesday's events at the Capitol, when a pro-Trump mob looking to interrupt Congress's session to confirm electoral votes invaded the building.
The officials who spoke to the Associated Press were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. The USCP union did confirm Liebengood's death in a statement on Sunday, but did not mention the cause.
"We extend our deepest sympathies to Officer Liebengood’s family and we mourn the death of a friend and colleague who worked alongside us to protect the lives of the Members of Congress, their staff and all who serve at the U.S. Capitol," the statement says.
The statement also says Liebengood was among those who responded to the Capitol riot on Wednesday.
Another Capitol officer, Brian D. Sicknick, died after he was hit in the head with a fire extinguisher as rioters descended on the building and many other officers were injured.
A woman from California was shot to death by Capitol Police and three other people died after medical emergencies during the chaos.
In the aftermath of the events at the Capitol, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser wrote a letter requesting that the United States Department of Homeland Security boost its security preparations for the January 20 presidential inauguration to ensure the safety of those involved in the event.
In the January 9 letter, the mayor is requesting that the D.H.S. extend the National Special Security Event period to run from Monday, Jan. 11 to Sunday, Jan. 24. Bowser says this is an increase from the current period from Jan. 19 to Jan. 21 to allow for improved federal and D.C. government preparation for the inauguration.
The United States Capitol Police provided the following statement to ABC7:
The United States Capitol Police is deeply saddened by the off-duty death of Officer Howard Liebengood, age 51. He was assigned to the Senate Division, and has been with the Department since April 2005. Our thoughts and prayers go out to his family, friends, and colleagues. We ask that his family, and other USCP officers’ and their families’ privacy be respected during this profoundly difficult time.


N.J. farmer charged in Capitol attack got paycheck protection loan for business, records show ,, 03-21-2021

The company owned by a Gloucester County produce farmer charged in the Jan. 6 invasion of the U.S. Capitol received a loan through the federal government’s Paycheck Protection Program in the early months of the coronavirus pandemic, records show.
Ezekiel “Zeke” Stecher, of Mantua Township, was charged recently with five crimes related to the riot, including assault on a federal officer and violently entering the Capitol.
He is the principal of Stecher Farms, LLC, on Bridgeton Pike (Route 45), in the Sewell part of Mantua.
The business received $190,080 in April 2020 through the paycheck program, commonly referred to as PPP, according to multiple listings of companies that received the federal funds, including NJ Advance Media.
The PPP is credited with saving countless jobs and keeping businesses afloat as the pandemic shut down major sectors of the country’s economy.
The Stecher Farms loan retained 21 jobs, the listings show, and was funded through Republic Bank.
Businesses apply for the money through local banks and lenders, and they are backed by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). Borrowers may be eligible for loan forgiveness.
As of the end of last year, the PPP disbursed more than $13.7 billion to nearly 156,000 businesses and entities in New Jersey.
An SBA spokesman said the agent does not comment on individual applicants.
An attempt to reach Stecher was unsuccessful, and a woman who answered the phone at the farm this week said he was not there. A public defender represented Stecher at his hearing last week in Camden, but no current lawyer is listed for him in court records. He will be prosecuted in Washington, D.C.
The FBI alleges Stecher stormed into police lines at the Capitol and is seen in videos repeatedly pushing against police as the rioters squeeze and push through a narrow tunnel.
The agency learned of his presence at the Capitol from a video that was uploaded to an FBI tip line on Jan. 18, authorities said. Someone asks a man, “What is your name? Where are you from?” and he replies, “Zeke Stecher from New Jersey,” according to the complaint against him.
The FBI matched images of him at the Capitol with New Jersey motor vehicle records, including the drivers license it had on file for Stecher, an agent wrote in the complaint.
Agents then conducted an in-person interview with a local Sewell farmer who purchased produce from Stecher who said they’d known him for over 10 years. An agent showed the person still images from the video and the person identified Stecher as the man they know as “Zeke,” the FBI says in the complaint.
In 2013, NJ Advance Media’s South Jersey Times featured the Stecher farm. It described how Zeke and his wife Hillary Stecher worked together with their three children. They’d both grown up on farms; Zeke on their land, which had been his family since 1905, and Hillary on one in Burlington County.


Fourth Houston-area resident charged in US Capitol riot ,, 03-05-2021

A Houston man smashed a window with a hatchet and hurled a desk drawer and flagpole at law enforcement officers during the deadly Jan. 6 pro-Trump invasion of the U.S. Capitol, new court documents allege.
Following an investigation that was prompted by a tip from a stranger, FBI agents arrested Shane Leedon Jenkins on Friday morning at his northwest Houston home, the agency said. Jenkins marks the fourth Houston-area resident charged in connection with the Capitol attack as federal agents continue tracking down suspects.
Jenkins is charged in U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia with civil disorder, assaulting officers with a dangerous weapon, destruction of government property, entering or remaining in a restricted building or grounds, disorderly conduct in a restricted building or grounds and engaging in physical violence in a restricted building or grounds, according to a criminal complaint.
NEWS IN YOUR INBOX: Sign up for breaking news email alerts from HoustonChronicle.com here
In mid-January, an online sleuth filed an FBI tip with information about Jenkins' social media accounts and public videos showing his involvement in the riot, according to the complaint. The defendant appears in multiple photos and videos with a reddish-blonde beard, red beanie and blue hoodie, a tattoo under his right eye and a neck tattoo with the words, "MAMA TRIED."
Federal agents located a video showing Jenkins remove a metal survival hatchet from a backpack, put on black gloves and smash a window to the left of the Lower West Terrace tunnel, according to court records. The window repair cost roughly $1,500, officials said.
Security and body-worn camera footage shows Jenkins throw a pole, a desk drawer, a metal rod and flagpole at a group of Metropolitan Police Department and U.S. Capitol Police officers, striking some of them in the head as they attempted to prevent the crowd from infiltrating a tunnel, court documents allege.
A parole officer with the Texas Department of Criminal Justice helped federal agents verify Jenkins' identity in photos and videos.
The other Houston-area men charged for their participation in breaching Capitol grounds are bakery owner and Salvadorian native Wilmar Jeovanny Montano Alvarado; Tam Pham, a Houston police officer who has since resigned; and Joshua R. Lollar, a 39-year-old disabled veteran from Spring.


Hitler-Loving Capitol Rioter Would Like To Go Home Now, Please ,, 03-15-2021

“I’m not saying Hitler did nothing wrong, but did he do anything wrong?” accused Capitol rioter Timothy Hale-Cusinelli wondered on a February 2020 podcast. After January 6, he pulled that one off of YouTube and attempted to delete the pictures of himself sporting a distinctive mustache from his phone.
But he couldn’t delete his coworkers’ memories of the time he showed up at work LARPing as a Nazi. Ditto for his habit of asking all new hires if they were Jewish.
SPONSORED
In-Depth Coverage Of The Key Facets Of Immigration Law In The United States
Fragomen on Immigration Fundamentals supplements analysis of recent cases, policies and rules with practical guidance for both general practitioners and experienced immigration attorneys. Find out…
From PRACTISING LAW INSTITUTE
Thirty-three of Hale-Cusinelli’s coworkers told the FBI under oath that he was a virulently anti-semitic white supremacist who promised to leave his job “in a blaze of glory.” And while it’s not illegal to be a bigot, it probably won’t help bolster the claim that fomenting a race war and overthrowing the federal government was the farthest thing from Hale-Cusinelli’s mind as he directed a stream of protestors around the Capitol.
Hale-Cusinelli, a member of the United States Army Reserve and security contractor at Naval Weapons Station Earle, admitted to the FBI and Naval Criminal Investigation Services that he was at the Capitol on January 6 to stop Congress from certifying President Biden’s electoral win. He was recorded by an FBI informant rhapsodizing about “the adrenaline, the rush, the purpose” that he felt during the invasion and his regret that more “patriots” hadn’t been there to take over congress.
Defendant stated that it was “only a matter of time” before a civil war broke out “along partisan lines,” but that “they” don’t want to fire the first shot because all of the guns and resources are in Republican hands, and Republicans make up 70% of the military. Defendant then said that, in the event of civil war, “it’s not going to be New York and California winning the day, it’s going to be the good old boys from the Midwest, Texas, and Arkansas.” Defendant told CHS that he “really wishes” there would be a civil war. When CHS interrupted and said “but a lot of people would die,” Defendant replied “Thomas Jefferson said the tree of liberty should be refreshed with the blood of patriots and tyrants.”
A letter to the court from his supervisor saying that Hale-Cusinelli is a stand-up, not at all racist guy was contradicted by the supervisor’s own testimony to the FBI that he’d had to tell the defendant to quit being such a racist asshole at work.
And Hale-Cusinelli wants to be released into the care of a guy who got arrested with him in 2010 for “using a ‘potato gun’ made out of PVC pipe to shoot frozen corn at houses in Howell, New Jersey. The ‘potato gun’ was emblazoned with the words ‘WHITE IS RIGHT’ and a drawing of a confederate flag.” Alternatively, he’d like to be supervised by a female friend who appears to have engineered the false letter from Hale-Cusinelli’s supervisor and spends lots of time LOLing at his Hitler role play selfies and plans to destroy evidence.
SPONSORED
Keep It Simple: How SimpleLegal Is Transforming Legal Ops
Is your legal department having a hard time keeping up with the pressure and demands of e-billing? Thankfully, SimpleLegal has an easy solution. Read on…
From STEPHANIE WILKINS
This amazing correction the defendant’s lawyers were forced to make to the court records on March 2 is really the cherry on top.
A representation was made by a family member that Defendant was offered an honorable discharge from military service however, it has come to counsel’s attention that this was a mistaken representation and is not accurate. Defendant submits this correction to the Court.
Mistakes were made.
Perhaps it was a strategic error to boast that he could not possibly have been intending to commit crimes on January 6 because he “got dressed up in a suit and tie for the occasion,” when the government claims that “he hid the suit and tie that he wore to the Capitol at an undisclosed location before he was arrested; and he discussed with [the FBI informant] his intent to destroy additional evidence so as not to be arrested with it.”
Whether this will persuade the court to overrule the magistrate and order Hale-Cusinelli held in custody pending trial remains to be seen. The government urges U.S. District Judge Trevor N. McFadden to follow the precedents set by Judges Howell, Lamberth, and Kelly, his fellows on the federal bench in DC, and treat the invasion of the Capitol as inherently different from other crimes similarly charged.
Will Judge McFadden agree with his fellow Trump appointee Judge Thomas Kelly, who referred to the events on January 6 as a “unique attack on the crown jewels of our country, the peaceful transfer of power” when he overruled the magistrate to hold Proud Boy Dominic Pezzola in custody?
We’ll find out on March 23 when Hale-Cusinelli has his next hearing to determine whether he’ll be sporting his Nazi stache at home or as a guest of the federal government.
