Christmas 2004: Cassini Delivers a Very Special Gift ,, 20-12-2016

December 24, 2004, was no silent night in the Space Flight Operations Facility at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Members of the Cassini team, clad in Santa hats and nibbling red and green peanut M&Ms, gathered in the control room for a mission-critical task -- releasing the European Huygens probe from its berth and sending it toward an historic rendezvous with Saturn's giant moon, Titan.
"The mood was incredibly festive," said Julie Webster, Cassini's chief engineer.
But, as with any critical spacecraft maneuver, there was tension in the room.
"The mood was tempered with a cautious optimism as we waited for one of the most crucial events of the mission; a successful probe release," said Earl Maize, Cassini's current program manager and a deputy project manager at the time.
After a busy month of preparation, mission planners called a "go" for release of the probe from its berth on the Cassini orbiter on Dec. 24, 2004 at 6 p.m. PST (2 a.m. UTC on December 25). The maneuver put Huygens on course for a 20-day cruise to Titan and a Jan. 14, 2005 touchdown on the moon's then mysterious surface -- the most distant landing in our solar system to date.
"With a good release, Huygens would be perfectly targeted for Titan entry. A bad release would compromise or potentially cost us the mission," Maize said.
After the release, the team took a moment for themselves.
"We at JPL enjoyed a meal together before resuming the holidays with our families," Maize said.
"I still have the printout of the telemetry that showed probe release signed by the engineering team," Webster said.
But there was little time to rest on their laurels.
With Huygens coasting toward Titan, the team shifted to an even bigger task -- capturing and relaying the precious data Huygens was to send back during its long descent through Titan's mysterious, hazy atmosphere. A moment they had been working toward for nearly two decades was now just less than three weeks ahead.


Tasmanians enjoy white Christmas ,, 12-25-2006

The chill on Hobart's Mount Wellington yesterday did not deter people who wanted to experience a white Christmas.
Scores drove to the peak to play in the snow, as the temperature dropped to a low of minus two.
The Bureau of Meteorology says temperatures around the state on Christmas Day were between five and 11 degrees below average - 13 in Hobart and for Launceston, 18.
Hobart's snow-peaked mountain proved a big attraction for families.
"Thirty-one degrees one day and now one degrees today, unbelievable, snow on Christmas Day, it's fabulous," said one reveller.
The snow was also a novelty for visitors from the northern hemisphere.
"Well, we booked this holiday from the UK expecting really warm weather in Australia, and here we are having one of our only ever white Christmases."
It was warmest on the east coast, where the temperature reached 19 at St Helens and Scamander.


Christmas Blizzard Blows Through Oklahoma City's Snow Budget ,, 12-29-2009

City leaders have already spent this year's winter budget and are now looking at ways to stretch their existing resources to keep residents safe during this season's winter weather.
The winter weather has started to take a toll on the city's budget and the staffers who continue to work around the clock to clear the roadways. As another winter blast bears down on Oklahoma, city workers continue their around-the-clock shifts.
Trending Articles
The following is a list of the most commented articles in the last 7 days.
A trending article titled "Family Of Inmate Killed In Hostage Situation Says Jail Conditions To Blame For His Behavior" with 3 comments.
Family Of Inmate Killed In Hostage Situation Says Jail Conditions To Blame For His Behavior
"We're going back to run the rest of our plow routes. We're going northwest. I guess they have crews in all quadrants," said Jud Rauch, who is a street crew worker.
Rauch was one of 30 drivers waiting in line as workers dumped a salt sand mixture into his truck Tuesday. William Bryles was in the truck just ahead of him.
"Right now, we're just going out, checking a couple of spots and waiting for this next event to come in," Bryles said.
But now city officials have to become creative and find ways to make their material last through the rest of the winter.
"I have about $125,000 that I am budgeted to buy materials. I spent that in July of this year," said Mike DeGiacomo, Oklahoma City Street Superintendent.
DeGiacomo said the city wasn't prepared to deal with the 14 inches of snow last week's blizzard dumped on the metro, primarily because the city doesn't have enough trucks, and it didn't buy enough salt. Doing so would require more money, and even then there's no guarantee DeGiacomo would get it.
"I'm not the only one that's trying to restock my supply. So what we try to do is try to use the resources we've got as best we can," DeGiacomo said.
That would include mixing what DeGiacomo calls hot sand with the remaining 4,300 tons of salt to extend the supply. Crews spend their days putting the mixture together before dumping it into the 30 waiting trucks who will then spread the mixture throughout the metro.
Many cities in the metro haven't had time to calculate the dollars they've spent cleaning up the mess. The City of Edmond said it normally spends about 10 percent of its supply budget for salt and sand. However, city officials said they've already spent that money on cleaning up last week's storm.
"The snow and ice certainly takes its toll on our streets and requires asphalt and concrete to repair it. It's a double edged sword. We'll have to really be looking at the numbers and see where we come out," said Keith Stewart, Edmond Field Services Superintendent.


West Webster remembers 2012 Christmas Eve tragedy ,, 12-25-2017

Christmas Eve day marked the 5th anniversary of the tragedy in West Webster where two firefighters were killed in an ambush, and three other people were injured.
Wreaths and candles were placed along Lake Road by firefighters on the morning of Christmas Eve.  A memorial service began at 5:36 a.m., coinciding with the time of the first 911 call.
Firefighters rang a bell of remembrance in honor of the two fallen firefighters.
“I think this stretch of road has a place in people`s minds, especially for our members as to what happened that day,”  West Webster Fire Department PIO Matthew Sauers told Spectrum News.
Michael Chiapperini and Tomasz Koczowka were killed in the 2012 shooting. The two were heading to a call on Lake Road when they were killed by gunman William Spengler.
Two other firefighters, Joseph Hostetter and Ted Scardino, were injured as was Greece police Officer Jon Ritter.
According to police, Spengler also shot and killed his sister before turning the gun on himself.


UK troops mark last Christmas in Afghanistan ,, 12-25-2013

Some 5,000 British service personnel are spending Christmas in Afghanistan, along with tens of thousands of other international forces.
This is expected to be the British forces' final year in Afghanistan, with all combat troops expected to have withdrawn from Afghanistan by this time next year.
Karen Allen reports from Camp Bastion.


THE STORY OF CHRISTMAS IN JAPAN ,, 12-23-2013

The Christmas season is a widely anticipated time all around the world. Each country and region celebrates Christmas in different ways. In Japan, Buddhism and Shinto religious beliefs are predominantly practiced by most Japanese, but Christmas is still celebrated. Several Western customs have also caught on such as giving out presents and sending and receiving Christmas cards.
Christmas in Japan is more a time to spread the joy of the season rather than a religious celebration. In fact, Christmas in Japan is considered a romantic occasion, much like Valentine’s Day, where couples spend the evenings together strolling along streets lit with beautiful Christmas lights.Shinjuku Terrace City Illumination
Couples have a romantic meal and then exchange gifts. Other Japanese families love to celebrate their Christmas by serving Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC) and a Christmas cake at the dinner table.
Christmas was first introduced to Japan during the Sengoku period, or the “Warring States Period” (15th – 17th century). This was a time of social upheaval among Japanese warlords. The missionary Francis Xavier introduced Christianity to Japan. The first Christmas service was held in 1552 and to honor the holiday spirit, donations were given to the less privileged farmers. The Tokugawa Shogunate was a new era of isolation to Japan that led to widespread persecution of Christians for fear that they might attempt to overthrow the new government. This resulted in the crucifixion of 26 Christians and the outward disappearance of public practice of the Christian faith.Christmas cake (Strawberry sponge cake)
The Meiji Restoration restored imperial rule to Japan in 1868 under Emperor Meiji. Christianity was again allowed in Japan in 1873. Christianity at the time meant large lavish parties for visiting foreigners. Santa Claus was introduced a year later.
Japanese department stores began putting up Christmas trees in 1904 and a few years later, stores began selling Christmas cakes. By the 1930s, the Christmas shopping season was a much anticipated event.
The 1980s brought in a sudden boost to the Japanese economy. Yuppies had money to burn and many corporations took advantage through commercialism. Trendsetting magazines geared towards the younger generation advertised the concept of Christmas as being a day for romance, hence the Japanese concept of Christmas equals Romance.
No matter how Christmas is celebrated around the world, its meaning is universal – giving thanks and spreading the love. Merry Christmas, everyone!


Disinformation about Public Celebrations for Christmas 2008 in London being Banned because of Muslims ,, 01-25-2018

On January 15, in an interview with the newspaper Kviris Palitra "What are we looking for in Europe – monuments made out of excrement or Michelangelo?!" Georgian writer Kote Jandieri criticised liberal values for their dogmatic worldview on sensitive issues. To illustrate his argumentation he cited the case of London in 2008, when a ban on all public events related to Christmas was enacted for the purpose of not angering and appeasing the city’s Muslim population. According to Kote Jandieri’s comment, the famous Soviet dissident Vladimir Bukovsky writes about the issue.
Kote Jandieri, writer: “According to Bukovsky, in 2008 London, all public events associated with Christmas celebrations were restricted, as the British flag displays St. George's cross, and it would remind Muslims of the Crusades and cause animosity. Meanwhile the British Muslims did not ask anything of the sort but nobody asked their opinion on this matter.”
Kviris Palitra, issue for the week of 15-21 January
The claim that public prohibitions against Christmas in 2008 were enacted to prevent irritation from Muslims in London is false. Furthermore, there is no regulation which prohibits Christmas celebrations in Britain and the use of the National Flag of England.
The Myth Detector contacted the Department of Culture, Media and Sport of the United Kingdom Government, which stated that the fact that none of the cases had occurred in 2008 or later, and that the above mentionned statement is lacking any factual basis.
According to the Department, there is no regulation in the United Kingdom that prohibits the holding of Christmas events and the use of the National Flag.
In 2008 Christmas was celebratedin London as per usual. The celebration of Christmas in the history of Great Britain was banned only once in 1644, 3 centuries ago, when the Puritans who ruled Britain at the time viewed Christmas festivities as inadmissible for their Christian values, so banned them by the issue of a Parliamentary Act. In 1660, when the Monarchy was restored in England, all legislation passed during 1642-1660 was revoked and the observance of Christmas festivities was restored with its religious and secular elements.
In the interview with the Kviris Palitra, Kote Jandieri quotes Vladimir Bukovsky's words inaccurately. In 2009, the famous Soviet dissident Vladimir Bukovsky delivered a lecture on "Is political correctness worse than Leninism?" in Sofia, capital city of Bulgaria. During his speech Bukovsky noted:
Vladimir Bukovsky, Soviet dissident: "Last year, all public attributes of Christmas were banned in England. Christmas festivities in our country is prohibited in public space. If you have the will go and celebrate in your household, but the Christmas festival is limited in public space because it could be offensive to Muslims. Than ban also the English National Flag (St. George's flag, red cross on white background and not the flag of Great Britain)".


Slade and Wizzard's 1973 Christmas rivalry resumes ,, 12-18-2013

In 1973, Wizzard and Slade were two of the biggest bands in the UK- one from Birmingham, the other from Wolverhampton - and both were battling it out in December for the highly prized Christmas number one.
Forty years later and the battle seemed to resume with Wizzard lead singer Roy Wood and Slade performing at different venues in Birmingham, a few hundred yards apart, on the same night.
Between them that year, they had five number ones and released two of the biggest Christmas hits of all time.
In the end Slade won the chart battle and got to the Christmas number one slot.
Band members Don Powell and Dave Hill said it was recorded during a boiling hot summer in New York in 1973.
Roy Wood, from Wizzard, said: "Neither of us knew the other was doing a Christmas song. Strange.
"Any other year, it would've been great."


Sweden's giant Gavle goat survives Christmas ,, 12-28-2017

There is extra Christmas cheer in the Swedish town of Gavle this year because its annual giant straw goat has survived for more than three weeks.
Last year's goat fell victim to an arsonist on 27 November, less than 24 hours after it had been erected.
Standing 13 metres (43ft) tall, it is the world's biggest straw goat.
Most of its incarnations have been burnt or vandalised since 1966, when the tradition began.
However this year, the goat is still sending merry tweets.
Maria Wallberg, who handles the goat's public relations, said: "It's great that he has been left standing for so long."
She said new higher and double fences had kept intruders away.
This year a non-profit organisation, X-Cons Gavleborg, also deployed volunteers to protect the goat, she told the BBC.
News site The Local has compiled a list of the "weirdest attacks" on the yule goat, including an attempted kidnapping via helicopter and the time a person dressed as a gingerbread man shot it with flaming arrows.
You might also be interested in:
US officer punches ice pond to rescue boy
Life inside a town called Santa Claus
Anyone in Melbourne lost a crocodile?
By tradition, the goat effigy goes up in Gavle, 158km (98 miles) north of Stockholm, on the first Sunday of Christian Advent.
This year it has been standing since 3 December, and the town hopes the 3.6-tonne effigy will survive until 2 January.


Germany's Gauck urges welcome for refugees in Christmas speech ,, 12-24-2014

Germany's president has called for refugees to be welcomed in a speech due to be broadcast on Christmas Day.
Joachim Gauck also praised Germans who have sheltered and cared for around 200,000 new refugees this year.
Many see his message as an indirect attack on a new anti-immigration group called Patriotic Europeans against the Islamisation of the West, or Pegida.
It has been running weekly rallies in Dresden since October. On Monday, a record 17,500 people took part.
Counter-demonstrations
Mr Gauck urged Germans "not to be afraid" of the world around them and said he was encouraged by those who do not "want to seal Germany off".
"Where we can contribute to maintaining peace or alleviate suffering so that we can build a better future, then we should do everything in our power to do so," he added.
Although Pegida has seen a surge in support, several counter-demonstrations have also taken place.
Chancellor Angela Merkel and other senior politicians have spoken out against the Pegida rallies.
Germany has become Europe's main destination for asylum-seekers, many of whom are from Muslim-majority countries such as Syria and Iraq.
Thousands of Germans have also taken in refugees privately, Reuters reports.
