1st known case of coronavirus traced back to November in China ,, 03-14-2020

A 55-year-old individual from Hubei province in China may have been the first person to have contracted COVID-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus spreading across the globe. That case dates back to Nov. 17, 2019, according to the South China Morning Post.
That's more than a month earlier than doctors noted cases in Wuhan, China, which is in Hubei province, at the end of December 2019. At the time, authorities suspected the virus stemmed from something sold at a wet market in the city. However, it's now clear that early in what is now a pandemic, some infected people had no connection to the market. That included one of the earliest cases from Dec. 1, 2019 in an individual who had no link to that seafood market, researchers reported Jan. 20 in the journal The Lancet.
Scientists now suspect this coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, originated in a bat and somehow hopped to another animal, possibly the pangolin, which then passed it on to humans. The disease is now spreading between people without any animal intermediary.
Now, doctors and scientists are trying to trace the virus back to where it originated to learn more about its spread. If, for instance, doctors can find the earliest cases, they may be able to identify the animal host where the virus lurks.
They found that following the Nov. 17 case, about one to five new cases were reported every day and by Dec. 15, the total infections reached 27. Daily cases seem to have increased after that, with the case count reaching 60 by Dec. 20, the SCMP reported.
On Dec. 27, Dr. Zhang Jixian, head of the respiratory department at Hubei Provincial Hospital, reported to health officials in China that a novel coronavirus was causing the disease; by that day, it had infected more than 180 individuals. (Doctors may not have been aware of all of those cases at the time, but only identified those cases after going back over the records, the Morning Post reported.)
Even with this Nov. 17 case identified, doctors can't be certain the individual is "patient zero," or the very first individual to have been infected with SARS-CoV-2, and there's a chance even earlier cases will be found, the SCMP reported.
As of March 13, there were nearly 148,000 cases globally and more than 81,000 cases in mainland China, with cases on every continent except Antarctica. Scientists are continuing to study the virus and work on treatments, including a vaccine. A clinical trial of such a vaccine has already started recruiting volunteers in Seattle, Live Science reported.


"It's happening": First COVID vaccine doses to arrive in EU member states on December 26 ,, 12-24-2020

COVID-19 vaccines are being prepared for shipment to European Union member states, the Commission confirmed on Thursday.
"It's happening: COVID-vaccines are being sent to all EU countries," Isaac Valero, assistant to the Commission's Secretary-General, said on Twitter.
Member states will each receive approximately 10.000 doses for this first delivery on December 26, the Commission told Euronews.
Deliveries will continue in December and on a steady weekly basis during the following months. Brussels has previously said member states would be allocated doses based on their population size.
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) authorised the emergency use of the jab developed by Pfizer and BioNtech on Monday and EU countries will start their vaccination campaigns from Sunday.
COVID variant is likely in most European countries already, says expert.
Which parts of Europe are likely to be most hesitant about a COVID-19 vaccine?
Brussels has struck several Advance Purchase Agreements for COVID-19 vaccines and secured up to 300 million doses of the Pfizer-BioNtech vaccine — the only one approved so far by European authorities.
This means up to 150 million Europeans can receive it as two shots are required for it to be more than 90 per cent effective.
The Commission expects the distribution of the first 200 million doses to be completed by September 2021, and is currently "working to activate the additional 100 million doses," it told Euronews.
The EMA has also brought forward its review of the Moderna vaccine to January 6. The Commission has struck a contract with the US company to purchase up to 160 million doses — enough to vaccinate a further 80 million Europeans.


Europe is now the "epicenter" of the coronavirus pandemic, WHO says ,, 03-13-2020

Europe has become the new epicenter of the COVID-19 pandemic as cases in China slow and the deadly coronavirus runs through Italy and nearby countries, World Health Organization officials said Friday.
“More cases are now being reported [in Europe] every day than were reported in China at the height of its epidemic,” WHO Director-General Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said at a news conference at the organization’s Geneva headquarters.
WHO officials declared COVID-19 a global pandemic on Wednesday as the virus spreads rapidly across the world from Asia to Europe, the Middle East and now parts of the United States.
“When the virus is out there, the population has no immunity and no therapy exists, then 60% to 70% of the population will be infected,” German Chancellor Angela Merkel told a news conference in Berlin on Wednesday, according to Reuters. The country has a population of more than 82 million.
Emerging from Wuhan, China, less than three months ago, the virus has spread to more than 132,000 people across 123 countries and territories with 5,000 people dead, WHO officials said. The number of new cases in China has slowed to a trickle, with 26 new cases reported Thursday, according to WHO data, while cases in Europe have exploded overnight.
“China has certainly peaked and there is certainly a decline but there’s always a chance” that could rise again, said Dr. Maria Van Kerkhove, head of WHO’s emerging diseases and zoonosis unit.
Italy currently has the most cases outside of China with at least 15,113 infections, followed by Spain at 4,334, Germany at 3,156 and France at 2,882, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University. Other countries in Europe are seeing cases soar. Switzerland currently has 1,125 cases, followed by Sweden at 809, the Netherlands at 804 and Denmark at 788.
The United States had at least 1,701 cases as of Friday morning, according to Hopkins.
President Donald Trump announced a ban on travel from Europe earlier this week. The ban excludes some countries and will be in effect for the next 30 days.
Tedros said countries need to take a comprehensive approach to try to fight the pandemic.
“Not testing alone, not contact tracing alone, not quarantine alone, not social distancing alone, do it all,” he said. “Any country that looks at the experience of other countries with large epidemics and thinks that won’t happen to us is making a deadly mistake, it can happen to any country.”
Social distancing only slightly “slows down the virus so your health system can cope,” said Dr.  Mike Ryan, executive director of WHO’s health emergencies program.
“The virus will always get you if you don’t move quickly,” Ryan said, discussing lessons health officials learned from the Ebola outbreak.


Coronavirus arrived in New York from Europe, at least a month before city's first confirmed case ,, 04-10-2020

Coronavirus was likely circulating in New York at least a month before the city's first confirmed case and was brought to the city by travellers from Europe. Rather than China, where the virus originated, researchers say.
A study led by Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai (ISMMS) researchers, found the virus was likely circulating as early as late January in the New York City area, while the first case of the virus was only identified in the city at the end of February.
New York has become one of the major centres of Covid-19, the disease caused by the Sars-CoV-2 virus, with the death toll topping 5000 by Saturday morning.
More than 5000 people have died in New York as a result of coronavirus infection. Now research is showing the virus was brought to the city by people arriving from Europe.
To find out when the coronavirus reached New York, and where it came from, researchers sequenced 90 Sars-CoV-2 genomes from 84 confirmed Covid-19 positive cases within the Mount Sinai Health System.
READ MORE:
* Coronavirus: 24 hours in the fight to save New York
* Coronavirus: How do viruses mutate and jump to different species?
* Coronavirus: How Germany's early response led to less deaths than European neighbours
The team then analysed those sequences together with all 2363 publicly available Sars-CoV-2 genomes from around the world to determine the most likely origin of the strains infecting the patients involved.
With more than 20,000 cases in the city, they are hoping to get patients into newly built field hospitals as soon as possible.
The analysis indicated "multiple independent but isolated introductions mainly from Europe and other parts of the United States".
"These results show that Sars-CoV-2 came to the New York City area predominately via Europe through untracked transmissions." ISMMS Professor of Microbiology and Infectious Diseases Viviana Simon said.
"Only one of the cases studied was infected with a virus that was a clear candidate for introduction from Asia, and that virus is most closely related to viral isolates from Seattle, Washington.


MEPs share concerns about COVID-19 variants ,, 03-15-2021

On Monday, Members of the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety Committee debated with experts on the efficacy of vaccines against mutations of the COVID-19 virus.
Representatives from the European Medicines Agency (EMA), the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) and the World Health Organisation (WHO) updated MEPs on the state of play of existing COVID-19 variants. They shared information regarding how effective authorised vaccines are against different variants, and discussed global challenges and the need for a global coordinated response to addressing variants.
MEPs expressed their concerns regarding fast-spreading variants, especially given the vaccination rate across the EU remains lower than expected. They lamented the lack of data available on the efficacy of administered vaccines. Certain member states have a low or no capacity to analyse virus samples (“genomic sequencing”), many MEPs said, which means the spread of variants and their impact cannot be adequately monitored. Members also quizzed the experts on the authorisation process for updated vaccines, on the role of vaccination certificates, and on the safety and side effects of existing vaccines.
During the meeting, Commission Deputy Director-General for Health Pierre Delsaux presented the Commission’s communication on the HERA Incubator, a project designed to monitor variants, exchange data and cooperate on adapting vaccines. The Commission has proposed to amend the current regulatory procedure in order to allow for COVID-19 vaccines that are adapted to new variants to be approved more quickly.
You can watch the recording of the debate here and the video statement of Committee Chair, Pascal Canfin (Renew, FR) here.
Background
All viruses – including SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19 – evolve over time. These changes are called “mutations”. A virus with one or more new mutations is referred to as a “variant” of the original virus. The ECDC’s latest risk assessment states that variants are more easily transmitted and more severe. Existing licensed COVID-19 vaccines may therefore be only partially effective or significantly less effective against a variant. For this reason, the risk associated with further spread of COVID-19 is currently assessed as “high to very high”.
According to the WHO, COVID-19 vaccines currently being developed or already approved are expected to provide at least some protection against new variants of the virus. In the event that any of these vaccines prove to be less effective against one or more variants, the composition of the vaccines can be adapted to protect against these variants.


More than 600 nurses die from COVID-19 worldwide ,, 06-03-2020

ICN implores governments to collect accurate data on nurse infections and deaths and act to protect their health and save lives
The International Council of Nurses (ICN) is again calling on governments to record the number of infections and deaths among healthcare staff, and take whatever measures are needed to protect nurses from COVID-19.
Worldwide, there is no systematic and standardised record of the number of nurses and healthcare workers (HCWs) who have contracted the disease or died from it.
But ICN’s analysis, based on data from our National Nursing Associations, official figures and media reports from a limited number of countries, indicates that more than 230,000 HCWs have contracted the disease, and more than 600 nurses have now died from the virus.
ICN CEO Howard Catton said:
“For weeks now we have been asking for data about infections and deaths among nurses to be collected. We need a central database of reliable, standardised, comparable data on all infections, periods of quarantine and deaths that are directly or indirectly related COVID-19. Countries need clear reporting and monitoring mechanisms, and they should also include incidents of psychological, sexual and physical violence against healthcare workers.
‘Without this data we do not know the true cost of COVID-19, and that will make us less able to tackle other pandemics in the future. Florence Nightingale knew the importance of data in the fight against disease, and its lack in this case is potentially costing the lives of many nurses, devastating their families, and cutting off their careers in their prime. This must not be allowed to continue and ICN demands that action is taken now to put this situation right.”
ICN’s analysis shows that on average 7% of all Covid-19 cases worldwide are among HCWs, which means that nurses and other staff are at great personal risk, and so are the patients they care for.
Extrapolating ICN’s 7% figure to cover all the world’s countries means that around 450,000 of the world’s over six million cases could be among HCWs.
The proportion of infected people who are HCWs varies widely between countries. However, many countries are not recording this data, which makes meaningful international comparisons extremely challenging.
The figures, although partial and preliminary, raise a number of questions that could be answered if all countries kept comprehensive standardised data, and if these were collated centrally on a global scale.
These include:
What contributes to the variation of HCW infection rates between countries with a range between 1% in Singapore and more than 30% in Ireland?
Why are some countries that have high numbers of cases recording low numbers of deaths among HCWs? For example, Germany and Spain.
Why do the rates of deaths among nurses appear higher in some Latin American countries?
Why are some countries reporting disproportionate deaths among black, Asian and minority ethnic HCWs? This is an issue raised directly by the Philippine Nurses Association to ICN, concerning Filipino HCWs in the UK.
How do HCW infection rates vary between different clinical settings, such as hospitals and long-term care facilities such as care homes?
ICN Chief Executive Officer Howard Catton said:
“Nursing is looking like one of the most dangerous jobs in the world at the moment. We need to get this data for every country and work out exactly what is going on that explains the variations that are evident with even a cursory glance at the figures. Only then will we be able to learn how best to keep our nurses safe and prevent any repeat of these terrible statistics in the future.”


Oxford Covid-19 vaccine trial results ,, 02-07-2021

The Wits Vaccines and Infectious Diseases Analytics (VIDA) Research Unit, which runs the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine trial in South Africa, has announced results.
In an analysis, submitted as a pre-print prior to peer-review publication, a two-dose regimen of the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine provides minimal protection against mild-moderate COVID-19 infection from the B.1.351 coronavirus variant first identified in South Africa in mid-November 2020.
Efficacy against severe COVID-19 infection from this variant was not assessed. The analyses being submitted in the pre-print show the vaccine had high efficacy against the original coronavirus non-B.1.351 variants in South Africa.
Researchers from South Africa and the UK found that viral neutralisation by sera induced by the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 coronavirus vaccine against the B.1.351 coronavirus variant were substantially reduced when compared with the ‘original’ strain of the coronavirus.
These early data, which will be submitted for scientific peer-review, appear to confirm the theoretical observation that mutations in the virus seen in South Africa will allow ongoing transmission of the virus in vaccinated populations, as has been recently reported in those with prior infection.
In this study of approximately 2,000 volunteers where the median age was 31 years old, mild disease was defined as at least one symptom of COVID-19. Protection against moderate-severe disease, hospitalisation or death could not be assessed in this study as the target population were at low risk.
Work is already underway at the University of Oxford and in conjunction with partners to produce a 2nd generation of the vaccine which has been adapted to target variants of the coronavirus with mutations similar to B.1.351, if it should prove necessary to do so.
Shabir Madhi, Professor of Vaccinology and Director of the Vaccines & Infectious Diseases Analytics (VIDA) Research Unit at University of the Witwatersrand, and Chief Investigator on the trial in South Africa, said:
'Recent data from a study in South Africa sponsored by Janssen which assessed moderate to severe disease, rather than mild disease, using a similar viral vector, indicated that protection against these important disease endpoints was preserved. This could be relevant to the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine, which has been developed using similar technology as the Janssen vaccine, and for which vaccine induced immune responses are also similar.
‘These findings also force us to recalibrate thinking about how to approach the pandemic virus and shift the focus from the aspirational goal of herd immunity against transmission to the protection of all at risk individuals in population against severe disease.’
Andrew Pollard, Professor of Paediatric Infection and Immunity, and Chief Investigator on the Oxford vaccine trial, said:
‘This study confirms that the pandemic coronavirus will find ways to continue to spread in vaccinated populations, as expected, but, taken with the promising results from other studies in South Africa, such as those using a similar viral vector, vaccines may continue to ease the toll on health care systems by preventing severe disease.’
Sarah Gilbert, Professor of Vaccinology at the University of Oxford said:
‘Efforts are underway to develop a new generation of vaccines that will allow protection to be redirected to emerging variants as booster jabs, if it turns out that it is necessary to do so.’
‘We are working with AstraZeneca to optimise the pipeline required for a strain change should one become necessary. This is the same issue that is faced by all of the vaccine developers, and we will continue to monitor the emergence of new variants that arise in readiness for a future strain change.’
Note: these findings are early preliminary data, which have been submitted for peer review and will appear as a pre-print in the days ahead.
About the Wits Vaccines & Infectious Diseases Analytics (VIDA) Research Unit
Formerly known as the Respiratory and Meningeal Pathogens Research Unit (RMPRU) and founded in 1995, the Vaccines and Infectious Diseases Analytics (VIDA) Research Unit of the University of the Witwatersrand (Wits) is an internationally recognised, African-led research unit in the field of epidemiology of vaccine preventable diseases, and clinical development of life-saving vaccines.
Under the guidance of Professor Shabir Madhi, a global leader in the field of paediatric infectious diseases and the Dean of the Faculty of Health Sciences at Wits University, Wits VIDA is conducting translational research on vaccine preventable diseases and training the next generation of clinician scientists. Combining clinical, microbiological and epidemiological expertise in an African setting, Wits VIDA’s cutting-edge scientific research informs local and global policy recommendations on the use of next-generation and novel vaccines today. In addition to various other studies on COVID-19, Wits VIDA championed and led the first two COVID-19 vaccine trials in Africa in 2020, for the Oxford and Novavax vaccine candidates.


Artificial intelligence model detects asymptomatic Covid-19 infections through cellphone-recorded coughs ,, 10-29-2020

Asymptomatic people who are infected with Covid-19 exhibit, by definition, no discernible physical symptoms of the disease. They are thus less likely to seek out testing for the virus, and could unknowingly spread the infection to others.
But it seems those who are asymptomatic may not be entirely free of changes wrought by the virus. MIT researchers have now found that people who are asymptomatic may differ from healthy individuals in the way that they cough. These differences are not decipherable to the human ear. But it turns out that they can be picked up by artificial intelligence.
In a paper published recently in the IEEE Journal of Engineering in Medicine and Biology, the team reports on an AI model that distinguishes asymptomatic people from healthy individuals through forced-cough recordings, which people voluntarily submitted through web browsers and devices such as cellphones and laptops.
The researchers trained the model on tens of thousands of samples of coughs, as well as spoken words. When they fed the model new cough recordings, it accurately identified 98.5 percent of coughs from people who were confirmed to have Covid-19, including 100 percent of coughs from asymptomatics — who reported they did not have symptoms but had tested positive for the virus.
The team is working on incorporating the model into a user-friendly app, which if FDA-approved and adopted on a large scale could potentially be a free, convenient, noninvasive prescreening tool to identify people who are likely to be asymptomatic for Covid-19. A user could log in daily, cough into their phone, and instantly get information on whether they might be infected and therefore should confirm with a formal test.
“The effective implementation of this group diagnostic tool could diminish the spread of the pandemic if everyone uses it before going to a classroom, a factory, or a restaurant,” says co-author Brian Subirana, a research scientist in MIT’s Auto-ID Laboratory.
Subirana’s co-authors are Jordi Laguarta and Ferran Hueto, of MIT’s Auto-ID Laboratory.


STH STATEMENT ON ASTRAZENECA COVID-19 VACCINE AND THROMBOSIS ,, 03-12-2021

The International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis (ISTH) recommends that all eligible adults continue to receive their COVID-19 vaccinations, despite the recent decisions by Denmark, Norway and Iceland to at least temporarily suspend the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine due to reports of thrombosis.
At this time, the small number of reported thrombotic events relative to the millions of administered COVID-19 vaccinations does not suggest a direct link. Thrombotic events are common in the general population and have not previously been associated with vaccination. At present, we do not know whether the timing of the blood clots with vaccination is coincidental or whether vaccination may in rare cases increase the risk of thrombosis. Importantly, well-conducted clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccinations did not identify an increased risk of thrombosis.
Based on all available data, the ISTH believes that the benefits of COVID-19 vaccination strongly outweigh any potential complications even for patients with a history of blood clots or for those taking blood thinning medications. It also recommends that everyone review the signs and symptoms of blood clots, including: leg pain, swelling, tenderness or redness of the skin associated with deep vein thrombosis (DVT); as well as difficulty breathing, chest pain or discomfort, faster than normal or irregular heartbeat, coughing up blood and low blood pressure, light-headedness or fainting associated with pulmonary embolism (PE). Individuals with co-existing medical conditions may wish to consult their physician.
What does this mean for the patient community?
Based on currently available data, the ISTH believes that the benefits of COVID-19 vaccination   strongly outweigh any potential complications and recommends vaccination of all eligible adults.
The COVID-19 vaccine is given as an injection into the upper arm (intramuscular). Individuals taking direct oral anticoagulation (apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban and rivaroxaban), warfarin in therapeutic INR range, full dose heparin or fondaparinux injections can all receive the COVID-19 vaccination. Vaccinating prior to the next dose of anticoagulant may be considered rather than immediately after taking the blood thinner.
There is a risk of bruising at the injection site, but serious effects related to anticoagulation are not anticipated
Prolonged pressure (for at least 5 minutes) should be applied to the injection site to reduce bruising
Patients on warfarin with supra-therapeutic INR should wait until their INR is <4.0
We encourage patients to proceed with vaccination, which should not be avoided on the basis of anticoagulation
If there are any questions or concerns, individuals are urged to contact their health care provider.
The ISTH COVID-19 Response Task Force, represented by an international committee of medical leaders, made these recommendations following their meeting on March 11, 2021.
EDIT: A previous version of this release listed Austria as a country that had suspended the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine. Authorities only suspended the use of one batch.


Older adults more apt to get COVID-19 reinfection, study finds ,, 03-18-2021

While uncommon, COVID-19 reinfections happen, especially in people 65 years and older—underscoring the importance of continued physical distancing and prioritization for vaccines even in previously infected people, a large observational study yesterday in The Lancet suggests.
Researchers at the Statens Serum Institut in Copenhagen, Denmark, analyzed data on 10.6 million SARS-CoV-2 tests from 4 million Danes (69% of the population) from that country's second COVID-19 surge, from Sep 1 to Dec 31, 2020. They then compared them with infection rates from residents with positive or negative tests during the first surge, March to May, 2020.
Before June 2020, 533,381 residents were tested, of whom 2.20% were positive for COVID-19. Of the 525,339 people eligible for follow-up during the second surge, 2.11% were infected during the first surge, and 0.65% tested positive again. In comparison, 3.27% of the 514,271 who had tested negative during the first surge were infected (adjusted relative risk [aRR], 0.195). Protection against reinfection was 80.5%.
An alternative cohort analysis of COVID-19 infection rates throughout the year in those with a previous infection versus without one 3 months previously or more generated similar estimates (aRR, 0.212), for a protection of 78.8%. Among residents 65 years and older, however, observed protection against reinfection was only 47.1%.
Older people, the researchers said, may be more likely to be reinfected due to age-related waning of immunity, disrupted coordination of coronavirus-specific T-cell responses, and scarcity of naïve T cells, which have been linked to aging and poor COVID-19 outcomes.
'Natural protection cannot be relied on'
There was no difference in estimated protection against reinfection by sex (78.4% in men vs 79.1% in women) or evidence of fading protection over time (79.3% at 3 to 6 months follow-up vs 77.7% at 7 months follow-up or more). The study involved only the original coronavirus strain; variants were not evaluated.
In a sensitivity analysis of a sample restricted to 15,604 physicians, nurses, social workers, and healthcare assistants, who were tested a median of 10 times in 2020, 658 (4.2%) of whom tested positive during the first surge. Of those 658, 1.2% were reinfected during the second surge, compared with 6.2% of those who tested negative during the first surge (aRR, 0.189; estimated protection against repeat infection, 81.1%).
"Because the older age group is more prone to a serious clinical course of illness, this finding highlights the need to implement protective measures for the older population in the form of effective vaccines and enhanced physical distancing and infection control, even in those known to be previously infected," they wrote.
Study coauthor Steen Ethelberg, PhD, said in a Lancet press release that their findings could inform policies about vaccination strategies and the relaxing of public health restrictions. "Since older people are also more likely to experience severe disease symptoms, and sadly die, our findings make clear how important it is to implement policies to protect the elderly during the pandemic," he said.
The authors said that a better understanding of the degree and length of protection, as well as the mechanisms of immunity, against repeat coronavirus infection is critical to formulating optimal intervention strategies. "Our data indicate that vaccination of previously infected individuals should be done because natural protection cannot be relied on," they wrote.
The release calls it the first large-scale study of its kind.
Vaccination is 'enduring solution'
In a commentary in the same journal, Rosemary Boyton, MBBS, and Daniel Altmann, PhD, of Imperial College London, said that the quality and durability of protection produced by natural COVID-19 infection are weaker than the higher concentrations of neutralizing antibodies generated by currently available vaccines—a finding complicated by coronavirus variants able to escape both natural and vaccine-induced immune response.
"Interestingly, vaccine responses even after single dose are substantially enhanced in individuals with a history of infection with SARS-CoV-2," they said. "These data are all confirmation, if it were needed, that for SARS-CoV-2 the hope of protective immunity through natural infections might not be within our reach, and a global vaccination programme with high efficacy vaccines is the enduring solution."
