Key education goals elusive in more than 70 countries, UN agency reports ,, 11-13-2002

While 83 countries are on track to achieve universal education by 2015, a key goal set at a forum in Dakar, Senegal, in 2000, nearly an equal number will not make the target, with some even going backwards, the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) said today in a new report.
According to the report, 28 countries, accounting for over 26 per cent of the world's population, may not achieve any of the three measurable goals set in Dakar - universal primary education (UPE), gender equality and the halving of illiteracy rates. Meanwhile, 43 countries covering 35.6 per cent of the world's population risk falling short of at least one of the three targets. Two-thirds of the countries that are not expected to achieve any of the goals are in sub-Saharan Africa, but they also include India and Pakistan.
In addition to those three goals, the World Education Forum in Dakar also agreed to expanded early childhood care and education, increased learning opportunities for youth and adults and improvement of all aspects of education quality.
In declaring that UPE is unlikely to be reached in 57 countries at current rates of progress, the report says 41 of these countries, including some Central and East European nations, have even been moving backwards. While the goal of gender parity is supposed to be met by 2005, 31 nations remain at risk of not meeting this goal even by 2015. However, 86 countries have already achieved gender parity and another 35 are close to doing so.
The report says unless a much greater effort is made, 78 countries - including four of the world's most populous countries, Bangladesh, China, India and Pakistan, which alone account for 61 per cent of the world's illiterate adults - will not be able to halve their rate of illiteracy by 2015. The report also finds that the cost of providing education for all has been underestimated, partly because the high cost of conflict and HIV/AIDS on education has not been taken into account.
According to the report, while HIV/AIDS alone will add $975 million to the annual bill for achieving UPE, the cost of education has greatly increased in 73 countries dealing with internal crises or engaged in post-conflict reconstruction.
To meet the expense, the report says major education and economic reforms and increased external aid will be required in many countries, and adds that an extra $5.6 billion will be needed each year to achieve the UPE and gender goals alone. Total bilateral aid to education, which accounts for 70 per cent of all such financial support, fell by 16 per cent over the past decade due to conflict, the inability of national institutions to absorb funds rapidly and the reluctance of some governments to reform education systems and policies.


E-Learning in European Higher Education Institutions ,, 11-17-2014

The present study on e-learning intends to contribute to closing a data gap and to stimulate the discussion on the further development of national and European policies on the issue and to supportits systematic institutional take-up. It draws upon a survey conducted by the European University Association between October and December 2013.
249 answers from higher education institutions, in their majority universities, from 38 European systems (EU and wider Europe), were received. While the sample is self-selected, it represents almost one third of EUA’s institutional membership. The survey asked about the type of e-learning institutions use, their experiences in this area and their expectations for the future. It considered blended and online learning in various formats.
Given the strong interest in Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs), a large section of the report is dedicated to this issue. The survey also posed questions regarding support structures and services, intra-institutional coordination, quality assurance and recognition.


More Than $30M In Grants Awarded To Faculty ,, 09-22-2017

2017 has been a banner year for the college in terms of grant money awarded. Faculty in the college have more than doubled the amount of grant money received in the past three years, with new grants totaling more than $30 million.
Several grants received are for more than $1 million, including two from the U.S. Department of Education awarded to Dr. Rafael Lara-Alecio, Regents Professor in educational psychology. The grants, totaling $13.5 million, are focused on empowering teachers of English language learners (ELLs) and science education using technology for ELLs.
“Twenty-six other college faculty received awards this last year from a wide range of federal, state and local agencies to make an impact on education in our public schools, workplace issues, military children, teen pregnancy and human health,” added Dr. Bloomfield.
Those federal grants were awarded by NASA, the National Science Foundation, the U.S. Department of Justice and U.S. Department of Defense, among others. Faculty also received numerous grants from state agencies to further their research.


ANALYZING HOMEWORK'S IMPACT ,, 09-05-2017

It has been a debate for decades. Children are unhappy about doing homework and teachers insist that homework is key to helping students learn.
In recent years, parents have joined in the debate, complaining their children are stressed out because of an increased workload. That has prompted school districts across the country to re-examine their homework policies.
When we learned of Katy ISD’s plans to implement several no-homework nights this school year, we took the homework debate to Dr. Jeffrey Liew, professor of educational psychology.
Dr. Liew points to research that says not all homework is created equally – it depends on a variety of factors such as the type of assignments, the school subject, and the grade level.
Several studies show elementary students who do homework fare no better in school than students who do not. There is a slight uptick in higher grade levels, but the impact is minimal. However, Dr. Liew says homework can be beneficial to learning and achievement – because some subjects and school projects require more practice or time to complete than others.
“Ultimately, it is important to think about why homework is being assigned and how effectively homework assignments will serve to achieve learning objectives or goals,” he said. “Homework can benefit children’s learning, but not when homework assignments are used simply as a way to keep children busy or preoccupied after school.”
Most of Dr. Liew’s own research relates to child development. When we asked him about homework’s impact on free play and creative thinking, he said he is not surprised when he sees students struggle with certain life skills after they graduate from high school and go off to college or enter the workforce.
“When homework assignments dictate children’s after-school schedules, that leaves them little to no time for social or recreational activities. It also leaves them little to no time for learning critical life skills such as developing self-interests, self-initiative or autonomy, and peer relationships. These social emotional learning or life skills are critical for their development as a whole-person – skills for success that they will need for a lifetime.”
When children come home without homework, or on the designated no-homework nights, Dr. Liew has suggestions for parents.
“Rather than always controlling what their children should do when there is free time, parents who give their children some freedom to suggest and choose what they could do together are helping promote their children’s planning and decision-making skills.”
The goal for many parents on these no-homework nights is to also build and strengthen the relationships and bonds with their children. While some teachers argue parents can also accomplish that with homework, as it turns out, some parents don’t feel they have the background needed to help. This causes stresses for both children and parents.
“Having some homework assignments, especially when children progress into the higher grades can really help them master concepts and skills. But too much homework may be counterproductive for both students and parents” explained Dr. Liew. “And schools need to consider the diversity in home situations, as not all students come from homes with parents in a position to help their children with homework.”
For Dr. Liew, he sees the homework debate as an opportunity to focus attention on the need for ways to improve and enhance the schooling experience to ensure quality and equity in education for all children.


Understanding compulsive gambling through education ,, 01-29-2019

Kathleen Conroy, clinical assistant professor from the Department of Counseling, School and Educational Psychology, along with others from five professional organizations, have created a training program on the latest gambling addiction research and resources. For nearly 20 years, Conroy has been working in the gambling recovery field and educating others on gambling.
Conroy has also joined gambling experts from across New York State to conduct the training. Health professionals participate in innovative two-day workshops to learn how to treat compulsive gamblers and those affected by their addiction. The workshops are offered through the New York Problem Gambling Training Partnership, which also provides continuing education.
“We want to give clinicians a way to learn about the basics of gambling problems,” said Conroy. Through the workshops, licensed health professionals such as social workers, mental health counselors, marriage and family therapists, psychoanalysts and other professional counselors receive free and certified training on the basic assessment and treatment of gambling disorders.
Conroy notes that problem gambling recovery requires easy access to professionally trained health professionals and that people who realize they have a problem, don’t know where to go for help. Conroy adds that one of her goals for the workshops is to build a referral list of licensed or certified professionals across the state who are qualified to treat problem gambling.
“I am very passionate about trying to get the help needed to be available to everyone,” said Conroy. “The biggest goal for the training workshops is to provide awareness and education. Gambling is a silent addiction that is often misunderstood.”


Launch of the Global Guide of Ethics, Principles, Policies and Practices in Balanced and Inclusive Education ,, 11-22-2018

In December 2017, ERF organised the First ForumBIE 2030 at the United Nations in Geneva (UNIOG), at which 85 policy makers and civil society representatives from around the globe, including UNESCO’s International Bureau of Education’s (IBE-UNESCO) representatives, endorsed the need for the development of a Global Guide of Ethics, Principles, Policies and Practices in Balanced and Inclusive Education.
In furtherance of this mandate, ERF launched and distributed the Global Guide within the context of an International Call for Balanced and Inclusive Education (ICBIE). A non-binding expression of a collective aspiration for the pursuit of BIE, the International Call provides the framework for the building of multilateral partnerships and the international implementation of pilots based upon the Global Guide.
Today, The Education Relief Foundation is truly honoured, humbled and very proud to announce that the Global Guide of Ethics, Principles, Policies and Practices in Balanced and Inclusive Education has been launched formally and distributed at the II ForumBIE 2030.


Three Missouri Schools Recognized by Green Ribbon Schools Program ,, 05/04/2017

The U.S. Department of Education announced on Thursday that three Missouri schools were chosen as part of the 2017 Green Ribbon Schools program. McKelvey Elementary School (Maryland Heights), Parkway North High School (St. Louis) and Maplewood Richmond Heights Middle School (Maplewood) are being honored for their innovative efforts to reduce environmental impact and utility costs, improve health and wellness, and ensure effective sustainability education.
“The students and staff in these schools have made great strides to better themselves and their local community,” said Commissioner of Education Margie Vandeven. “Their dedication to creating a healthy and active learning environment is worthy of this national recognition.”
A total of 45 schools, nine districts, and nine postsecondary institutions from across the country were recognized as part of this year’s national program. The recognition award is part of a U.S. Department of Education effort to identify and communicate practices that result in improved student engagement, academic achievement, graduation rates, and workforce preparedness, and it reinforces federal efforts to increase energy independence and economic security.


Education's Human Development and Family Life Education Department Announces New Fast-Track ,, 10-02-2017

Samford’s Orlean Beeson School of Education has just announced a new partnership with Samford's School of Public Health. The new partnership will offer Human Development and Family Life Education students the opportunity to participate in a fast-track Master of Public Health program.
Education’s department of Human Development and Family Life Education houses the Human Development and Family Science major. The major focuses on human development within the family context as well as the family’s interactions with broader social institutions.
“Our department features one major with six tracks,” said Kristie Chandler, Human Development and Family Life Education chair. “This offers our majors a customizable pathway to focus in the content that will prepare them for a more specialized career or graduate school.”
Students can choose from three concentrations: child development education, child life or gerontology. They can also pick from three accelerated programs: social work, law and now public health.
“Because of our families and health course, which emphasizes the preventive and remedial approaches to promote optimal physical and emotional well-being within the family, students wanted opportunities to concentrate on the health issues families face.,” said Chandler. “This newest fast-track with Human Development and Family Science and Public Health provides a career option for students who want to impact the health of families and the communities in which they live.”
Students who participate in the accelerated program will dedicate three years to the completion of their bachelor’s degree. During the second semester of their fourth year of study, students begin enrolling in graduate level Public Health courses. One additional year is necessary for the completion of the graduate level course work. Following their fifth year of study, students will receive their Master of Public Health (M.P.H.).
Admission into the fast-track program requires careful advising and scheduling, a minimum undergraduate GPA of 3.0 and approval of both the chair of the Department of Human Development and Family Life Education and the chair of the Department of Public Health. Formal application is submitted during the student’s final semester of undergraduate course work, and full admission is granted upon the completion of their bachelor’s degree.


PRIMARY SCHOOLS GATHER AT NATIONAL WELLBEING EVENT ,, 10-23-2017

Hosted by Discovery Education and Alimentarium Foundation, Food For Thought saw educators and specialists meet for a day of dynamic workshops, experiments and seminars exploring healthy eating and body image in primary school age pupils. Over 50 teachers attended the conference at London’s Coin Street Conference Centre on Tuesday 17 th October. With sessions led by nutrition experts and body image specialists, the event offered ideas, support and resources to boost pupil wellbeing.
Drawing upon the latest research into child mental health, body image specialists Nicky Hutchinson and Chris Calland showed teachers how they can help pupils feel happy in their own skin, with positive strategies to build self-esteem and confidence. Speaker Jenny Tschiesche, also known as The Lunchbox Doctor, shared tips and tricks for teaching children about healthy eating, and highlighted the importance of building interest in nutrition at an early age. Best-selling author of the ‘What on Earth’ history books,  Chris Lloyd, explored how nutrition can be taught across the primary curriculum, with an energetic and interactive tour of food through the ages.
Sandra Bartley, a teacher at Marjorie McClure School in Chislehurst said: “I found the day really interesting and it really made me think about how we teach children about healthy eating and body image. The practical sessions which included science experiments and a healthy lunchbox session were very useful.”
Mihaela Chowdhury, a teacher at William Morris School in Walthamstow, East London said: “The day was absolutely amazing. The presentations and activities were really impressive and I know that my students will enjoy seeing all of this in the classroom.”
Myriam Al-Abbas from Al Sadiq and Al Zahra Schools in Brent, North London said: “Food for Thought exceeded my expectations and inspired me to love teaching even more. I wanted to rush back to school and start planning my next lesson!”
Laura Turner Laing, Director of Educational Partnerships at Discovery Education said: “We were delighted to welcome so many primary teachers to Food for Thought. It’s never been more important for schools to focus upon pupil wellbeing and this event was a great opportunity for teachers to share knowledge and classroom inspiration, helping them to approach these issues with confidence.”
The Food for Thought event launched a 3-year partnership between Discovery Education and Switzerland’s Alimentarium Foundation. The collaboration includes the creation of exciting new Key Stage 2 digital classroom resources – Eating, Moving and Growing – available to schools now through Discovery Education Espresso’s award-winning digital learning service.


Indian universities to offer online degrees ,, 02-09-2018

Indian universities will officially be allowed to develop and deliver their own online degrees for the first time after officials announced a reversal of the government’s year-long ban on the practice.
Indian universities will be allowed to enter the world of online delivery, after a government reversed its ban on the practice. Photo: PexelsIndian universities will be allowed to enter the world of online delivery, after a government reversed its ban on the practice. Photo: Pexels
Share this:
About Anton Crace
Anton is an award-winning international education journalist and author from Australia. He has worked within the industry since 2011 and writes extensively on events throughout the Asia Pacific. In his spare time, he’s watching rugby, cricket or basketball.
The ban began when several providers began offering online degrees despite regulators not recognising them
The decision will see higher education providers rated A+ under the National Assessment and Accreditation Council, roughly 15% of Indian universities, eligible to deliver online degrees, allowing them to tap into a new market of remote students and executives who can’t attend regular class times.
“Online teaching has a bright future in India as Indian universities have not enough resources to cater growing demand”
“We are creating an enabling environment where not just students but working executives can study and earn a degree without travelling the distance,” human resource development minister Prakash Javadekar said during the announcement.
Importantly, the announcement specifies that only non-technical degrees could be taken entirely online, meaning it is likely students considering an engineering or science degree will still be required to study on campus, while business and accounting students can choose to go online. Clarity on this point will come soon, according to officials.
“In a month or so, the rules will be finalised. [Higher education regulator] University Grants Commission is working on it,” said higher education secretary Kewal Kumar Sharma.
AEERI general secretary Rupesh Patel said the decision was a good move on the part of the government as India seeks to cater to more students seeking a tertiary education, but didn’t think there would be a significant impact on students going abroad.
“[There’s a] possibly negligible effect as the students going abroad prefer classroom learning,” he said.
“I personally believe the students that opt for full online degrees are different. However online teaching has a bright future in India as Indian universities have not enough resources to cater growing demand through just classroom learning.”
The decision to allow providers to deliver courses online sees a reversal of a December 2016 outright ban, implemented in response to a growing number of institutions providing online programs that were not recognised by UGC.
The higher education regulator consistently refused to recognise online degrees, yet, some institutions, such as the Karnataka State Open University, chose to continue to do so to keep up with international market trends.
India currently represents the second largest cohort of international students globally.
