Delay sought in ex-officers' trial over George Floyd's death ,, 01-01-2021

MINNEAPOLIS -- Prosecutors in the case against the four Minneapolis officers charged in the death of George Floyd requested that the trial delayed by three months.
The Star Tribune reports prosecutors cited the COVID-19 pandemic and the amount of time needed before enough people are vaccinated and health risks are sufficiently diminished.
The trial has been scheduled for March 8 for the four now-fired police officers charged in the death of Floyd on May 25 while he was forcibly detained on a south Minneapolis street corner.
In its motion, the prosecution argued that putting off the trial until June 7 “appropriately balances the need to protect public health with the need to ensure that this case is resolved expeditiously.”
Derek Chauvin, Tou Thao, J. Alexander Kueng and Thomas Lane are scheduled to be tried together. Chauvin is charged with second-degree murder and manslaughter, and the others are charged with aiding and abetting murder and manslaughter.
Chauvin’s attorney, Eric Nelson, said he doesn't intend to object to the prosecution seeking a delay in the trial.
Kueng’s attorney, Thomas Plunkett, said the prosecution’s motion pointing to COVID-19 is puzzling.
“The timing of their motion seems curious to me,” Plunkett said. “The pandemic has been around for a while.”
Thao’s lawyer, Robert Paule, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.


Two police body cameras capture the struggle leading to George Floyd's death ,, 08-11-2020

Police body camera footage showing Minneapolis police pointing a gun at George Floyd and struggling with him during his fatal arrest was released by the court on Monday.
CNN was permitted last month to view, but not air, the May 25 footage. Eleven weeks after Floyd's killing, protesters continue to take their anger to the streets of American cities.
The footage, roughly an hour in length, comes from the body cameras of former officers Thomas Lane and J. Alexander Kueng, who were the first to respond to a store where Floyd was accused of passing a fake $20 bill.
About 36 seconds after speaking to a store employee, the officers are outside the vehicle Floyd is driving. Lane trains his handgun on Floyd telling him, "Put your f**king hands up right now!" Floyd pleads with officers, sobbing, at one point putting his head on the steering wheel.
Officer watching Floyd's death: I felt the same agony you felt 03:50
Around three minutes into the video, the officers forcibly pull Floyd from the car and handcuff him. Another struggle ensues when Lane and Kueng attempt to put Floyd in a police SUV.
Kueng tries to push Floyd in through a back door of the SUV, while Lane pulls him from the opposite door. Floyd is yelling throughout and says, "I can't breathe" for the first time during the encounter.
Floyd falls out of the vehicle on Lane's side as two more policemen, Tou Thao and Derek Chauvin, arrive and assist in restraining Floyd. The 46-year-old hits the ground alongside the vehicle, the position he was in when 17-year-old Darnella Frazier began filming his final moments.
Roughly 11 minutes and 23 seconds into Lane's body camera video, Chauvin places his knee on Floyd's neck. He's already been cuffed for about eight minutes.
An officer told George Floyd it took &#39;a lot of oxygen to talk,&#39; body camera transcripts show
An officer told George Floyd it took 'a lot of oxygen to talk,' body camera transcripts show
Around 16 minutes into the footage, Floyd utters his final words: "Man, I can't breathe." Paramedics arrive about nine minutes after Chauvin puts his knee on Floyd's neck. A minute later, he is limp and paramedics load him onto a gurney.
The Minneapolis Police Department previously said it was not releasing the footage because it was part of an investigation into the officers' response.
Lane's attorney filed the footage in court last month as evidence supporting a motion to dismiss the charges against his client. Only transcripts from the tape were made public. Hennepin County District Judge Peter Cahill then allowed the media to view it.
Media outlets, including CNN, filed a motion calling for the release of the videos, but Cahill initially declined the request.
Floyd died after Chauvin knelt on Floyd's neck for nearly eight minutes. Lane and Kueng helped restrain Floyd as Thao stood between the officers and angry onlookers.
Chauvin is charged with second-degree murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter. Lane, Kueng and Thao are charged with aiding and abetting second-degree murder and aiding and abetting second-degree manslaughter. All four officers were fired.
Chauvin's attorney declined to comment when CNN viewed the footage in July. None of the officers has entered a plea, but Thao's and Lane's attorneys have requested their clients' cases be dismissed, and Kueng intends to plead not guilty, his attorney said.
Lane's attorney, Earl Gray, says Lane asked twice if Floyd should be moved to his side, but Chauvin, a veteran, told Lane that Floyd was fine and to keep him there till an ambulance arrived, according to a court motion.
Lane didn't see any "visible intentional infliction of harm," felt restraining Floyd was justified and wasn't aware Chauvin was committing a crime, the motion says.


Police officer charged with George Floyd murder released on bail ,, 10-08-2020

Derek Chauvin, who was filmed pressing his knee to handcuffed Floyd’s neck until he went limp during an arrest in May, is charged with second and third degree murder and manslaughter.
The Hennepin County Sheriff’s Office posted a notice of his release after more than four months in jail, after Chauvin was able to post the hefty bond, which came with conditions that he remain in Minneapolis until the trial.
Neither Chauvin nor his lawyer had any comment yesterday.
But Ben Crump, attorney for Floyd’s family, blasted his release.
“Derek Chauvin posted a $1M bail today – buying his freedom after robbing George Floyd of his life over $20,” he said in a tweeted statement.
“His release on bond is a painful reminder to George’s family that we are still far from achieving justice.”
The 44-year-old former Minneapolis police officer, who has since been sacked, is to face trial in March 2021 along with three other now ex-police officers over Floyd’s death, which triggered the largest US anti-racism movement since the 1960s.
The other three, Thomas Lane, Alexander Kueng and Tou Thao, who either stood by or participated in holding Floyd down when he was killed, are charged with aiding and abetting second-degree murder and manslaughter.
All three were released earlier on bail.
Floyd’s death on May 25 became a symbol of what many say is systemic racism and abuse of African Americans by police, and sparked protests across the country that continue under the banner of “Black Lives Matter.”
Prosecutors called the death, which came after Floyd was detained for allegedly using a counterfeit $20 bill, “vicious, brutal, and dehumanizing.”
All four defendants say the decision to restrain Floyd was reasonably justified, and have also cited coroner evidence that drugs found in his system may have been the primary cause of death.
The officers were all fired one day after Floyd’s death, reflecting the growing seriousness with which US cities are beginning to take police abuse allegations.
The killing sparked weeks of protests around the country, with the shootings and deaths of other African Americans - including Breonna Taylor in Louisville, Kentucky - contributing evidence to the claim that Blacks are disproportionately victims of police shootings when compared to other races.
Online a number of groups were calling for new protests over the coming days over Chauvin’s release, but it was not clear whether large numbers were expected.


Prosecutors want to charge four officers with third-degree murder in George Floyd's death ,, 02-05-2021

Prosecutors are seeking to add third-degree murder charges against four former Minneapolis police officers in the death of George Floyd.
Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison filed the motion on Thursday.
Former officer Derek Chauvin was initially charged with second-degree unintentional murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter for his role in Floyd's May death.
But Chauvin's attorney succeeded in getting the third-degree murder charge dismissed for lack of probable cause because it could only be applied "in situations in which the defendant's actions ... were not specifically directed at that particular person whose death occurred," the motion states.
Ellison, however, argued that the state's Court of Appeals recently upheld a third-degree murder charge against former officer Mohamed Noor in a case involving the shooting death of Justine Ruszczyk Damond.
The appeals court ruled in Noor's case that "third-degree murder may occur even if the death-causing act endangered only one person," according to the motion.
"Because the decision in Noor is precedential and now provides this court with clear guidance regarding the elements of third-degree murder, the State respectfully requests that the court reinstate the third-degree murder charge," the motion reads.
Ellison is asking that third-degree murder either be reinstated for Chauvin or that his complaint be amended to include the charge.
Thomas Lane,J. Alexander Kueng
Former Minneapolis Police officers Thomas Lane, right, and J. Alexander Kueng, second from right, are escorted out of the Hennepin County Family Justice Center on Sept. 11, 2020, in Minneapolis, after a hearing for the four Minneapolis police officers who are charged in the death of George Floyd.Jim Mone / AP file
The attorney general also wants the charge included on the amended complaints against the other three officers: Tou Thao, Thomas Lane and J. Alexander Kueng. They are currently charged with aiding and abetting murder as well as aiding and abetting manslaughter.
Attorneys for all four officers did not immediately return a request for comment on Friday.


UN condemns US police killing of George Floyd ,, 05-29-2020

UN Human Rights chief Michelle Bachelet on Thursday condemned the death of a man at the hands of police, urging US authorities to take "serious action" to stop the killings of unarmed African Americans.
On Monday, 46-year-old restaurant worker George Floyd was handcuffed and placed on the ground by police officers outside of a store, when one of them pressed his knee on Floyd's neck for more than five uninterrupted minutes.
The moment was caught on video by a bystander, as a crowd gathered on the scene. In the video, Floyd is seen gasping for air and saying "I can't breathe," until he loses consciousness. He was then taken to a hospital and later declared dead.
All four police officers involved in the incident have been fired; an investigation is pending.
"This is the latest in a long line of killings of unarmed African Americans by US police officers and members of the public," Bachelet said, listing of several other high-profile cases of African American deaths at the hands of police and vigilantes.
"The US authorities must take serious action to stop such killings, and to ensure justice is done when they do occur. Procedures must change, prevention systems must be put in place, and above all police officers who resort to excessive use of force should be charged and convicted for the crimes committed," she said. "The role that entrenched and pervasive racial discrimination plays in such deaths must also be fully examined, properly recognized and dealt with."
FBI to investigate
Floyd's death has led to a growing national outcry on social media and on the streets, with two consecutive days of protests in Minneapolis including some looting and fires, with police using tear gas to disperse the crowd.
Political figures from both parties have also expressed their dismay over the man's death. President Donald Trump said on Wednesday that he had asked the FBI to "expedite" an investigation that had already begun.
Read more:  Erica Garner: 'These cops are still killing us'
US Attorney for Minnesota Erica MacDonald said in a joint statement with FBI officer-in-charge Rainer Drolshagen that the investigation into the case was now a "top priority."
"The federal investigation will determine whether the actions by the involved former Minneapolis Police Department officers violated federal law," the statement said. Local police have also apologized to Floyd's loved ones.
"I am absolutely sorry for the pain, devastation and the trauma that Mr. Floyd's death has left on his family, his loved ones and our community," Minneapolis Police Chief Medaria Arradondo said on Thursday.


Former officer charged in George Floyd's death allowed to leave Minnesota ,, 10-10-2020

The former Minneapolis police officer charged in the death of George Floyd will be allowed to live in a neighboring state due to safety concerns stemming from his involvement in Floyd's death that was caught on video and became part of a rally cry for police brutality around the country.
Derek Chauvin posted $1 million bail and was released from custody on Wednesday. He was allowed to leave the state while he awaits trial, according to new bail conditions outlined in court records. As part of the order, he must keep his cell phone on him at all times.
The Minnesota Department of Corrections has evidence "supporting safety concerns that have arisen" in his conditional release supervision, according to the amended court order filed Thursday and posted on the Hennepin County Court website Friday.
The order did not go into any detail about safety concerns.
Chauvin faces charges of second-degree murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter in Floyd's May 25 death.
Videos of the incident show Chauvin kneeling on Floyd's neck for almost eight minutes as Floyd told Chauvin and three other officers that he couldn't breathe.
Protesters take to streets following release on bond of former officer charged in George Floyd&#39;s killing
Protesters take to streets following release on bond of former officer charged in George Floyd's killing
Floyd's death sparked massive, ongoing protests around the country, and protests against Chauvin's release have taken place in the city over the past two nights.
Chauvin, who was fired from the police department, has no permanent address and "shall establish residency somewhere in the State of Minnesota or a contiguous state as soon as possible and immediately report that address to the conditional release officer assigned" by the state's department of corrections, according to the amended order.
The address will remain confidential, the order said.
Chauvin must have a cell phone with him at all times and answer all calls from the department of corrections, the order states.
He must also surrender his passport and sign four copies of a waiver of extradition.
Chauvin should not be subjected to "greater or less restrictions than would normally be imposed," the order said.
John Stiles, the deputy chief of staff for the Minnesota attorney general's office, said the office had no problem with the amended order.
"We consented to it. We have no objections to it," Stiles said. "We expect the defendant to abide by all the conditions of his release that the court has imposed and to attend all hearings in the trial."
Floyd's family attorney Ben Crump and co-counsel Antonio Romanucci issued a statement Friday that the judge's order "demonstrates how stark the contrast is between the two justice systems in America."
"The police were not concerned about George Floyd's safety even as he was handcuffed, face down on the ground with his breath and life being slowly extinguished," reads the statement. "Yet, the man charged with killing him will roam free across state lines. It's time to recognize and fix the inherent injustice in our systems."
CNN has contacted Chauvin's attorney for comment.
Chauvin has asked a judge to dismiss the charges against him, saying there is no probable cause to support them.
The three other officers were fired and are charged with aiding and abetting second-degree murder and aiding and abetting second-degree manslaughter.
They have also asked that those charges be dismissed.
Chauvin's next court date is set for March 8, according to a notice of appearance.


George Floyd death | Four Minneapolis police officers face charges ,, 06-04-2020

A fired Minneapolis police officer will face a more serious murder charge and three other sacked officers will be charged as aiding and abetting in the death of an unarmed black man that triggered eight days of nationwide protest, court documents said on Wednesday.
George Floyd, 46, died after Derek Chauvin, a white policeman, knelt on his neck for nearly nine minutes on May 25, reigniting the explosive issue of police brutality against African Americans five months before a presidential election.
Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison is charging Chauvin, 44, with second-degree murder in addition to the third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter charges leveled against him last week, according to court documents.
The new charge can carry a sentence of up to 40 years, 15 years longer than the maximum sentence for third-degree murder.
Also read: George Floyd killing | Protesters defy curfews, march across U.S.
The other three former officers who were involved in the incident - Thomas Lane, J. Alexander Kueng and Tou Thao - face charges of aiding and abetting murder and arrest warrants have been issued by Mr. Ellison, according to the documents.
Mr. Ellison, a black former U.S. congressman, has requested that bail be set at $1 million for each of the four former officers, the documents showed. Mr. Ellison was expected to hold a briefing later on Wednesday.
Also read: Medical examiner declares George Floyd death homicide - report
When reached by Reuters over the phone, Earl Gray, the attorney for Lane, said he had not received any information on the charges yet. Attorneys for the other officers who are being charged did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
‘Significant step forward’
“This is a significant step forward on the road to justice, and we are gratified that this important action was brought before George Floyd's body was laid to rest,” Benjamin Crump, attorney for the Floyd family, said in a statement.
He later told CNN that Chauvin should be facing a first-degree murder charge, and that Mr. Ellison had informed Floyd's family that the investigation is ongoing and other charges could be filed.
Protesters who have vented their anger over Floyd's death in sometimes violent demonstrations in major U.S. cities over the past week had demanded the case be widened to include all the officers who were present during the incident.
“This is another important step for justice,” said U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar, who is from Minnesota and a potential running mate for presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden in the Nov. 3 election.
Tens of thousands of people defied curfews and took to the streets of cities coast to coast for an eighth night in protest over Floyd's death and brutality against other black Americans.
Authorities took the unusual step of ordering the curfews, and bands of police in riot gear and other heavily armed officers patrolled, ringing landmarks and shouting at protesters while helicopters roared overhead.
While most protests have been peaceful, there was less looting and vandalism overnight, and clashes between police and protesters were more sporadic.
The protests have highlighted the issues of racial inequality and excessive police force in a country that will go to the polls on Nov. 3 to decide whether to give Republican President Donald Trump another term in the White House.
Mr. Trump has said justice must be done in Floyd's case but also touted a hard line on the violent protests, threatening to use the military to end the chaos. Mr. Biden has vowed to heal the racial divide in the nation if he is elected.


Will the death of George Floyd at the hands of white police officer Derek Chauvin mark a turning point in the US? ,, 06-09-2020

Derek Chauvin could never have imagined this day.
An officer in the Minneapolis Police, he responded to a call over a suspected fake $US20 bill used at a grocery store by George Floyd.
In the next few minutes, the policeman with a long history of complaints against him would ensure his place as the most reviled man in the US.
Floyd's killing has galvanised protests not just in his city, his state or his nation, but around the world.
Appearing via video link on second-degree murder charges, Chauvin is in many ways, the last cop of Minneapolis.
Whether the charges stick or not, his fall from grace is complete and permanent.
And by kneeling on the neck of George Floyd for nearly nine minutes the disgraced former officer has forced Minneapolis to radically change the way it will enforce the law in the future.
Minneapolis' terrible past
For years, activists have said the Minneapolis Police Department has a racist and brutal culture that resists change.
Back in 2016, it introduced a "duty to intervene" policy.
An African American man in a cap and a t-shirt with security written across it
But it was only on Friday, after Floyd's death, that officials sought to make it enforceable in court, and to require officers to immediately report to their superiors when they saw use of any neck restraint or chokehold.
Two of the four policemen involved in the killing were rookies, with just a few days on the job.
Questioning their senior officers wouldn't have been easy. But it might have saved a life, and their careers.
Other changes are being made, with Minnesota also launching a civil rights investigation of the department last week.
But Minneapolis City Council members have sought to go even further, pledging to dismantle the city's police department.
Exactly what it is replaced with is unclear. But certainly the people of Minneapolis want change and they're going to get it.
A more community-focused approach is likely but citizens will no doubt also want and need a force that can still respond to robberies, murders, and even traffic accidents.
In effect, it's a brave social experiment. But its supporters will argue something drastic has to change.
It's not entirely without precedence. In New Jersey, the city disbanded its police department in 2012 and replaced it with a new force that covered Camden County.
Should US police departments apologise to black Americans?
For years, US criminologists have discussed whether police departments should be issuing a formal apology for centuries of racist mistreatment of black civilians — similar to Australia's apology to the Stolen Generations.
For example, in 2011, Chief Jim Fealy —a white police chief in the city of High Point, North Carolina — issued a public apology to the black community for historical wrongs perpetrated by the police.
"I know we've let you down. We haven't protected you," he said at the time.
"What we've done hasn't worked. And we've done bad things. We did them with the best of intentions, we were trying to do the right thing, but we've done harm, and I'm sorry."
A National Guardsmen in full combat uniform bumps fists with a smiling young black female protester.
Protesters have told the ABC they want an end to police brutality, to institutionalised racism and a safer, kinder, more equal society.(AP: Alex Brandon)
In 2016, the president of the largest police-management organisation, Terrence M Cunningham, apologised to non-white Americans on behalf of 23,000 police officials.
"While we obviously cannot change the past, it is clear that we must change the future," the head of the International Association of Chiefs of Police said.
"For our part, the first step is for law enforcement … to acknowledge and apologise for the actions of the past and the role that our profession has played in society's historical mistreatment of communities of colour."
Criminologist David Kennedy, who advises the US Justice Department on police issues, told Vox this week that departments couldn't move forward without a "pretty explicit reconciliation process".
"I don't think we're going to be able to build new relationships successfully between black communities and the police until the police say, 'we recognise these facts — whether we were there or not, whether we were around during slavery, reconstruction, Jim Crow, attacks on the Civil Rights Movement, or whether it's more recent things that we have done that you have found disrespectful and untoward, like zero-tolerance policing and high levels of stop-and-frisk'," he said.
"'We have to recognise and acknowledge that very often we have not treated you well.
"'We're going to go out of our way to respect your experience and your views, and we're going to work together to figure out how to do those things differently'."
In Australia, the apology to the Stolen Generations was made by a prime minister.
But the US is led by a man for whom apologies or even using the word "sorry" does not come easily or naturally.
Protesters want real and lasting change
Donald Trump has marked his territory on this issue. He is Mr Law and Order.
He berated state governors for being soft on protesters and threatened to call in the military to quell dissent.
Tear gas and baton charges were used to clear the way for his now-infamous "bible" photo-op outside the White House.
Trump does like to surprise. But a heartfelt appeal to unify the nation and an apology for past wrongs would be out of character.
I watched as countless thousands marched, yet again, in Los Angeles. I asked some of them what changes would please them enough to go home.
They spoke of an end to police brutality, to institutionalised racism. They wanted a safer, kinder more equal society.
They wanted a new America. And they all told me they won't stop these protests until they see real and lasting change.
In effect, many want a social revolution. That doesn't happen overnight or necessarily at all.
A crowd of people holding up signs, some with hands in the air.
There are nine police forces in Australia. In the US, there are 18,000.
Every city, every county, large and small, has their own police department. Each has different training, cultures and leadership.
More than 1,300 people die at the hands, knees or guns of police in America every year. Floyd will add to that number.
What is different about his death is that a white police officer is being held accountable. Protests demanding an end to police brutality and racism have multiplied at home and abroad.
If his killing hadn't been witnessed and filmed by horrified citizens, none of this would have happened.
Floyd's name would likely have been in the Minneapolis papers and on television portrayed as a black man who died while resisting arrest.
Now everyone knows his name. Countless millions watched him die.
It's impossible to tell if this is the turning point demanded by so many or just another expression of anger punctuating the latest outrage before the next act of police brutality.


George Floyd: From aspiring rapper to symbol of police violence against black men ,, 06-03-2020

Before his name became a rallying cry for Americans fed up with the police killings of unarmed black men, he was an aspiring Houston rapper nicknamed “Big Floyd” whose lines were steeped in the lore of his beloved Third Ward neighborhood.
George Floyd was part of an influential hip-hop collective called the Screwed Up Click that emerged in the 1990s with a distinct slowed-down sound that some say moved at the pace of the steamy city on a hot summer night.
His deep-voiced drawl was featured on at least a dozen mixtapes created by the group’s leader, Robert Earl Davis Jr., aka DJ Screw. And always, the focus of Floyd’s freestyling was on the things that mattered most to him: hanging with friends, dreaming about making his mark, home.
But when Floyd died on May 25, beneath the knee of a Minneapolis police officer, he was five years and more than a thousand miles removed from the historic center of African American culture in Houston where he grew up in the Cuney Homes housing project.
And when Floyd returns home to Houston on Monday for a public memorial, it will be in a coffin.
“It’s going to be a big deal for our city to bring him home,” said Houston Police Chief Art Acevedo.
Where did Floyd grow up?
Houston may have been home, but Floyd was born 46 years ago in Fayetteville, North Carolina, and moved to Texas as a child. At 6-foot-6, Floyd towered over his classmates at Yates High School, where he was a star tight end and a basketball player.
Donnell Cooper, a former classmate, told The Associated Press that Floyd may have been fearless on the field, but he was reserved off it.
“Quiet personality but a beautiful spirit,” Cooper said.
One of his friends from the neighborhood was former NBA player Stephen Jackson, who nicknamed Floyd “Twin” after noticing a resemblance.
"The first question we asked: 'Who's your daddy, Who's your daddy?' And it went from there," he said. "We always hung together, every time I went to Houston, it was my first stop to pick him up."
Where did Floyd go to college?
Floyd attended South Florida Community College (now South Florida State College) for 1993 to 1995 and played on the school’s basketball team. But he returned home to Houston before graduating.
Where did Floyd work?
A childhood friend, Christopher Harris, convinced Floyd to move to Minneapolis around 2014 and start a new life. They had mutual friends there and Floyd quickly found a job working as a security guard at a downtown Salvation Army store.
Later, Floyd juggled two jobs, as a truck driver and a bouncer at the Conga Latin Bistro.
"He's more than an employee, he's a close friend,” bistro co-owner Jovanni Thunstrom said. “He's like a brother to me.”
Because of the pandemic and the economic shutdown, Floyd was out of work the day he died.
What was Floyd being arrested for?
The owner of Minneapolis Cup Foods, a grocery store that Floyd sometimes shopped at, called the police to report that Floyd had used a phony $20 bill.
Floyd "may not have even known that the bill was counterfeit,” store owner Mike Abumayyaleh told NBC's Gabe Gutierrez.
Floyd was standing outside the store when the police arrived.
Did Floyd resist arrest?
The most recently released video appears to show that four Minneapolis officers struggled with Floyd in the back of a patrol car before Officer Derek Chauvin pinned him to the ground by kneeling on his neck.
State charging documents allege that Chauvin had his knee on George Floyd’s neck for 2 minutes and 53 seconds after Floyd became nonresponsive, based on law enforcement review of body-worn camera video.
In total, the complaint says Chauvin had his knee on Floyd’s neck for 8 minutes and 46 seconds, and “police are trained that this type of restraint with a subject in a prone position is inherently dangerous.”
A witness captured video that went viral on social media, showing Floyd on the pavement pleading with Chauvin.
"Please, please, please, I can't breathe," the man repeatedly said. "My stomach hurts. My neck hurts. Please, please. I can't breathe."
But Chauvin did not budge.
Outrage over the incident has sparked nationwide protests.
How did Floyd die?
Authorities in Minnesota said Monday that George Floyd's death was a homicide that occurred while he was being restrained by law enforcement.
The Hennepin County medical examiner said an autopsy listed Floyd's cause of death on May 25 as "cardiopulmonary arrest complicating law enforcement subdual, restraint, and neck compression."
Pathologists hired by Floyd's family said Monday that they had concluded that he died after blood and air flow was cut off to his brain, causing him to die by mechanical asphyxia.
Did Floyd have a criminal record?
Citing court records, The Houston Chronicle reported that Floyd had several brushes with the law, starting with a 1997 drug charge in Houston. His last case was an aggravated robbery with a deadly weapon charge in 2007, which resulted in a conviction and a five-year prison sentence.
Did Floyd have children?
Floyd's survivors include a 6-year-old daughter, Gianna, who lives in Houston with her mother, Roxie Washington, The Houston Chronicle reported. He also had another daughter from an earlier relationship.
“He was a gentle giant,” Washington told the newspaper. “People mistake him because he was so big that they thought he was always a fighting person, but he was a loving person…. and he loved his daughter.”


Leaked police bodycam video shows new details of George Floyd's fatal arrest ,, 08-04-2020

In partial footage obtained by the Daily Mail from the body cameras worn by two of the now-former Minneapolis police officers involved in the arrest of George Floyd, a panicked Floyd can be seen struggling with officers while in the back of a squad car in the minutes before his death, saying, "I can't breathe."
Moments later, following the struggle, Officer Thomas Lane can be heard asking Officer Derek Chauvin whether Floyd should be rolled on his side.
Floyd died May 25 while in custody, and the incident -- which was also recorded on cell phone video -- set off protests that soon went nationwide. The demonstrations over his killing and the deaths of other African Americans at the hands of police prompted intense discussions on racism in America.
The Daily Mail, based in London, does not say how it obtained the footage of the police body cameras.
Footage from the police body-worn cameras of Thomas Lane and J. Alexander Kueng was filed with the court July 7 by Lane's attorney as evidence supporting his motion to dismiss the charges against the former officer, but only the written transcripts were made public by the court at the time.
Judge Peter Cahill, who is presiding over the cases, made the body camera footage from Lane and Kueng available for limited in-person viewing at the court July 15.
Cahill had declined to allow news organizations to publish the footage. A coalition of local and national media companies, including CNN, filed a motion in July calling for the immediate release of the two body-worn camera videos.
The four officers involved have been fired.
Chauvin has been charged with second-degree murder.
The three other officers involved in Floyd's death -- Kueng, Lane and Tou Thao -- were also arrested and charged with aiding and abetting second-degree murder and aiding and abetting second-degree manslaughter.
Ben Crump, an attorney for Floyd's family, said in a statement Monday that the leaked video shows Floyd did not pose a threat.
"The police officers approached him with guns drawn, simply because he was a Black man. As this video shows, he never posed any threat. The officers' contradictions continue to build. If not for the videos, the world might never have known about the wrongs committed against George Floyd."
While none of the officers has entered a formal plea, attorneys for Thao and Lane have asked for the cases against them to be dismissed, and Kueng's attorney has said his client intends to plead not guilty.
A spokesman for the judge said Monday that Cahill had yet to rule on the motion to publicly release the body camera footage.
Attorneys for Chauvin and Kueng declined to comment Monday. CNN also reached out to attorneys representing Thao and Lane for comment Monday but did not receive an immediate response.
Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison, who is prosecuting the case, told CNN that his team is not the source of the video the Daily Mail has.
"The prosecution team is not the source of the leak. We will continue to take the strictest precautions to ensure a fair trial," Ellison said.
