House Passes Legislation with Anti-Immigrant Provisions ,, 10-11-2004

The House passed H.R. 10, titled, "9/11 Recommendations Implementation Act" and attached several immigration-related amendments to the bill that were not actually included in the 9/11 report. Some of the more disturbing provisions include: (1) a broader interpretation of expedited removal without an opportunity for review, (2) changes in asylum eligibility, (3) additional federal restrictions for noncitizens seeking to obtain driver’s licenses, (4) new mandatory detention provisions for certain foreign nationals, (5) the abolition of temporary stays for aliens whose removal cases are pending, and (6) provisions to deport individuals to countries without functioning governments. There were several attempts by members of Congress to alter the bill. Representative Chris Smith (R-NJ), for example, attempted to remove two of the more significant measures of the bill without success. These immigration provisions without changes to the current legal immigration system will only serve to further complicate an already broken and ineffective system.
The Senate and the House will now meet in conference to reconcile their differences


Guest-Worker Plan to Reduce Illegal Immigration ,, 09-25-2005

The White House has indicated that it plans to augment its January 2004 Immigration Principles and present a more detailed immigration-reform plan to the Congress sometime this Fall. Greenberg Traurig attorney, Laura Reiff, the co-chair of the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition (www.ewic.org) has been meeting with White House and congressional leaders on behalf of the business community to work out a solution to the Immigration policy breakdown in the U.S. Sources indicate that the plan will elaborate on prior proposals to allow undocumented immigrants to apply for a three-year work permit to remain in the U.S. After the expiration of the three-year work status, it is unclear as to whether an extension would be available or whether these foreign nationals would be required to leave, and apply for readmission into, the U.S. This is a positive step forward to the prospects of a comprehensive immigration reform.


Philippines Was Top Source Country For New Immigrants To Canada In 2014 ,, 05-19-2015

More than 40,000 Filipinos became permanent residents of Canada in 2014, making the Philippines the top source country for Canadian immigration last year. The Philippines had previously been the top source country in 2012, with China having been the top source country in 2013.
Canada also issued nearly 47,000 visitor visas to Filipinos in 2014, a 56 percent increase since 2006.
The number of new permanent residents from the Philippines is up from 14,004 in 2004, a near three-fold increase in just one decade. Many of the Filipino newcomers originally came to Canada under the Live-In Caregiver Program, now simply the Caregiver Program after modifications made last November. The government of Canada’s immigration plan for 2015 states that it aims to convert between 26,000 and 30,000 caregivers to permanent resident status this year.
In just a few short decades, Canada’s Filipino community has grown to become one of the country’s largest immigrant demographics. The more than 700,000 people of Filipino descent in Canada make up one of the country’s larger diaspora communities, and this number is increasing constantly. Filipino workers in Canada are important to both the Canadian and Philippine economies. While workers in Canada help to fill important labour shortages, families and friends in the Philippines benefit from remittances sent from Canada.
About half of Canada’s Filipino population lives in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA), with Vancouver hosting the second-largest Filipino population in Canada and Winnipeg also home to a large number of Filipinos.
“Oftentimes, individuals will first come to Canada as temporary workers, leaving spouses and children behind. But many Filipinos have also worked hard to bring their immediate families to Canada. Once permanent residence is achieved, they are then able to reunite with their families in Canada,” says Attorney David Cohen.
“Canada’s generous family sponsorship rules allow permanent residents to sponsor not only children and spouses, but parents and grandparents as well. These include the popular Parent and Grandparent Sponsorship Program as well as the new Super Visa Program, which offers long-term visitor visas to qualified applicants. The introduction of these family reunification programs has contributed to the upsurge in new arrivals from the Philippines.
“Within the broader Filipino community in Canada, we have observed success after success of smaller communities that have flourished across the country. The story of Filipino immigration to Canada is a story shared between a proud people and a welcoming land.”


Immigration to Germany in 2014 at highest level in two decades ,, 09-03-2015

Net immigration into Germany last year hit its highest level since 1992, the Statistics Office said on Thursday (3 September), with expectations that figure will rise this year to 800,000.
Roughly 550,000 more people moved to Germany last year than left, and the majority were from Europe, mostly from Poland. Relatively liberal asylum laws and generous benefits making Germany the EU’s biggest recipients of people seeking asylum.
This year numbers are likely to be swelled by people from the Middle East and Africa, tens of thousands of whom are making perilous journeys by land and sea to escape war.
Economic migrants from southeastern Europe, included 13 percent more from Italy last year while arrivals from Spain and Greece fell 26 percent and 29 percent respectively.
There were also strong rises from eastern European countries such as Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia.
Some 363,000 asylum seekers claimed benefits in 2014, with about 38 percent from Europe and the same amount from Asia, and 19 percent alone from the former states of Yugoslavia, such as Serbia, Kosovo and Montenegro.
There was also a more than doubling of the number of claimants from Syria, who made up 11 percent of the total. The biggest increase was claimants from Eritrea – three times the number compared with the previous year.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel has described coping with the influx of asylum seekers as Europe’s biggest challenge. She has also warned about a rise in hostility towards foreigners in Germany given almost daily attacks on shelters.
A poll on Wednesday (2 September) showed support for Merkel and her party slipping due to the crisis.
EU leaders have agreed on the outlines of a two-year plan to deal with unprecedented numbers of migrants fleeing the Middle East and Africa.
But implementing the system to resettle or relocate 60,000 refugees is proving to be highly contentious at a time of rising anti-immigration parties in Europe. Many countries, including France and Germany, do not reject the idea of burden-sharing for refugees, but contend that the European Commission's proposed quota system needs to be reworked.
EU leaders argued through the night at a summit in June over the plan, wary of taking in migrants and reflecting deep national rivalries that the bloc's cooperation is supposed to transcend. They have set December as the latest deadline to agree final numbers.


Two million: Germany records largest influx of immigrants in 2015 ,, 21-03-2016

Germany's statistics office has recorded the highest number of immigrants in post war history. Net immigration increased by 49 percent in 2015 and for the first time most of the arrivals were not from Europe.
A queue at Berlin's registry office for migrants, known as Lageso
Berlin's Lageso offices are processing major backlogs in asylum applications
The Federal Statistics Office on Monday announced that it recorded the country's highest net immigration of foreign nationals to Germany in 2015, totaling over 1.1 million for the year.
"Net migration of foreign people amounted to 1.14 million. This is the highest net immigration of foreigners ever recorded in the history of the Federal Republic of Germany," said a statement from the statistics office.
The figure marks a 49-percent increase compared to 2014, which witnessed a net migration of 577,000 people.
The office registered in 2015 under two million immigrants arriving in Germany, while 860,000 departed again.
The figures are based on the numbers from January to August 2015 and estimates for the four remaining months of the year.
For the first time immigrants from non-European countries outnumbered those from Europe.
Controversial deal
The announcement comes as Germany and other European countries struggle to cope with an influx of irregular migrants and refugees, many fleeing war-torn countries in the Middle East, Asia and Africa.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel has dismissed efforts to cap the amount of refugees seeking protection in Germany, a move that placed her at odds with several allied lawmakers.
The EU on Friday finalized a controversial deal with Ankara that allows authorities to return all migrants entering the 28-nation bloc illegally via Turkey.
"The most important part of this deal is that it will end the business model of people smugglers and contribute to securing the EU's external border," Merkel said at a press conference following the agreement.
However, human rights watchdog Amnesty International slammed the agreement, saying it marked a "dark day for Europe and a dark day for humanity."


Immigration Emerging As Top Issue In 2016 ,, 12-28-2015

The Obama administration's move to deport Central American families who have not complied with removal orders has immigration advocates seething — and has placed 2016 Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton in an awkward position.
A spokeswoman for Clinton said the former secretary of state "has real concerns about these reports." As immigration advocate Frank Sharry, president of America's Voice, told The Washington Post: "She'll have to choose between protecting refugees from Central America — a demand of the Latino community — or standing with the law-and-order position of Obama and Republicans."
The proposed deportations, first reported in the Post last week, are to take place as the number of Central Americans crossing the border into the United States has spiked. Part of the administration's response to the arrival of some 100,000 Central Americans in 2014 was to build family detention centers, where migrant children who had arrived with a parent were held, in some cases for more than a year.
A judge ruled this past summer that the administration's approach violated standards for holding underage migrants. Earlier this month, the administration filed a motion with the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals to expedite its appeal of that ruling. As things stand now, the appeal will not be heard until 2017.
Meanwhile, two of President Obama's moves benefiting migrants who lack long-term legal residency could be imperiled. Republican presidential candidates — including Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, who historically has been supportive of immigration overhaul — have said they would end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, if they win the White House next year. DACA allows certain immigrants who entered the country illegally before age 16 a chance to apply for temporary legal status.
On Nov. 20, 2014, the president announced the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Legal Permanent Residents, or DAPA, which would give similar benefits to parents in the U.S. illegally. A district court judge in Texas issued a hold on the executive action; in May, the United States Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit rejected the administration's appeal of that ruling. It is unclear whether the Supreme Court will hear the administration's appeal in time for a ruling by the summer of 2016.


Japan eases immigration rules for workers ,, 12-08-2018

Japan's parliament has approved a controversial new law allowing hundreds of thousands of foreigners into the country to ease labour shortages.
From next April foreigners will be allowed to take up jobs in sectors such construction, farming and nursing.
Japan has traditionally been wary of immigration but the government says more foreigners are needed because of Japan's ageing population.
Opposition parties say the law risks exposing newcomers to exploitation.
Under the new system, more than 300,000 foreigners could be allowed to work in sectors facing a labour crunch.
The law creates two new visa categories. Workers in the first category will be allowed in for five years if they have a certain level of skill and some proficiency in Japanese.
The economic lessons Japan can teach the West
Trending in Japan: Restless retirees
Workers with a higher level of skills would qualify for the second visa category and would eventually be allowed to apply for residency.
The opposition has argued that an influx of foreign workers would depress wages and lead to exploitation of migrant labour.
The BBC's Rupert Wingfield-Hayes in Tokyo says the current programme of "technical training" for low-skilled foreign workers is open to abuse by unscrupulous employers.
Graphic showing how Brazil's population is ageing
Businesses in Japan have long argued for changes to immigration rules to recruit workers from other countries.
But Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has stressed the proposed law is not an overhaul of immigration policy and Japan will only accept foreigners "who have specific skills and can work immediately to address serious labour shortages, only in sectors that genuinely need them".
Japan's fertility rate dropped below 2.1 childbirths per woman - replacement level - in the 1970s and now stands at around 1.4. The country also has one of the world's longest life expectancies (85.5).


Sweden election 2018: Immigration among the most important issues to voters ,, 08-21-2018




Aquarius ship to end migrant rescues, say MSF and SOS Méditerranée ,, 12-06-2018

MSF and SOS Méditerranée announced Thursday they will be ending the operations of the Aquarius migrant rescue ship, which has become a lightning rod for the controversy surrounding Europe's policies on accepting migrants.
MSF (Médecins sans frontières or Doctors Without Borders) and SOS Méditerranée announced in a joint statement that they had "brought an end" to the ship's rescue operations.
The decision was made to wind up the ship's missions because the Aquarius itself had become a target, explained Françis Vallat, president of SOS Méditerranée, in an interview with FRANCE 24 shortly after the announcement.
But he vowed that the NGOs would soon “resume our activities”.
The ships have rescued thousands of migrants from the Mediterranean as immigration continues to be a hot-button political issue across the European Union.
MSF lamented "the attacks carried out in the last 18 months by some European states" and the "grotesque claims of trafficking in waste and criminal activity" targeting both NGOs.
“All our port operations, including waste management, have always followed standard procedures,” MSF said in a statement last month. “The relevant authorities have not contested these procedures or identified a public health risk since we started our activities at sea.”
The Aquarius was at the heart of a diplomatic row in June when it became stranded with more than 600 migrants on board following a refusal by Italy and Malta to take it in.
Under a deal reached in August, 141 migrants aboard the Aquarius were distributed among France, Germany, Luxembourg, Portugal and Spain.
The ship has been repeatedly turned away by Italy and forced to stop in Malta and Spain in recent months.
Italy's far-right Interior Minister Matteo Salvini has vowed to block the Aquarius permanently from his country's ports, accusing it of offering a "taxi service" for migrants from Libya to Europe. Italy has seen more than 700,000 migrants landing on its shores since 2013.
French President Emmanuel Macron has clashed with the Italian government over the policy, accusing it of "cynicism and irresponsibility".
But Macron faced criticism at home for not offering safe haven to the Aquarius after it first became stranded in June, although France eventually offered asylum to about 80 of the rescued migrants.
The International Organization for Migration said in October that 1,741 migrants had drowned trying to cross the Mediterranean so far this year. The group estimates that about 15,000 migrants have drowned since 2013.


Migrants hotspots: the Niger laboratory ,, 09-25-2018

Niger is a major transit country for migrants wanting to reach Europe. It is fighting irregular immigration from western african countries, but is also hosting refugees and internally displaced people by the thousands. Europe want to make it one of the so-called « hotspots » where migration flows towards Europe can be processed. euronews reporter Valérie Gauriat reported on the realities on the ground.
In the streets of Niamey, the capital of Niger, informal markets like this one are for many the only way to survive, in a country labeled as one of the poorest in the world.
Yet it is also hosting over 300000 refugees and internally displaced persons fleeing conflict in other countries and at its borders.
But when it comes to creating so-called hotspots on its territory, as suggested by France, to process migrants hoping to go to Europe, the government of Niger is skeptical.
"I'm mainly in favour of european countries finding ways together to promote a new type of relationship with african countries, based on the delivery of visas according to the needs expressed by companies in Europe", says Mohamed Bazoum, Niger's Interior Minister
Niger has agreed last year to host refugees evacuated from Libya, and potentially eligible for resettlement in Europe.
A programme managed by the UNHCR.
We met two somalian women at one of the organisation's centre in Niamey. They don't want to be recognised.
They endured daily torture in libyan detention centres, after fleeing persecution in their home country.
Evacuated to Niger 3 months ago, they are now waiting for a green light to go to France.
"The only reason I left my country was to get help" says one of them. "I had to escape from all the problems I had there. I needed to reach a safe place. A place where I could find some hope. People like me need hope.", she point out, bursting into tears.
Out of 2600 pledges from 10 countries, most of them european, less than 400 refugees have yet been resettled so far.
Many more are hoping to be taken on board the programme.
Among them, some 2000 asylum seekers from Darfur in Sudan, have converged in the town of Agadez, in central Niger.
Badererdeen Abdul Kareem dreams of completing his veterianarian studies abroad.
"I almost lost half of my life because of the wars, traveling from Sudan to Libya", he tells us. "And my message to the EU is that I hope they drop this crazy idea that refugees or migrants are not good. I hope they welcome us."
The calls from French president Macron to make transit countries hotspots for migrants has been a pull factor for many who came to Niger.
But the long wait for a reply to their asylum request is pushing some of the most desperate back on the road to Libya, points out our reporter Valérie Gauriat.
