40 greatest pop songs since 2000 ,, 01-16-2018

cancel

The History Of Pop Music In 5 Defining Decades ,, 07-19-2016

Originally consisting of whatever was popular music at the time, pop music has grown into its own ever-evolving genre. Some believe the pop music genre to be shallow, with simple songs about nothing more than partying, drinking, and sex. But the genre has always been so much more—it’s the melting pot of music, a place where sounds of all sorts have been blended together, connected by the melody and structure of traditional pop. And its eclectic sound has not shied away from tackling topics, like love and loss and life—the emotions that sit at the heart of every kind of music.
The 1950s
It began in the age of rock ‘n roll. In the ’50s, the music of the previous decades—including swing music and crooning vocals—was being replaced. Rock was growing, and at the same time as it did, the beginning of true pop music was growing too, out of the creations of producer Mitch Miller. Miller worked at the most successful label of the time, Columbia Records, and he working with the label’s big artists to create a sound that was not confined to one simple genre. He was combining country, blues, and folk music with the mainstream rock sounds that everyone was listening to, and the result was something that took the focus away from the large, sweeping orchestras of the previous decades, and placed it on the emotion of the music, evident in the sounds of artists like Johnnie Ray, Frankie Laine, and Guy Mitchell — all of whom worked with Mitch Miller. This decade was also one of celebration for Elvis Presley, who came around in 1953, and whose songs, like “Hound Dog” were some of the most loved of the time.
The 1960s
Through its beginning, pop had been characterized by its largely teen fan base, and in the ‘60s, when the portable radio was introduced, it became even easier for teens to take their tunes wherever they went. Pop was traveling, and picking up influences — from the beaches of California, bands like the Beach Boys were taking the harmonies from traditional pop songs and layering them with the “surf rock” rhythm that they became known for. But the true driving force of pop in the ‘60s came from across the Atlantic, with Beatlemania and the British Invasion into the American charts. The British Invasion brought rock and pop music and bands to the U.S., where they became wildly popular. The Beatles were among these acts, and their mix of beat, rock, and pop ballads immediately took over American pop charts. Other bands that took part in this invasion included the English pop rock group, The Dave Clark Five. Their single, “Over and Over” was number one on American charts in 1965, beating out the Beatles. Through all of this, the pop genre was forming into something not solely defined by the American solo-pop artists of the previous decade. Now, bands were introduced into the fray, and pop was splitting into sub-genres that included Bubblegum pop—defined by its upbeat sound and its direct aim at teen audiences—and Baroque pop, which blended pop and rock and baroque music together.
The 1970s
Those subgenres of pop began towards the end of the ‘60s, but died out in the ’70s. In their place came the subgenre of power pop, a mix of punk rock and pop, defined by bands like the Romantics, and Cheap Trick. At the same time, country pop was emerging, which stemmed from country artists’ attempts to reach a more mainstream audience. Suddenly, the hooks and melodies of pop were intertwining with the twang and drawl of country music. But the biggest thing the ‘70s did for pop music came in the form of a pop-rock sound: this was the beginning of the era of the Jackson 5, Elton John, and Queen. Elton John, with his repertoire of diverse sounds ranging from pop ballads to arena rock songs, became one of the biggest pop stars of the time. “Bennie and the Jets” and “Don’t Go Breaking My Heart” are regarded today as musical classics. Meanwhile, Queen was venturing from their hard rock song into the arena rock and pop rock that was so popular on the radio at the time, and the Jackson 5 was becoming a pop phenomenon with their own hit singles, like “I Want You Back” and “ABC”.
The 1980s
Digital recording became huge in the ‘80s, and the possibilities it offered allowed pop music to grow even more. Suddenly, synthesizers and electronic sounds could be put into pop music, and as this kind of dance-pop developed, so did genres like techno. And the artists who emerged in these years were revolutionary for pop—Michael Jackson’s Thriller is still the best-selling album of all time. Jackson was becoming the biggest pop star of the decade, followed closely by Prince, who had his own pop stardom to claim. His music, which pulled from pop, rock, funk, and so much more, coupled with his extravagant and flamboyant presence catapulted him into a spotlight never truly faded away. Female pop powerhouses were also coming into play, like Whitney Houston and Madonna. The latter became the most successful female artist of the decade, with songs like “Like A Virgin”. The ‘80s was creating a pop-music culture like no other decade had before it, a culture that would carry through in the decades to come.
The 1990s
While the ‘90s saw pop continuing much as it had been in the past, what it introduced to the genre was girl groups. The decade saw the British Girl group, The Spice Girls, emerge into the American market and become the most commercially successful British Group in North America since the Beatles. They were also the most successful female-pop group, and one of the most successful pop-groups ever, with their single “Spice Up Your Life”. The next ten years would see teen pop groups and singers pop up all over the charts, including the Backstreet Boys with “Quit Playing Games (With My Heart)”, and Britney Spears with “Baby One More Time” — one of the best-selling singles of all time.
The 2000s
By the 2000s, pop was a genre with endless roads for artists to travel down, each with its own flair and twist to the classic traditions of pop music. Teen pop was existing in the music of Britney Spears and Christina Aguilera; pop rock and power pop were making a comeback in the sounds of Blink 182’s “All the Small Things”, opening up a gate for the musicians that would come to be pivotal within the pop-punk genre, like Simple Plan and Fall Out Boy. Towards the end of the first decade of the 2000s, pop was again being influenced with hip hop and R&B sounds through Rihanna’s music, and electronic sounds made themselves known in Lady Gaga’s sounds from her album, Poker Face, which went on to win two Grammys. Pop music had become an electric melting pot of subgenres and sounds that all shared the common tropes of a pop song.
Pop has become so much more than a catchy melody and repeated verses—it’s a representation of the way music and musical trends has evolved throughout the years, gathering up sounds that shouldn’t have worked together, but did, and did so in a way that was immensely loved. Today, pop music is as diverse and rich as it is because of the influences on its evolution. Pop is a complicated, wondrous genre of music where the possibilities feel endless, and the sounds feel like all of your favorites coming home to play.


Musical trends and predictability of success in contempory songs in and out of the top charts ,, 05-16-2018



The 100 Greatest Music Videos of the 21st Century: Critics' Picks ,, 07-24-2018




2014 Was the Year Pop Music Killed Traditional Genres ,, 12-09-2014

In case you hadn't heard, Taylor Swift has a new album out, and in case you hadn't read, it is not a country album. The singer's shift from country to pop on her fifth LP, 1989, has been extraordinarily well-publicized. Everyone is talking about how Taylor Swift isn't a country singer anymore.
But one thing doesn't quite compute: She sounds basically the same.
The genre jump hasn't made a material difference in her popularity, either. In its first week, 1989 sold 1.287 million copies. It's the first platinum album of 2014, and despite being only six weeks old, will be the biggest commercial success of the year if not the decade. The album is on pace to outperform Red, Swift's last album (billed as country), but only marginally. That record sold 1.21 million units in its first week and has since logged 6 million worldwide. Which is to say: For all the hubbub surrounding Swift's jump from country to pop (and her coinciding move from Nashville to New York), the genre switch was inconsequential, if it ever really existed.
That doesn't say that much about Swift, though. It simply reveals one of the biggest trends in pop music: Genre itself (at least in the mainstream) is drifting toward nonexistence.
Every pop star is increasingly relying on many different genres while concocting pop success. According to Nielsen's mid-year 2014 sales report (the most recent holistic data set we'll have until 2015), the first half of 2014 saw a number of crossover artists in the charts' upper ranks. The 10 top-selling digital singles included rap producer-turned-soul producer-turned-singer Pharrell's "Happy," Katy Perry's pop-rap crossover "Dark Horse," Idina Menzel's musical number-cum-pop song "Let It Go," Iggy Azalea and Charli XCX's pop-rap mash-up "Fancy" and Lil John and DJ Snake's supremely confounding "Turn Down for What."
Consider, then, that in the first half of 1994, the Top 10 selling albums (discounting the Lion King) belonged to Ace of Base, Counting Crows, Mariah Carey, Tim McGraw, Toni Braxton, R. Kelly, Pink Floyd, Céline Dion and Snoop Dogg — all artists who fit neatly into genres like pop, alt-rock, R&B, country, R&B, R&B, classic rock, not-good and hip-hop, respectively.
Next to any of those bands, a track like "Turn Down for What" is impossible to categorize. The beat is rooted in trap. The hook relies on a rapper who is more hype-man than emcee. But the rap itself is hardly a rap at all, consisting of only 12 words. "Turn Down" could potentially be described as crunk-trap. But with a tag so specific, what's the point of categorizing a song in the first place?
And like "Turn Down for What," a substantial chunk of this year's top tracks have been collaborations between artists of multiple styles. Iggy Azalea's "Fancy," as others have noted, lives and dies by Charli XCX's pop chorus. Nicki Minaj's rap is the best 30 seconds of Jessie J's pop opus "Bang Bang," and a cameo by Ariana Grande likely hasn't hurt its 18-week chart residency. Of the first half of 2014's Top 10 best-selling tracks, five of them are collaborations between marquee acts. Five more show up in this week's Top 20. The Top 3 tracks on this week's R&B/Hip-Hop Airplay chart are all collaborations.
Crossover appeal is, of course, nothing new. Tim McGraw's 2004 collaboration with Nelly spent 10 weeks atop the Top 40 chart. Faith Hill dominated both country and pop charts in the late '90s. "Picture," by Sheryl Crow and Kid Rock (first a rap artist, then a rap-metal artist and eventually a country-rock artist), peaked at No. 21 on Billboard's Hot Country Songs, No. 17 on Adult Contemporary and No. 4 on the Hot 100.
But while crossover successes were once lucrative anomalies, they're now the norm to the degree that rappers are taking singing lessons to cater to wider audiences. Blake Shelton's country-rap anthem "Boys 'Round Here" occupied spots on both Billboard's Country and Hot 100 charts this year. This week's No. 1 Rock Streaming Song is Hozier's folk-rock "Take Me to Church." The No. 4 slot is Lorde's pop-rock tinged with R&B "Yellow Flicker Beat." At No. 6 is Awolnation's "Sail," which is rooted enough in electronics to anchor an industrial club night. And again, at No. 8, is Lorde ("Royals") — an artist who's indisputably poppy, who rocks indisputably hard and who's just recorded one of the indisputably best hip-hop covers in recent memory:
The trend is even more present the further you get from the Top 10. Azealia Banks, who didn't make Spotify's list of 2014's top-streamed songs nor Nielson's mid-year list of top-selling songs (her album dropped in November) has been labeled everything from hip-house to trap-rap to witch house — a roundabout way of saying her vicious delivery relies on jagged dance beats. Rapper and electronic producer Flying Lotus sounds more like a jazzy Hendrix than a hip-hop artist on his latest, You're Dead!, and doesn't utter a word through half of it. And Chance the Rapper — an artist who won't appear in any Spotify, Nielsen, Billboard or industry lists until he quits giving away music for free — has drifted so far into melodic vocals and live instrumentation he could very well change his name to Chance the Soul Singer.
The reason for so much genre-blending is anybody's guess, but it's likely quite a good thing. More than our listening habits, the Internet is probably responsible for so much tonal cross-pollination. With so many different sounds at the tips of musicians' fingers, they're bound to hear and draw inspiration from a wider pool of genres. Where physical location and regionality used to mold a band's sound — say, East Coast hardcore or Northwestern riot grrrl punk — there's now one common (albeit massive) space to draw inspiration from.
It's diluting all but the most insular of music scenes; but it's also forging a more open-minded listenership: one less willing to dismiss music for its genre, but with a keener sense of what's been crafted with honesty, precision and, above all, talent.




Is 2016 Music's Biggest Year in Decades? ,, 07-03-2016

We spent 2015 wondering when Adele, Kanye, Beyoncé, Rihanna, Drake, and Radiohead would surprise-drop their massive albums. But with the exception of Adele, none of them turned up until the first half of 2016. Was there something in the air that made our biggest stars really go for it this year?
By Jillian Mapes
July 3, 2016
Image may contain Kanye West Human Person Beyonc Musical Instrument Musician Music Band Sunglasses and Accessories
Graphic by by Jojo Sounthone, all photos via Getty images
Consider last weekend a microcosm of the year to date in music. Last Friday, at the Forum in L.A., Kanye West released his video for “Famous,” the *Life of Pablo *song responsible for reigniting his bad blood with Taylor Swift and bringing out the worst in both. Did Kanye blatantly ignore claims that his work is misogynistic, or is Taylor denying her alleged approval to paint herself as a saint? Whatever the “truth” may be, Kanye is never one to shrink back when accused. What was once a cringe-inducing—and yes, wildly misogynistic—line to be ignored was blown up as the clip’s concept, complete with naked wax figures of the very famous in bed together (including Swift). Kanye called it a “comment on fame.” Really, the “Famous” video is the time capsule that our clickbait era deserves, one of those things going around that you feel the need to engage with because *how can you not, *only to ask yourself afterwards, that was it?
If this all sounds exhausting and a bit beside the point of fandom, another big music headline from last week might be more interesting to you, though I must warn you it is a little sad. (That also has been a trend this year.) Sheila E’s tribute to Prince at the BET Awards last Sunday was everywhere you looked, but it had the rare benefit of being even better than you probably expected when you clicked. Moments like this can feel like remedies, acts of artistic expression seemingly removed from the ego and fame-mongering permeating so much of music culture on the internet. This is even more of a feat given its venue, an awards show—essentially a monetized bastion of thirst.With all due respect to her abilities, Sheila E has not been A Name in a couple decades. And yet I could not imagine any Prince fan favoring whatever it was that Madonna did in her Prince tribute at the Billboard Music Awards over Sheila E paying tribute to her friend and former collaborator with everything she had. BET had the good sense to get out of her way. Big marquee tributes to icons at televised events don’t have to be all pomp and circumstance; it’s just that stunts are easier to sell.
As we head into the second half of 2016, it’s worth remembering that the music world’s had no shortage of stunts so far this year. In fact, no big album can be released without one. We spent 2015 wondering when Adele, Kanye, Beyoncé, Rihanna, Drake, and Radiohead would surprise-drop their massive albums. But with the exception of Adele, none of them turned up until the first half of 2016. Was there something in the air that made our biggest stars really go for it this year? ANTI*, The Life of Pablo, Lemonade, VIEWS, A Moon Shaped Pool—*are they simply the products of colliding album cycles and coincidence?
Amid this flurry of high-profile releases, two of music’s most innovative and prolific figures—David Bowie and Prince—left this earth. Each death felt like one last provocation in careers punctuated by them. Music fans mourned Bowie’s January 10th passing, following a secret cancer battle, by clinging to his stunning and meta final album, released just two days earlier, and by spending weeks delving into every facet of his career and iconography. By April 21, we were doing the same for Prince, whose drug-related death still feels like a bad dream. He was supposed to outlive us all, with his perfect 90-year-old ass suspended in chaps. In the time between these two deaths, *ANTI, TLOP, *and *Lemonade *arrived, all with little-to-no advanced warning. In the weeks following Prince’s passing, *VIEWS *finally made its debut after years of (unwarranted) hype, while *A Moon Shaped Pool *pulled back Radiohead’s curtain of slow-simmering secrecy.
I’m not saying all these events are related in a literal, cause-and-effect kind of way, so much as they juxtaposed one another more cosmically. With two crucial musicians ripped from the world so suddenly, maybe time just felt a little more precious. These albums that pop’s perfectionists had been working on over the last couple years demanded their existence now. And in their own ways, the rollouts surrounding each attempted to catch us off-guard, whether that meant hiding in plain-sight via a HBO special, updating in real time so much it made you question the state of the album as a format, or single-handedly capturing the ineptitude of Tidal.
There’s something else at hand here, though—something bigger than Bowie and Prince, if you can imagine that. Historically, art has flourished in times of immense cultural shift. Think of all the great music that came out of the latter half of the 1960s and into the ’70s, as America reckoned with ugly truths about race, gender, sexuality, and war abroad, fighting over what society had been and what it should be. Now think of where we’re at currently with race-related police brutality, with LGBT rights and the growing disassembly of gender as a concept, with violently real threats of terror, and with an election that can feel at times like a close-minded reaction to it all. It’s not hard to imagine listeners clinging more closely to music in these times of fear and uncertainty, and for musicians to feel like it’s time to put art out into the world.
Mainstream music echoed the movements of four and five decades ago, but even art that wasn’t overtly political gets tied up in the general cultural feeling of the era, especially in hindsight. Drake’s work is wholly apolitical—his ego sucks up all the available air—and though *ANTI *is her best album by far, Rihanna isn’t exactly crafting calls to action. But both Drake and Rihanna make music that feels tapped into the sound of *right now, *pop that's oftentimes dark or at least hazy and downbeat.
On the flip side, Lemonade, particularly in its film form, portrays the history of struggle that continues to define black womanhood, at times showing glimpses of Black Lives Matter and feminism in action. Although Radiohead have made more overtly political albums in the past, their informed worldview comes through on A Moon Shaped Pool: “Burn the Witch” and its accompanying video play like commentary on nativist politicians, whether Trump or those behind Brexit. And Kanye? His entire career as a capital-p, capital-s Pop Star is commentary on race, even when he’s musing about something as insipid as a model’s bleached asshole. I consider *TLOP *more of a loose document of what it means to rank among the most famous and polarizing celebrities on the planet at this strange moment in time, bedfellows with Trump in both the “Famous” video and the headlines.
Of course, industry logistics likely played a part in this convergence. Perhaps, following the astronomical numbers put up by Adele’s 25 late last year, pop's elite felt confident that they wouldn't be upstaged commercially by a Brit who can belt them all under the table. Instead they ended up nipping at each other's heels with spectacle after spectacle. Whatever the reasons behind such a notable spike in big releases—whether they trace back to the changes taking shape in wider culture, the fragility of life via our gone-too-soon icons, or music biz scheduling—we’re lucky to be reaping the benefits as listeners. Now, what's left to hear the rest of the year?


The biggest trends in music in 2017 amounted to one thing: a shift in power ,, 12-07-2017

In the world of music in 2017, there were many big moments: the dominance of "Despacito;" the latest albums from Taylor Swift, Kendrick Lamar and Jay-Z; the death of Tom Petty.
But the real milestones of the year went beyond any single song, album, superstar ascent or legendary artist's death.
From hip-hop's dominance, to Latin music's mainstream breakthrough, to the ongoing ripple effect of the #MeToo movement, many of the biggest music trends seem to represent one thing: a seismic shift in power.
Artists of color in 2017 received greater respect and success. The careers of powerful men who had abused their power through sexual harassment and assault were taken down over and over again. And an American president has perhaps never faced more scrutiny from musicians than what we're seeing right now.
Looking back, here are the five major developments in music that will certainly have ongoing ramifications for the future.
ARTISTS HELD ACCOUNTABLE
It's been a rhetorical question for eons: Can you separate the art from the artist? Is it right to consume or champion works of art by someone known or suspected to have committed despicable, even criminal, atrocities?
In 2017, we've come closer to a definitive answer than ever before: No.
Throughout the year, and especially this fall in the wake of the Harvey Weinstein scandal, we've seen seemingly unsinkable careers meet a swift demise, from Bill O' Reilly to Kevin Spacey.
Musicians haven't been impervious. Wisconsin-born actor and singer Tom Wopat was fired from a musical and faces criminal charges, including indecent assault and battery. Rock band PWR BTTM was poised for a major year thanks to acclaimed album "Pageant," but its ascent plummeted amid sexual abuse allegations against frontman Ben Hopkins. Marilyn Manson fired his friend and longtime bassist Twiggy Ramirez following a rape accusation.
Once-powerful Nashville music publicist Kirt Webster is out of work, music mogul  Russell Simmons stepped away from business ventures, and acclaimed acts like Crystal Castles and Brand New have been rocked by the #MeToo movement.
play
But consequences have been grossly inconsistent. R. Kelly, whose career has long endured controversy, was the subject of disturbing reports of running a "cult" where he's reportedly isolated women and subjected them to physical and verbal abuse. But he still toured after the report and released a song called "Juicy Booty" with another controversial figure, Chris Brown. Rising rapper XXXTentacion faced serious charges last fall — including aggravated battery of a pregnant woman — but his first full-length album debuted at No. 2 on the Billboard 200 in August.
But more stars are certain to fall amid new allegations yet to come forward, while listeners and labels are more likely to scrutinize new artists going forward.


How Latin Went Mainstream, and Why It Will Continue to Happen in 2018 ,, 01-26-2018

A grand total of 19 predominantly Spanish-language tracks made it onto the Billboard Hot 100 in 2017.  They include, of course, Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee's “Despacito,” which is now tied for the longest-running No. 1 ever, in any language, on the Hot 100.
While that’s been touted as the big news of the year, the sheer number of Spanish tracks on the chart is of far more import. Consider this: In 2016, only four Spanish-language tracks made it to the Hot 100 and Hot Latin Songs.  In 2015? Three.
Then, in 2017, a spectacular jump to 19. They include the original versions of “Despacito” and “Mi Gente,” as both made the chart in their Spanish versions -- plus “Almost Like Praying,” Lin-Manuel Miranda’s ode to Puerto Rico, whose lyrics include th name of many Puerto Rico cities and towns.
Regardless of how you mix and match it, the reality remains that never in the modern history of the Billboard charts have so many tracks in Spanish coexisted on the Hot 100. So what happened?
The easy answer is streaming. And yes, that’s a huge factor. Streaming numbers are a large part of what informs the Hot 100, and it’s no secret that the global clout of platforms like Spotify and YouTube has allowed an increasing number of Latin tracks to seep into the upper echelons of streaming charts. If we go by radio alone, well, you can be assured that American Top 40 radio isn’t playing Maluma, Wisin or Romeo Santos.
But at the core of this new, unprecedented opening toward Latin music, are fundamental changes in the way the business is conducted and in the music itself.
As far as the music goes, it’s danceable. That’s a major key, because by making us think with our feet instead of our head, it becomes language-agnostic. And it’s produced for a global ear—another major factor, which sounds so obvious, except it isn’t. For years, Latin pop was produced primarily for Latin audiences. Think country: Yes, it has fans outside of its core, but it’s rare to see country music travel to other regions.
Latin pop was largely a crooner’s game. It relied on romantic ballads, heart-wrenching lyrics and heavy, string-laden arrangements. That made for big hits in the Latin realm (and thank God for songs like “Si No Te Hubieras Ido,” “Vuelve” or “El Buen Perdedor" -- how could we have survived heartache otherwise?). But global impact was always the purview of danceable tracks, from Los Del Rio's “Macarena” to Elvis Crespo’s “Suavemente” to Ricky Martin’s “Livin La Vida Loca” to Juanes’ “La Camisa Negra.” These tracks were able to break the barrier of mainstream radio back in the day, in their original versions.
Now, thanks to the impact of reggaeton, we suddenly have an avalanche of danceable Latin tracks with a pop feel, and the combination is universally appealing. Witness Maluma, whose music seems to work in every language and every territory.
The clincher, however, has been collaborations -- both between Latin acts, and between Latin and mainstream acts. Yes, “Despacito” was a hit pre-Bieber, but it became a juggernaut once he got on the track. Same for “Mi Gente” and Beyonce and now, Cardi B with Ozuna on "A Modelo." The fact that the biggest acts in the world want to record in Spanish opens ears for Latin music around the world.
As for the business, Latin divisions are working more closely than ever with their mainstream and global counterparts, and it shows in the consistency of the results.
As Charlie Walk, president of The Republic Group put it, “We’re thinking not as a U.S.-based label but as a global label... Songs like 'Despacito' and 'Mi Gente' become so big globally not just because of the song but because of their sound. In a world where hip-hop is so big, we now get to include the Latin genre as something that plays widely in the mainstream audience.”
If we look back at the past 30 years, we find that occasional Latin hit that broke into the European charts but never quite made it in the mainstream U.S. charts. Now, a different kind of Latin approach has made for global hits that, thanks to streaming, are able to come full circle and work in the U.S. as well. And so, we look back at a Hot 100 chart that had 19 Spanish-language or predominantly Spanish language tracks in the 2017 calendar year.
One month into 2018, the trend shows no signs of abating. There were seven all-Spanish or predominantly Spanish songs on the Hot 100 dated Jan. 20 -- “Despacito,” “Mi Gente,” “La Modelo,” “Echame La Culpa,” “Krippy Kush,” “Corazon” and “Mayores” -- featuring Latin acts from multiple countries collaborating in previously unheard of ways. It could well be a new reality that’s been a long time in the making.


The Biggest Music Stories of 2017 (So Far) ,, 06-16-2017

Speaking about music, 2016 was a beautiful, bountiful year. It's not often that you have almost every titan in pop music let loose full-length projects, and watch so many new promising rookies emerge. So, logic would suggest that 2017 would have to be quiet. But, if anything, things have ramped up.
There are a few possible reasons for this. Some of this year's excellence is the result of the streaming economy, which is still coming into its own and undeniably quickening the metabolism of the music industry. (See: Calvin Harris, who has tried to take advantage of this.) Some are personal, like Drake's return to form in the wake of the record-breaking but artistically disappointing leviathan that was Views. Or Future's calculated run of dominance following his thrilling double release. Some are just timing, like the return of Kendrick Lamar, who was right on schedule for a new album—an album that just happens to be the best of the year.
Now, at the midpoint of the year, we're looking at the biggest music stories of 2017. Here's what's been happening.
Drake Returns to Form
The pressure was on. Drake, disappointed with the critical maligning of Views—his most commercially successful project to date—wanted another hit. Another album that would own the charts, yes, but also reaffirm that he's not just the most marketable, but also in conversation for the best doing it. So, he announced a "playlist," called More Life. Then he delayed it. And delayed it again. And again.
By the time 2017 rolled around, the anticipation had curdled into a sort of morbid fascination—the rumors coming out were vague at best, unpromising at worst. Delays are never a good sign. Then, on his OVO Sound show on Beats 1 in March, Drake unleashed More Life.
The result is a sprawling epic of an album (sorry, playlist). Equal parts gorgeous and menacing, Drake pulled sounds and styles from around the globe to make a collection of music that isn't cohesive in any way, shape, or form, but does prove that Drake is a chameleon; no matter what he tries his hand at, he's more likely than anyone else in the world to succeed at it. On "Do Not Disturb," Drake gets personal, then lets us in on his plans—the 6 God is taking a break (thought not one that involves sitting out the upcoming DJ Khaled album). He'll likely own the year with this record, but we won't be getting more music out of him. See you in 2018. —Brendan Klinkenberg
The Ruler’s Back
On March 2, the Australian Queen of the Teens gave us the green light to reacquaint ourselves with those adolescent exuberances. (I’m old now.) After a four-year hiatus, the singer-songwriter who topped the charts with “Royals” in 2013, is returning with a new album, Melodrama (out now). (The great painting of Lorde that serves as the artwork is from Brooklyn artist Sam McKinnis; he’s rad.) For this LP, she’s working with Jack Antonoff, of fun. and bleachers, and they’re drawing energy from adult contemporary god Don Henley. I’m in. —Ross Scarano
Fyre Fest Is 2017’s Biggest Disaster
Yikes, where to begin with this one. Fyre Festival, was marketed as a luxury music festival that was to take place on the Bahamian island of Great Exuma over two weekends in April and May. What occurred on its first weekend was far from luxurious.
The festival-goers that could actually make it to the island (many were stranded in Miami) expecting villas and gourmet meals were instead treated to FEMA-esque tents and now much-ridiculed cheese sandwiches. The grounds lacked every basic amenity, and the conditions were close to dangerous.
It quickly came to light that the festival was organized by Fyre Media founder Billy McFarland and rapper Ja Rule (who knows), and promoted on Instagram by social media influencers and models like Kendall Jenner and Bella Hadid. On the surface, Fyre Fest looked like a frat bro’s dream vacation. In reality, it was a disaster, and the organizers will paying for it. In the wake of Fyre Fest a new lawsuit seems to arrive weekly, each variations on the same question: was this a con gone bad, or the most incompetently executed festival ever to exist? —Nora-Grayce Orosz
Miley Is Country
Miley Cyrus is having a crisis. In an interview with Billboard, she explained why she's retreating from the black signifiers she adopted to transgress and grow up, to return to a more folky creative place. She said, "That's what pushed me out of the hip-hop scene a little. It was too much 'Lamborghini, got my Rolex, got a girl on my cock'—I am so not that." Hmm.
Once again a white artist scapegoats black music. Miley used hip-hop to get some street cred to appeal to a different audience, but it didn’t work out how she wanted and so now she’s back to being a wholesome country white girl who’s drug free and doesn’t twerk. Got it. We don't need it. —Angel Diaz
Ariana Grande and Manchester
On May 22nd, Ariana Grande’s concert in Manchester, England erupted into chaos when a large bang was heard from inside the arena. What began as an innocent night of fun for all turned into a gruesome nightmare in an instant. The bang that was heard turned out to be a bomb that was set off in a premeditated act of terrorism. The bomb was detonated in the foyer of the massive arena in order to target large crowds exiting the stadium. Twenty-two concert-goers lost their lives and 59 were critically injured from the blast, including young children.
In the aftermath of the horrific attack, the people of Manchester came together in inspiring ways to help the victims and those left stranded at the arena. Cab drivers offered free rides to families and teens seeking refuge from the site, nearby hotels offered displaced children a place to stay until they could locate their guardians, and even strangers online utilized social media to reach out in offering help using hashtags. Ariana Grande sent her thoughts via Twitter after most of the commotion had died down, revealing that she was “heartbroken,” and, “at a loss for words.”
Grande’s management revealed shortly after that she would be suspending the remainder of her tour--she was scheduled to perform at the O2 Arena in London on the 25th, but would be holding a free benefit concert for the city of Manchester to help the victims and families devastated by the bombing. The benefit, “One Love Manchester” took place on June 3rd and acted as both a healing experience and an act of defiance. Fellow friends and high-profile musicians Miley Cyrus, Katy Perry, Coldplay and Pharrell Williams performed, and the benefit united a city in mourning. In the wake of tragedy, attendees showed that they would not let this senseless act of violence dictate how they lived their lives. They would not be broken, they would continue to enjoy the music that made them feel alive. —Nora-Grayce Orosz


15 pop culture moments that helped define 2017 ,, 12-06-2017

From the Oscars mix-up and Wonder Woman craze to the announcement of Beyoncé's babies and the #MeToo movement, a lot has happened in the last 12 months.
Here are the top pop culture moments that helped define 2017.
"Envelopegate" and the Oscars
Presenters Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway walked onstage with the wrong envelope and announced that La La Land was best picture, instead of actual winner Moonlight. The La La Land team had already begun thanking people before producer Jordan Horowitz took to the mike to announce the mix-up. “Sorry, guys, hold on. There's a mistake. Moonlight, you guys won best picture. This is not a joke.”
The best-picture award is the highest film honor in Hollywood, and an Oscar for Moonlight would’ve been a newsworthy underdog win even if the best-picture announcement was flub-free. The indie film, about a gay man confronting his identity, is the first winner to tell a story primarily about and starring black people that isn’t about racism, the civil rights movement or slavery.
Ariana Grande's benefit concert
Grande was performing at the Manchester Arena in northwestern England in May when a suicide bomber detonated an explosive device, killing at least 22 people and injuring more than 100.
The tragedy renewed the public's concerns with concert safety, and prompted the Department of Homeland Security to say there is no evidence of credible threats against music venues in the U.S.
Grande's sold-out benefit, which was planned after the first terror attack, was held in June. The event became a unifier for thousands of attendees and several guests, including Miley Cyrus and Justin Bieber. The joy and dancing from the event was so contagious, even a police officer was caught on camera enjoying the music. Grande went on to become one of the most-followed celebrities in 2017, with 22 million new Instagram followers, putting her total at more than 115 million.
Las Vegas concert shooting
A gunman opened fire on the Route 91 Harvest Festival in Las Vegas, killing 58 and injuring more than 500.
The incident has been called the deadliest shooting in modern U.S. history. It caused performers to cancel tour dates. And it put a spotlight back on issues of live event safety and gun control. However, despite calls for legislative action, proposals including those to expand background checks on firearms haven’t gotten anywhere.
The event specifically impacted the world of country music: Jason Aldean, who was performing at the time of the shooting, visited victims in the hospital; The Country Music Association asked journalists not to talk about the tragedy and gun control at the CMAs, but reversed its decision at the urging of Brad Paisley and others; and country stars, including Caleb Keeter, spoke out about gun control for the first time.
The meteoric rise and fall of Harvey Weinstein
Harvey Weinstein was once at the very top of Hollywood. As accusations of his sexual predation came to light, it didn't just trigger his downfall. It ushered in a tidal wave of exposure of sexual impropriety in the film industry.
Men and women spoke out about harassment, using the hashtag #MeToo, in the wake of the news that movie producer Harvey Weinstein was accused by dozens of women of predatory sexual behavior spanning decades, which The New York Times and The New Yorker first reported in October.
Harvey Weinstein scandal: A complete list of the 83 accusers
The accusations led to Weinstein's downfall: He was fired from the production company he started and figuratively blacklisted. Then, more high-powered Hollywood men fell. The #MeToo movement incited a deluge of sexual harassment and assault allegations. As a result, famous faces in movies, TV and elsewhere, including Kevin Spacey, Matt Lauer and Louis CK, have been summarily fired.
Celebrity responses to hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria
Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria tore through Texas, Florida, the Caribbean and parts of the Southeast in August and September. The storms caused massive flooding, power outages and devastation for millions. Celebrities including Jennifer Lopez, Kevin Hart, J.J. Watt, Ellen Degeneres and the Kardashians challenged others to donate to hurricane aid organizations assisting victims. Lin-Manuel Miranda rounded up fellow Latino artists for the charity song Almost Like Praying to aid Puerto Rico, while Beyoncé, Justin Bieber and Oprah were among the celebs featured at the Hand in Hand telethon for victims of hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
Celebrities from various backgrounds came togethe, raising millions of dollars through social media, multiple telethons and charity songs to benefit victims of the storms.
Beyoncé's pregnancy announcement
Beyoncé took to Instagram in February to announce her pregnancy — with twins! The elaborate photo shoot was the most-liked picture on Instagram for the year, with more than 11.1 million likes, and was only rivaled by her first photo — garnering more than 10.2 million likes — presenting her newborn babies, Rumi and Sir, to the world in July.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's royal engagement
The world’s most eligible royal bachelor was taken off the market in November with the news that he’s engaged to actress Meghan Markle. The announcement came a couple months after the couple made their first appearance together at Harry’s Invictus Games in Toronto.
Markle is the most atypical royal bride ever: She's a divorced, biracial, Jewish American.
Jimmy Kimmel's health care segments
Kimmel became the face of health care in entertainment when he opened up about his infant son’s health problems and emotionally pleaded for affordable health care coverage for all. His son, Billy, has had two surgeries to help treat his pre-existing heart condition.
Health care reform was one of the tenets of Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, and major changes to the Affordable Care Act have fallen short in Congress since Trump’s inauguration. Kimmel often used his opening monologues to try to hold the administration and lawmakers accountable.
The influence of The Handmaid's Tale
The 1985 novel by Margaret Atwood got a critically acclaimed screen adaptation on Hulu in April. The series, a dystopian tale of a group of women forced to become breeders under a new regime, was seen as more relevant than ever to anti-Trump audiences.
The show struck a chord with viewers. Not only did Handmaid’s Tale win five Emmys, including best drama, but women wore the red robes and white bonnets to courtrooms, and eventually the U.S. Capitol, as a way to protest bills seen as restricting women’s rights.
Taylor Swift's comeback
Look what you made her do. Taylor Swift returned after a year out of the public eye with a new look and a new album, Reputation. She also announced a massive 2018 tour.
Swift’s album sold more than 1.2 million copies in its first week, becoming 2017’s fastest and best-selling album
Kendall Jenner's Pepsi commercial
Kendall Jenner appeared in a tone-deaf ad for Pepsi, which showed the model joining a protest in the streets and handing a police officer a can of the soda to help calm the tension. The wildly negative response to the ad caused Pepsi to pull the commercial and issue an apology.
The commercial appeared to make light of serious issues and the Black Lives Matter movement. Having Jenner — who has been accused of cultural appropriation along with other members of her famous family — at the center of the ad did not help. And it was problematic for Jenner, who became the highest-paid model of the year and top model as far as mentions on Tumblr.
The Women's March
Millions of women, and men, marched in Washington, Los Angeles, New York and other cities across the world in January as a direct response to Trump's inauguration. The attendees marched to advocate for legislation involving women’s rights, LGBTQ rights and immigration reform, among other issues. Hundreds of celebrities joined the cause, speaking on stage at the various marches and walking alongside attendees.
The marches helped lay the foundation for the current #MeToo movement, creating an environment where women could speak openly about their experiences and sparking other marches against injustices.
JLo and A-Rod's love story
Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez made their official debut as a couple at the Met Gala in May, and it’s been nothing but cute Instagram photos and loving interviews about their relationship ever since. The picture that Lopez re-posted from Rodriguez was her most-liked picture on Instagram for the year, picking up more than 1.6 million likes.
There have been a lot of tragedies in 2017, so romance between two of the world’s biggest stars is a silver lining.
The hype around 13 Reasons Why
In March, Netflix released the first season of 13 Reasons Why, the adaptation of a 2007 novel about a high school girl, Hannah, who commits suicide and leaves a series of tapes explaining the lead-up to her death. The show immediately became a talker on social media.
The show sparked fears around the way suicide was depicted, and of teenage viewers making light of Hannah's death. The meme “welcome to your tape” was born. Meanwhile, the show encouraged families to have serious discussions of teen suicide after many viewers complained about the way the topic was handled. The controversial series has been renewed for a second season.
Gal Gadot stole the hearts of many as 'Wonder Woman.'
Wonder Woman became the best-reviewed DC Universe film and a box-office hero when it hit theaters in May. The Gal Gadot-led film already has a sequel in the works.
Wonder Woman had the biggest opening ever for a movie directed by a woman with a $100.5 million debut, and presented a turning point for female representation on the big screen. Seeing the feminist film became an event, with fans dressing in Wonder Woman garb and posting about the movie to social media. Wonder Woman was the most-talked-about movie on Tumblr, and Gal Gadot was the second-most-popular actress mentioned on the social media site.
