When was the MH17 plane crash, how many people died and has Malaysia Airlines recovered? ,, 09-28-2016

Find out the facts behind the crash which took place in July 2014
When was the MH17 plane crash, how many people died and has Malaysia Airlines recovered?
FLIGHT MH17 was en route from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur was shot down over Ukraine.
A total of 298 people, including 80 children, died when it broke apart in mid-air flying from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur in July 2014.
Reuters 6 There were 283 passengers, including 80 children, and 15 crew members on board MH17 which crashed in October 2015
Reuters 6 A Malaysian air crash investigator inspects the crash site in Ukraine
A 15-month investigation by the Dutch Safety Board into the Boeing 777-200ER revealed the aircraft had crashed after being hit by a Russian-made Buk missile over eastern Ukraine.
Dutch air investigators concluded that the plane left Amsterdam’s Schiphol Airport at 12:31 local time on July 17 and was due to arrive at Kuala Lumpur International Airport at 06:10.
The board also confirmed the plane lost contact with air traffic control at 13:20 GMT, when it was about 50km from the Russia-Ukraine border.
AP:Associated Press 6 Thehe Joint Investigation Team (JIT) announced the missile did come from Russia
Getty Images 6 The JIT was a two-year probe which was led by the Dutch and was made up of police from a number of countries
Today, the Joint Investigation Team (JIT) made up of police officers from Australia, Holland, Belgium, Malaysia and the Ukraine presented the first findings of the two-year Dutch-led probe.
The group concluded the missile did come from Russia and was fired from territory held by Moscow-backed rebels.
Reuters 6 It has been reported that Malaysian Airline has ‘struggled’ since the shooting down of flight MH17
Reuters 6 A woman walks past wreckage at the crash site in October 2015
In September, Malaysian Airlines reported a decline in passenger loads.
Channel News Asia claimed the airline has ‘struggled’ since shooting down of flight MH17 over eastern Ukraine and when flight MH370 went missing in March.
Chief executive officer Peter Bellew, who assumed his role in July, said competition domestically and globally is ‘intense and is likely to intensify in the second half of the year’.
He also said ‘the airline will increase marketing and sales initiatives and be strict on costs in the second half of 2016’.


French official: Air Algerie flight that disppeared from radar crashed in Mali ,, 07-24-2014

A French Ministry of Defense official tells Fox News that the Air Algerie jet carrying 116 people that vanished from radar shortly after takeoff late Wednesday night has crashed in Mali, and that two French fighter jets have located the wreckage.
Air navigation services lost track of the Swiftair MD-83 roughly 50 minutes after takeoff from Ougadougou, the capital of Burkina Faso, at 9:55 p.m. ET Wednesday, the official Algerian news agency said.
France's foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, told The Associated Press that the flight "probably crashed."
The French Ministry of Defense official told Fox News that the plane went down near the Malian city of Gao, a city essentially under the control of the Malian government, though it has seen lingering separatist violence.
The list of passengers includes 51 French, 27 Burkina Faso nationals, eight Lebanese, six Algerians, five Canadians, four Germans, two Luxemburg nationals, one Swiss, one Belgium, one Egyptian, one Ukrainian, one Nigerian, one Cameroonian and one Malian, Burkina Faso Transport Minister Jean Bertin Ouedraogo said. The six crew members are Spanish, according to the Spanish pilots' union.
Swiftair, a private Spanish airline, said the plane departed Burkina Faso for Algiers at 9:17 p.m. ET Wednesday, but had not arrived at the scheduled time of 1:10 a.m. ET Thursday. Swiftair said it was unable to make contact with the plane.
"In keeping with procedures, Air Algerie has launched its emergency plan," the APS news agency quoted the airline as saying.
Burkina Faso authorities also set up a crisis unit in Ouagadougou airport to update families of people on board the plane, Reuters reports.
The flight path of the plane from Ouagadougou, the capital of the west African nation of Burkina Faso, to Algiers wasn't immediately clear. Ougadougou is in a nearly straight line south of Algiers, passing over Mali where unrest continues in the north.
The plane sent its last message around 9:30 p.m. ET, asking Niger air control to change its route because of heavy rains in the area, Ouedraogo said.
A source also told Sky News that the plane asked to divert its path “to avoid another aircraft.”
Algerian Prime Minister Abdelmalek Sellal said on Algerian state television that 10 minutes before disappearing, the pilots were in contact with air traffic controllers in Gao.
Last week, an armed Islamist group formed by Al Qaeda commander Mokhtar Belmokhtar reportedly claimed responsibility for a suicide bombing that killed a French soldier in northern Mali. In a video posted on the Internet, a spokesman for the group Al-Mourabitoun, identifying himself as Abu Assem Al-Muhajir, said the attack north of Gao, was "a response to French claims that they had annihilated the Mujahideen (Islamic fighters)".
Al-Mourabitoun was formed last year from the fusion of two Islamist groups operating in northern Mali: the Mulathameen brigade, led by the one-eyed Belmokhtar who is thought to have masterminded an attack on an Algerian gas plant last year in which nearly 40 hostages were killed, and the Movement for Unity and Jihad in West Africa (MUJWA), Reuters reports.
A senior French official told The Associated Press that it seems unlikely that these fighters had the kind of weaponry that could shoot down a plane.
The official, not authorized to speak publicly, said on condition of anonymity that they primarily have shoulder-fired weapons -- not enough to hit a passenger plane flying at cruising altitude.
Swiftair took ownership of the plane on Oct. 24, 2012, after it spent nearly 10 months unused in storage, according to Flightglobal's Ascend Online Fleets, which sells and tracks information about aircraft. It has more than 37,800 hours of flight time and has made more than 32,100 takeoffs and landings. The plane has had several owners over the years, including Avianca and Austral Lineas Aereas.
The MD-83 is part of a series of jets built since the early 1980s by McDonnell Douglas, a U.S. plane maker now owned by Boeing Co. The MD-80s are single-aisle planes that were a workhorse of the airline industry for short and medium-range flights for nearly two decades. As jet fuel prices spiked in recent years, airlines have rapidly being replacing the jets with newer, fuel-efficient models such as Boeing 737s and Airbus A320s.
There are 496 other MD-80s being flown by airlines around the world, according to Ascend
"We're aware of reports on Air Algerie Flight AH5017," Boeing spokesman Wilson Chow said. "Our team is gathering more information."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.


12 feared dead after U.S. military aircraft crash in Hawaii ,, 01-15-2016

KAZUHIRO NOGI\/AFP\/Getty Images Two unidentified U.S. military aircraft crashed over Hawaii on Thursday.
Authorities have launched a difficult search for up to 12 survivors Friday in high surf in the Pacific Ocean after two Marine helicopters collided late Thursday off of Hawaii.
Two Sikorsky CH-53E Super Stallion helicopters that carried six people each collided just before midnight Thursday off of Oahu's North Shore about two miles north of Haleiwa Beach, Coast guard officials said.
The helicopters were part of the 1st Marine Aircraft Wing from Hawaii's Marine Corps Base.
Witnesses saw a fireball caused by the collision and responders later found a fire and debris field and an empty life raft in the water below where it occurred, according to U.S. Coast Guard officials.
The initial debris field was a couple of miles offshore but has since moved about eight miles off shore, officials said.
The current search area is about 20 miles and responders are battling unusually high surf with waves reaching 35 to 45 feet.
“That will certainly make our search efforts a little more daunting at this time,” Coast Guard Lt. Scott Carr told Hawaii News Now.
None of the passengers had been identified on Friday afternoon.
With With News Wire Services
lbult@nydailynews.com


Two planes at Newark airport narrowly avoided crash, report says ,, 05-20-2014

Two passenger planes narrowly avoided a mid-air collision at Newark Liberty airport in New Jersey last month, according to a preliminary report from the National Transportation Safety Board.
The two planes came within 400ft vertically and 150ft laterally of each other at 3pm on 24 April, when United Airlines flight 1243, a Boeing 737 arriving from San Francisco, passed over United Express flight 4100 operated by ExpressJet, an Embraer ERJ-145 plane departing to Memphis, Tennessee. The flight numbers and passenger data are not included in the NTSB report but have been cited by CNN.
Neither plane was damaged during the incident.
The report shows that when the Memphis flight was cleared for takeoff, the incoming Boeing 737 was three miles away. But when the Embraer began its takeoff on runway 4R, the San Francisco flight was only a mile from landing on intersecting runway 29.
Realising that the planes were too close, the air traffic controller warned the pilots, instructing the 737 from San Francisco to "go around" – that is, to abort its landing – and for the Embraer to maintain visual contact with it.
About 10 seconds after the 737 was ordered to "go around", a pilot on the Embraer jet told air traffic controllers that the flight crew had "kept the nose down". The pilot said the 737 was "real close", according to an archive recording.
Contacted moments later by air traffic control to confirm takeoff, the Memphis pilot repeated that the 737 was, "real close". The Boeing 737 passed over the ERJ-145 at the intersection of runways 29 and 4R, the NTSB report says.
The report does not say whether the 737 executed the order to go around. It is also unclear why the Embraer did not take off immediately after being cleared to do so.
Contacted by the Guardian, the NTSB declined say whether the 737 carried out the order to abort its landing. Spokesman Eric Weiss said via email that the question "will be answered during the course of the investigation". He added: "This is only the preliminary report."
United Airlines spokesman Christen David said in a statement: "We are working with the NTSB in its review of the incident.”
The Boeing 737 from San Francisco was carrying 160 passengers and six crew members, according to a United Airlines spokesperson. The ERJ-145 to Memphis was carrying 47 passengers and three crew members.


Hot air balloon crash in Texas kills all 16 passengers ,, 07-30-2016

A hot air balloon carrying 16 people caught on fire and crashed in central Texas Saturday — killing everyone on board — in the worst such accident in American history.
The balloon was consumed by a giant fireball before it plummeted to the ground in a remote pasture near Lockhart about 7:30 a.m., authorities and witnesses said.
“It does not appear at this time that there were any survivors of the crash,” the Caldwell County Sheriff’s Office said in a statement.
The Texas Department of Public Safety later confirmed that the pilot and 15 passengers were killed.
Hot-air balloon handler falls to death in ‘freak accident’
The balloon went down over farmland that hosts a row of soaring, high-capacity transmission lines reaching about five stories into the sky.
Investigators survey the wreckage of a downed hot air balloon in Texas. (BBC)
Witness Margaret Wylie said she first heard popping noises outside her home about 30 miles south of Austin. Then she heard a “whooshing” sound.
“The next thing I knew, I saw a big fireball went up, and you’re just praying that whoever is in there got out on time,” she told the Austin American Statesman.
“I used to think I wanted to go up in one, but after this, I don’t think so,” Wylie added. “I may be 66 years old, but I want to live a little bit longer.”
SEE IT: Pig-shaped hot air balloon crashes at Utah festival
Joe Gonzales was driving with his wife Erika when they spotted the balloon hovering over a tree line and barely moving.
Skip Nichols has been identified as the pilot of the doomed balloon. (facebook)
“The flame was really bright like they were trying to go up,” Gonzales said.
“I’d never seen one like that with that many people. It just didn’t look right.”
Authorities confirmed the balloon was operated by Heart of Texas Hot Air Balloon Rides.
The operator, which didn’t return a request for comment, says on its website that its balloons can transport as many as 24 people.
Authorities said there doesn't appear to be any survivors in the worst hot air balloon accident in U.S. history. (BBC)
No information on the victims was released — but friends identified the pilot of the balloon as Skip Nichols, 49.
Investigators with the National Transportation Safety Board were scouring the scene Saturday afternoon. The FBI will also assist in collecting evidence, authorities said.
“It’s much like a crime scene,” said Eric Grosof, of the NTSB. “You only get one chance at it so you have got to do it right.”
The crash came about two years after the NTSB warned of the “high number of fatalities in a single air tour balloon accident” if federal officials failed to adopt stricter regulations.
Police cars block access to the site where a hot air balloon crashed early Saturday. (James Vertuno\/AP)
The safety board wanted balloon operators to be subjected to the same oversight as private airplane and helicopter companies.
But the Federal Aviation Administration formally rejected the recommendations. “Since the amount of ballooning is so low, the FAA believes the risk posed to all pilots and participants is also low,” the FAA ruled, according to the Austin American Statesman.
The initial 911 call came in at 7:44 a.m. as a possible vehicle accident.
“When the emergency responders and the sheriff’s office arrive on the scene it was apparent that the reported fire was the basket portion of a hot air balloon,” Caldwell County Sheriff Daniel Law said in a statement.
Investigators surround the scene in a field near Lockhart, Texas, where a hot air balloon crashed. (Ralph Barrera\/AP)
“Investigators are determining the number and the identities of victims at this time.”
The previous worst balloon accident in the U.S. took place in Aug. 1993 near Aspen, Colo., when a balloon hit power lines severing the basket.
It plummeted more than 100 feet to the ground, killing all six people aboard.
The worst hot air balloon crash in history, in February 2013 in Luxor, Egypt, claimed 19 lives.
Texas Gov. Gregg Abbott extended his condolences to the victims of the latest crash.
“Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families, as well as the Lockhart community,” he said in a statement.


Search and recovery efforts continue in crash of AirAsia Flight 8501 ,, 01-03-2015

Indonesia's National Search and Rescue Agency (BASARNAS), which is leading the operation to find AirAsia Flight 8501, said on Saturday that it has so far recovered the remains of 30 passengers and crew. The plane crashed in bad weather on Dec. 28 with 162 people on board.
The Disaster Victim Identification Police Department of Republic of Indonesia, which is leading identification efforts, has identified a total of six passengers, AirAsia said in a Facebook post published Saturday, with 24 yet to be identified.
See also: Why air disasters keep happening in Southeast Asia
Bags containing dead bodies of the passengers of AirAsia Flight 8501 are lifted to Indonesian navy vessel KRI Banda Aceh at sea off the coast of Pangkalan Bun, Indonesia, Saturday, Jan. 3, 2015.
Twelve of those remains — nine men and three women — arrived on Saturday at Bhayangkara Hospital in Surabaya, Indonesia, AirAsia said, where officials with Indonesia, Singapore and South Korea will begin work on identification.
Abdul Aziz Jaafar, head of the Royal Malaysian Navy, tweeted a photo of one of the bodies being recovered on Saturday.
#QZ8501: KD PAHANG is shown transferring the body recovered yesterday, to the sea-boat of KRI BANDA ACHEH. pic.twitter.com\/f4HdkwWt2R — Abdul Aziz Jaafar (@ChiefofNavy) January 3, 2015
"Our thoughts and prayers remain with the families and friends of our passengers and colleagues on board QZ 8501," AirAsia said in its Facebook post, as search efforts enter the seventh day in the Java Sea.
Two large objects spotted on the sea floor
BASARNAS also announced on Friday night that it may have found the plane's wreckage 100 feet beneath the surface.
Officials say they've identified two large objects resting on the sea floor that may be debris from the plane. Officials also identified an oil slick near the suspected crash site.
Indonesian police stand on the deck of a National Search and Rescue Agency (BASARNAS) ship during a search operation for the victims of AirAsia flight QZ 8501 on the Java Sea, Indonesia, Saturday, Jan. 3, 2015.
"In addition to the discovery of the bodies, joint SAR team also found several objects of that fateful plane," the agency tweeted on Friday.
Selain penemuan jenasah, tim SAR gabungan juga temukan beberapa objek dari pesawat nahas itu. http:\/\/t.co\/CI5blGu5a7 pic.twitter.com\/NgXB39erVt — Badan SAR Nasional (@SAR_NASIONAL) January 2, 2015
"With the discovery of an oil spill and two big parts of the aircraft, I can assure you these are the parts of the AirAsia plane we have been looking for," BASARNAS chief Bambang Soelistyo told reporters on Saturday.
One of the objects is approximately 30 feet long and 15 feet wide, while the second is about 22 feet long.
The agency will attempt to send a remotely operated vehicle 100 feet beneath the waves to try and photograph the objects once the weather improves on Sunday. Approximately 30 to 40 divers are also on standby to confirm that the objects are pieces of the missing plane.
A discovery of Flight 8501's wreckage would likely lead to recovery of its black box, giving investigators a clearer picture of what may have happened in the plane's final moments.
Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.


16 feared dead after hot air balloon crashes in Texas ,, 07-30-2016

DEVELOPING--Sixteen people were feared dead Saturday after a hot air balloon caught on fire and crashed in Central Texas, officials said.
Caldwell County Sheriff Daniel Law said in a statement his office received a 911 call at 7:44 a.m. local time about a possible vehicle accident at a spot near Lockhart, Texas.
He said when emergency responders and deputies arrived on the scene it was apparent that the reported fire was the basket portion of a hot air balloon.
Caldwell County says there are no survivors in hot air balloon incident in Lockhart. pic.twitter.com\/tAmuAIUxy7 — Marcus Officer (@MarcusonFOX7) July 30, 2016
“The Balloon was occupied and it does not appear at this time that there were any survivors of the crash,” the sheriff said. “Investigators are determining the number and the identities of victims at this time.”
The balloon was carrying 16 people, officials said.
Lynn Lunsford with the Federal Aviation Administration said in a statement that the accident happened when the hot air balloon caught fire and crashed into a pasture.
Lunsford said that the FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board are going to the scene to investigate.
Lockhart is about 30 miles south of Austin.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.


Germanwings crash: airliners change cockpit rules after co-pilot blamed – as it happened ,, 03-26-2015

“We are horrified to discover today that the aircraft that crashed in the south of France appears to have been crashed deliberately – probably by the co-pilot of flight 4U9525. Based on audio taken from the voice recorder, the French authorities have come to the conclusion that after the aircraft had reached cruising altitude, the captain left the cockpit for a short time and was then unable to re-enter.
“It appears that the co-pilot, who had stayed in the cockpit, prevented the captain from re-entering by fully locking the cockpit door in order to then initiate the fatal descent. All Germanwings and Lufthansa employees are deeply shocked. We could never have imagined that a tragedy like this could occur within our company.
“Yet even after this terrible event, we have full faith in our pilots. They remain the best in the world; this event is an extremely tragic isolated incident.
“We share in the sadness, shock and incomprehension of the bereaved families and friends and that of millions of other people.”


Basketball coaches and pilot killed in Virginia hot-air balloon crash ,, 05-12-2014

The two University of Richmond basketball coaches killed in a hot-air balloon crash on Friday were a beloved long-time assistant who was part of one of the most revered moments in the programme's history, and a woman who was hardly out of college and always cheerful and willing to help.
The pilot, Daniel T Kirk, was also killed when the balloon drifted into a power line and burst into flames. He had 20 years of flying experience and was affectionately known as “Captain Kirk”.
At the university's graduation on Sunday, a moment of silence was held for the coaches – director of basketball operations Natalie Lewis and associate head coach Ginny Doyle.
As a senior for the Spiders, Doyle set an NCAA record – for men or women – by making 66 consecutive free throws, an accomplishment that earned her dubious recognition from CBS college basketball analyst Billy Packer. Packer, an 81.9% free-throw shooter at Wake Forest, scoffed at the record on air and noted that women use a slightly smaller ball, which in his mind made it less impressive.
Hearing that Packer was going to be in Richmond on another matter, the school invited him to come shoot against Doyle, and about 1,200 fans watched the duel at the Robins Center on 2 February 1992.
It was no contest: Doyle, using a men's ball, made 20 of 20, with only two of them touching the rim. Packer, to the delight of the crowd, missed eight of his 20 attempts.
Doyle's record has since been broken, but years later her foul shooting, as well as her love of the game and her players, remained on display, according to Robert Fish, a Richmond alum who also has called women's games on radio.
Doyle, 44, was hired by Bob Foley at Richmond in 1999 and stayed on through a couple of coaching changes.
Lewis was a four-year letter-winner in swimming who just completed her second season with the basketball programme. Her job required organisation skills as she made travel, hotel and bus arrangements for the team, planned for meals and handled day-to-day basketball business.
In the grind of a season, broadcaster Matt Smith said, she was a shining light, too.
"Sometimes when you work in sports, coaches can be so high strung and so focused on the next game or what's going on that you feel almost uncomfortable when you go into the office, but her being the first one that you would see, she always had a smile on her face," Smith said.
Kirk, of Delaware, was known by fellow pilots as "Captain Kirk", after the hammy commander of the USS Enterprise on the TV series Star Trek.
Steve Hoffmann, who said he taught Kirk to fly and built the balloon he was piloting, called him "one of the nicest guys in the world" and a consummate professional.
"He was not a hot dog, not a risk taker," Hoffmann said. "It's so unbelievable that everyone's in shock."
The balloon was among 13 that lifted off Friday on a preview night for the Mid-Atlantic Balloon Festival. It drifted into a power line, burst into flames and fell into a heavily wooded area about 25 miles north of Richmond.
On the ground, "it was complete silence", spectator Nancy Johnson said. "There were people praying. It was horrible."
State police spokeswoman Corinne Geller said another pilot interviewed by investigators described how the pilot tried to open vents to release extra-hot air in an attempt to keep the balloon from rising faster.
"Based on witness accounts, he did everything he could to try to save the passengers' lives," Geller said.
The National Transportation Safety Board is investigating.


Russian plane crash: dozens killed as 737 crashes at Kazan airport ,, 11-17-2013

Fifty people have died after a Boeing 737 crashed while attempting to land at the international airport of Kazan, the capital of the republic of Tatarstan, 500 miles east of Moscow. The plane belonged to the local Tatarstan Airlines. There were 44 passengers and six crew on board, among them the son of Tatarstan's president and a top local security official.
One Briton was among the dead, the Foreign Office confirmed. It said it was providing consular assistance to those affected.
Witnesses at the airport heard a loud explosion when the plane hit the runway at 7.20pm local time, an hour after taking off from Moscow. The cause of the crash was not immediately known, but authorities speculated that pilot error or technical failure were the most likely explanations. Leftover fuel in the tanks is believed to have sparked the explosion.
According to witnesses, the pilots aborted the first landing attempt, and when the plane descended a second time, it crashed and caught fire. The pilots reportedly informed the tower that the plane was not ready for landing when it was 500 metres (1,640ft) from the runway.
Lenara Kashafutdinova, a journalist who said she had flown on the same aircraft from Kazan to Domodedovo airport in Moscow earlier in the day, told Channel One state television that the landing in Moscow had been frightening because of a strong vibration during the final minutes of the flight.
While there had been snowfall at the airport, Russian airlines are used to operating in wintry conditions, and the authorities described weather conditions at the time of the crash as "normal". The airport was closed for landings immediately after the incident.
"When we were landing, it was not clear whether there was a strong wind – although in Moscow the weather was fine – or some kind of technical trouble," said Kashafutdinova. "We were blown in different directions, the plane was tossed around. The man sitting next to me was white as a sheet."
As emergency services worked at the scene of the disaster on Sunday evening, relatives of the victims gathered at the airport. The authorities published a list of casualties within hours of the crash.
Irek Minnikhanov, the son of the Tatarstan president, Rustam Minnikhanov, was listed among the dead, along with Aleksandr Antonov, the chief of the local directorate of the FSB, Russia's main security body.
The accident is the worst in the history of the Tatarstan airline, which is owned by the republic's government. It is believed that the plane was 23 years old.
Russian airlines have suffered several fatal accidents in recent years. Industry experts point to a number of problems, including poor crew training, crumbling airports, lax government controls and widespread neglect of safety protocols in the pursuit of profits.
The last fatal crash was in December, when a Russian-made Tupolev belonging to Red Wings airline careered off the runway at Vnukovo airport in Moscow, rolled across a snowy field and slammed into the slope of a nearby road, breaking into pieces and catching fire. Investigators say equipment failure caused the crash, which killed five people.
A 2011 crash in Yaroslavl that killed 44 people including a professional hockey team was blamed on pilot error. And Russian investigators found that the pilots involved in two crashes that killed 10 and 47 people in recent years were intoxicated.


Olympic skater Debi Thomas is broke in bug-infested trailer ,, 11-07-2015

Fallen Olympic figure skater and doctor Debi Thomas is now living in a bed bug-infested trailer park where she's penniless and begging former fans for money, she revealed in a new interview.
The 48-year-old former athlete has hit rock bottom nearly 30 years after becoming the first African American to win the women's title at the U.S. Figure Skating Championships, she told Iyanla Vanzant on the relationship expert's "Fix My Life" series.
"(I feel) frustrated," the once-trailblazing Thomas says before breaking down in tears in the emotional episode that aired Saturday on the Oprah Winfrey Network.
The two-time U.S. national champion and 1988 Olympic bronze medalist turned to the renowned life coach after "crippling life challenges" from two divorces left her family broke and forced her to shut down her medical practice in Virginia.
A desperate GoFundMe page she started about 10 months ago failed to raise even a quarter of what she had hoped.
Jonathan Fickies\/Getty Images for Stargames Debi Thomas skates during The Caesars Tribute in 2010 in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Enlarge JEROME DELAY\/AFP\/Getty Images Debi Thomas performs at the women's competition in 1988 in Calgary at the Winter Olympic Games. Enlarge Debi Thomas skates during The Caesars Tribute in 2010 in Atlantic City, New Jersey in the photo on the left. She performs at the women's competition in 1988 in Calgary at the Winter Olympic Games in the photo on the right.
Thomas is now living in a run-down mobile home in the Appalachian Mountains with her fiancé, who has admitted to having alcohol and anger issues, and his two children. She lost custody of her 13-year-old son.
"You got to a point where you couldn't afford to do anything other than live in a trailer. Is that what I'm hearing you say?" Vanzant asks before ripping into Thomas for only feeling "frustrated" at her heartbreaking circumstances.
"Not sad, not angry, not ashamed?" the TV host asks.
"No," Thomas responds.
Oprah Fallen Olympic skater Debi Thomas breaks down as she asks life coach Iyanla Vanzant to help turn her life around.
"Not guilty that you've got a man, two kids and a bedbug infestation in a trailer," Vanzant says. "Frustration is what you feel? Nothing else?"
Thomas starts to cry and shakes her head as Vanzant digs deeper, according to a short clip.
"This is what I know: You're living in a trailer in the Appalachian Mountains and your son ain't with you!" she shouts. "You're raising somebody else's children! So, you can tell me whatever you want to tell me. Telling yourself the truth is important."
The Poughkeepsie, New York native pursued a medical degree after graduating from Stanford University in 1991 and soon after became an orthopedic surgeon.
Debi Thomas\/via GoFundMe Debi Thomas and her fiance, Jamie Looney, started a GoFundMe page to ask fans for help fixing their financial struggles.
Thomas lays out a list of ambitious prospective projects she had hoped to complete in the fundraising page that collected about $2,000 out of the $10,000 goal. One of her plans was to star in a reality TV show.
"What we need now is help keeping our heads above water until we can make our dreams a reality," she pleads in a video posted on the GoFundMe page.
The episode is aired on Saturday at 9 p.m.
mchan@nydailynews.com


NBC skiing analyst cites female Olympic skiers’ makeup ,, 02-12-2014

The intent of the report from NBC skiing analyst Steve Porino during today’s women’s downhill competition was noble. He stood out on the mountain to convey to NBC viewers just how steep and treacherous is the course for this exciting competition. With the help of some nifty graphics from NBC, Porino spoke of the course’s so-called “Forest Drop,” a part of the mountain that the skiers enter at 60 mph. It has a 70 percent grade, twice the pitch of “your roof,” Porino said. In the space of nine seconds, he continued, these extraordinary female athletes descend the height of the Washington Monument, all while making turns. Altogether, they barrel ahead at three G forces, which is like “having an offensive lineman on your back.”
Now it was time for the little segment’s kicker, which Porino handled like this: “All of that while in a Lycra suit, maybe a little bit of makeup — now that is grace under pressure.”
Perhaps, but it’s not good broadcasting under any circumstances. Though Porino did a great job of explaining the physics of the downhill run, why the merely tangential mention of makeup? Isn’t it cosmetic products that define these incredibly talented women, anyhow?
Twitter was merciless toward Porino’s alpine stereotyping:
A Lycra suit & “a little bit of makeup”?! Are you kidding me?! Flying down a mountain at 60+MPH & this guy mentions makeup?! #Olympics2014 — Melissa (@melissarochelle) February 13, 2014
“And they’re doing it all in nothing but a Lycra suit, and maybe a bit of makeup” NBC commentator on women’s downhill skiing #seriouslyNBC — J.A. Carter (@jacarterphd) February 13, 2014


Dominance Over: Kerri Walsh Jennings Suffers First Olympic Loss In Beach Volleyball Semis ,, 08-17-2016

One of the most dominant runs in sports has come to an end. Kerri Walsh Jennings is now 26-1 in Olympic beach volleyball after suffering her first loss in four Olympics Tuesday night in the Rio semifinals.
After playing on the U.S. Women's Indoor Volleyball Team in the 2000 Olympics, Walsh Jennings moved to beach volleyball. Teaming with Misty May-Treanor, she won her first World Championships in 2003 in Rio de Janeiro. From 2003-2012, Walsh Jennings and May-Treanor won three Olympic gold medals, three World Championships gold medals and one World Championships silver medal. Entering her fourth Olympics on the beach in 2016, Walsh Jennings had never lost a match. She lost one Olympic set, coming in 2012.
May-Treanor retired after the 2012 Olympics, where the duo won gold with Walsh Jennings five weeks pregnant. Since 2013, Walsh Jennings has partnered with April Ross, a silver medalist in London. The duo won all four of their 2016 AVP Tour Olympic tune-ups. Through the quarterfinals, Walsh Jennings and Ross were 5-0, losing just one set along the way.
Brazilian pairing Ágatha and Bárbara, the No. 2 seed, came into the match 4-1, but proved less vulnerable than the Americans. Feeding off a hometown crowd shaking the sand at Copacabana Stadium for the midnight local time start, Ágatha and Bárbara claimed a tight first set and kept at least a two-point lead most of the second set. With a score of 22-20, 21-18, Brazil punched its ticket to the final and delivered Kerri Walsh Jennings her first-ever Olympic loss.
"They outplayed us pretty much in every way," Walsh Jennings said after the match. "Not out-hustled us, not out-hearted us, not out-team work us. Just outplayed us."
Ágatha and Bárbara get Germans Laura Ludwig and Kira Walkenhorst in the gold medal match Wednesday. Walsh Jennings and Ross will play for bronze Wednesday against Brazilians Larissa and Talita, the No. 1 seed. Larissa won a bronze medal in London.
Brazil takes down Kerri Walsh Jennings and April Ross in 2 sets. #BeachVolleyball #Rio2016 pic.twitter.com\/0w3EeUEr5v — NBC Olympics (@NBCOlympics) August 17, 2016
More Olympics:
-- 5 Weirdest Jobs At This Year's Olympics
-- We Never Understood How Great Ryan Lochte Was
-- Watch 15-Year-Old Michael Phelps Predict He'll Win Gold Medals
Follow Jeffrey Eisenband on Twitter @JeffEisenband.


LeBron James tells Team USA that he will not play in the Rio Olympics ,, 06-23-2016

LeBron James might be the best player in the world, but the Cleveland Cavaliers star will not prove that on a world stage this summer. James reportedly informed Team USA he will not take part in this summer’s Olympics, becoming the latest NBA superstar to skip the Rio Games.
James joins Stephen Curry, Russell Westbrook, Kawhi Leonard and Chris Paul as some of the biggest names opting out of Team USA this summer.
"I could use the rest," James told Ceveland.com.
James has been a staple for Team USA for much of his professional career, helping the U.S. win two gold medals and a bronze in three Olympics.
James just led the Cavs to their first NBA title, ending Cleveland’s 52-year drought of professional titles. He became the first player to lead both teams in points, rebounds, assists, steals and blocks in a playoff series.
And it appears Team USA won’t have Gordon Hayward either. The Jazz forward turned down an offer to play for the U.S., according to the Deseret News.
While players have cited rest and recovery from injuries as reasons to skip the Summer Games, there are growing concerns about the potential health hazards of the water in Rio, as well as the Zika virus.


Rio Olympics 2016: Usain Bolt throws javelin with lights out inside Olympic Stadium ,, 08-21-2016

Jamaica sprint superstar completed his amazing triple triple of golds before lugging javelin further than Jessica Ennis-Hill
IT seems there is nothing Usain Bolt can’t do at the Olympics – able to move like an arrow… and throw them too!
Not content with his astonishing TRIPLE TRIPLE of sprint golds, it has emerged that the Jamaican superstar has an arm like a shotgun.
Twitter \/ ​Franck Ballanger 7 Usain Bolt stuns Olympic Stadium staff by giving the javelin a try
Twitter \/ ​Franck Ballanger 7 Bolt launches the javelin to the air at 1.40am in Rio
Twitter \/ ​Franck Ballanger 7 His effort lands in the turf before being measured at an impressive 55metres
Reuters 7 Bolt broke sprint records by winning three golds at three Olympics
Usain Bolt celebrates ninth Olympic gold medal by throwing the javelin
With the lights out at 1.40 in the morning inside Rio's Olympic Stadium, there was one final cheer for the day after Mo Farah had clinched another Great Britain gold - helping take Team GB past their tally from London 2012.
And it came as giant sprinter Bolt appeared with a javelin in his hand!
Related stories Officials Roo-ined it GB sprinter Martyn Rooney 'even angrier' after watching replay of relay disqualification OH YES! Christine Ohuruogu and Co take bronze in 4x400m relay to take GB past medal tally from London 2012 WALK OVER Bianca Walkden clinches bronze for Team GB as up-and-down week for taekwondo Brits comes to an end Quad goals Mo Farah admits he won his fourth Olympic gold medal by resting up in his room and doing NOTHING DRUNKEN LIES Teary Ryan Lochte admits he was drunk when he 'over-exaggerated' account of Rio petrol station robbery COMETH THE FARAH Mo Farah completes historic Olympic double-double with 5,000m gold - repeating 2012 heroics Neym and fortune Emotional Neymar breaks down in tears after sinking winning penalty to send Brazil to Olympic glory GOODBYE Rio Olympics 2016: Your full guide to the who, what, where and when of the Closing Ceremony
Bolt urged the remaining staff inside the stadium to cheer him on before launching his arrow against a backdrop of empty seats.
The attempt was then reportedly measured at a not-too-shabby 55 metres!
And, to put that into perspective, that is nine metres further than GB heptathlete Jessica Ennis-Hill threw in picking up her silver medal in Rio.
PA:Press Association 7 Bolt had won the 200m earlier this week to grab his second gold of the Games


Mexican Billionaire Tycoon Carlos Slim To Sell Winter Olympic Games Broadcasting Rights To Government TV Channel ,, 11-04-2013

América Móvil (NYSE:AMX), the Mexican telecommunication giant controlled by billionaire tycoon Carlos Slim, has agreed to sell the exclusive rights to broadcast the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Mexico to government-owned television channel Canal 22, the Mexican daily Reforma reported.
Arturo Elías Ayub, Slim’s spokesperson and son-in-law, declined in an e-mail to say how much Canal 22 will pay for the rights, arguing that “it’s a private deal.” Elías didn’t say if the agreement includes the broadcast rights for the 2016 Summer Games, which América Móvil also owns.
Canal 22 is a government-owned cultural TV channel which has a small audience compared to Mexico’s TV duopoly, Televisa and TV Azteca. Details of the agreement will be known on Wednesday, when it is expected to be signed in Mexico City.
“For Slim and América Móvil, it’s clear that the deal is a way to gain access to open TV broadcasting without having to depend on Televisa or TV Azteca. The relationship between Slim and Televisa and TV Azteca fractured in 2011 around the ‘advertising wars,’” said Jenaro Villamil, an expert on Mexican TV and author of several books on Televisa’s relationship with the Mexican government.
In 2011, Slim stopped advertising with Televisa and TV Azteca after a dispute over phone rates and TV advertising rates.
Villamil opined that while in general terms the deal helps Slim and América Móvil, it blurs Canal 22’s original purpose as a cultural and alternative TV channel. ”Canal 22 could now be perceived as a channel that is ‘for rent’ or ‘for sale’ in the future,” he added.
Last March, América Móvil won the exclusive broadcast rights to the winter Olympic Games, which will take place February 7 to 23 in Sochi, Russia, as well as the rights to the 2016 Summer Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, for all of Latin America (with the exception of Brazil). Neither Slim nor the International Olympic Committee revealed at that time the amount that América Móvil paid for the exclusive rights in Latin America, but Mexican analysts estimated it at $110 million dollars. The broadcasting deal gave Slim a foot in the door to try to enter the paid TV market, which he can now do thanks to the Mexican anti-monopoly telecommunication bill approved earlier this year. The law calls for the creation of two new private TV networks in Mexico.
Currently Telmex and Telcel, two of America Móvil’s subsidiaries, dominate the telephone, broadband and paid TV industries in 17 Latin American countries. In March, Elías left open the option of reselling the rights not only in Mexico but in any of those Latin American countries.
The right to offer paid TV, which America Movil has been barred from doing by regulators, has been the subject of one of Slim’s most bitterly contested struggles. Emilio Azcarraga and Ricardo Salinas Pliego, Slim’s billionaire rivals, both own companies—Televisa (NYSE:TV) and TV Azteca respectively—that together broadcast to 100% of Mexican TV audiences.
Slim is the world’s second richest man. Forbes currently pegs his net worth at $68 billion, a drop from Forbes’ $73 billion estimate in March 2013.
Twitter: @DoliaEstevez


Hammers confirm Olympic Stadium switch ,, 03-22-2013

WEST HAM have confirmed the Olympic Stadium will be their new home from the start of the 2016\/17 season.
Retractable seats are to be installed around the pitch and an expanded roof will be part of a multi-million-pound transformation of the landmark London 2012 venue.
Revealing the Hammers have agreed a 99-year lease, vice-chairman Karren Brady said: “A capacity of at least 54,000 seats will see us amongst the top five-attended clubs in the Premier League.
“In addition, we are moving to one of the best connected stadiums in Europe, set in its own parkland with world-class facilities.
“The move provides an opportunity to improve our fortunes on every level including opening doors to new revenue streams.”
FROM FIREWORKS TO FOOTBALL ... the Olympic Stadium will host the beautiful game from 2016
London Mayor Boris Johnson added: “This is a truly momentous milestone for London’s spectacular Olympic Stadium, ensuring its credible and sustainable future.
“Through this deal with West Ham, we are defying the gloomsters who predicted this landmark would become a dusty relic.
“With a series of world-class entertainment and sporting fixtures already in the bag for Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, this iconic site is set to be the glittering centrepiece of ambitious regeneration plans for East London."
The plans for the future of West Ham’s current Upton Park stadium and the surrounding area remain confidential for the time being.
RELATED STORIES Ferdinand defends decision to be a TV pundit in Qatar


Microsoft’s Azure faces new challenges in streaming Rio Olympics coverage ,, 08-01-2016

This year’s Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, which run August 5-21, won’t be the first time NBC has used Microsoft’s Azure cloud to compile, process and stream its live and on-demand audiovisual coverage. Azure Media Services, a Platform as a Service (PaaS) three years old, did the same thing for several Super Bowls, and it filled that role for NBC during the Winter Olympics in Sochi two years ago.
But there are some big differences this time around, said Sudheer Sirivara, general manager of Azure Media Services, in an interview with GeekWire.
Rio is only one time zone later than the Eastern U.S., so the amount of live coverage consumed will be far greater, he said. The summer Olympics have three times as many events as the Winter Games. A record 4,500 hours of 1080p content will be streamed, with more than 100 “channels” (individual events) — double the number from Sochi, at double the resolution (Sochi was telecast in 720p).
More than one million people are expected to watch live at the same time. And there’s a far larger number of devices on which people will be watching, including smartphones, laptops, tablets, desktops, of course TVs, and streaming sticks like Roku and the Amazon Fire Stick.
“I have a healthy nervousness,” Sirivara confessed. “When you have that kind of audience watching a premiere event, you cannot afford to have any slip-ups. But we’ve done this in the past, and we’re quite confident, as well.”
It’s a high-profile undertaking for Azure at a time when Microsoft is trying to bring aboard more corporate customers for its cloud computing platform and close the gap against market leader Amazon Web Services.
Data will move from Rio to Stamford, Conn., where the NBC Sports Group is based. Azure’s East Coast and West Coast data centers, in Virginia and California, respectively, will both be used, for the sake of redundancy — either center can re-route to the other if necessary. Using two centers also allows caching the data closest to viewers. More than 20,000 cores and “multiple petabytes” of storage will be involved. Though Sirivara couldn’t say how many personnel will be involved in the effort, he said everyone on staff will be on call in case of an emergency.
Microsoft will be working with Adobe’s TV delivery and monetization services, which it said will help programmers deliver online video and ads.
[Related: How Microsoft is turning Bing into a Summer Olympics TV guide and information hub]


Olympic sprinter Oscar Pistorius pleads not guilty as murder trial opens ,, 03-03-2014

March 3, 2014 - Oscar Pistorius is watched by June Steenkamp, 2nd right, the mother of Reeva Steenkamp, as he arrives for his trial at the high court in Pretoria, South Africa. Pistorius is charged with murder with premeditation in the shooting death of his model girlfriend Steenkamp in the pre-dawn hours of Valentine's Day 2013.AP
The first witness in the Oscar Pistorius murder trial testified Monday to hearing "blood-curdling" screams from a woman before she heard four gunshots on the night the double-amputee Olympian killed his girlfriend.
Michell Burger, who lives about 196 yards from Pistorius' house, said the screams woke her in the pre-dawn hours of Feb. 14 last year, when Pistorius killed Reeva Steenkamp by shooting four times through a toilet door.
Pistorius, 27, says he killed Steenkamp by mistake thinking she was a dangerous intruder. Prosecutors, however, say the world-famous athlete shot his girlfriend after a fight. As soon as the trial started they used Burger's testimony to hint at a loud argument before the fatal shots.
Burger's evidence contradicts Pistorius' version of events because the runner said he thought Steenkamp was in bed and did not describe any woman screaming.
"It was very traumatic," Burger said. "You could hear it was blood-curdling screams. You can't translate it into words. The anxiousness in her voice, and fear. It leaves you cold."
Burger said: "She screamed terribly and she yelled for help" and testified that she also heard a man shout for help before the shots were fired.
Pistorius' lawyer, Barry Roux, opened his cross-examination by asking Burger if she thought Pistorius was a liar. She didn't directly answer that but questioned Pistorius' version.
"I can only tell the court what I heard that evening," Burger said. "I cannot understand how I could clearly hear a woman scream but Mr. Pistorius could not hear it."
Roux, in an attempt to discredit her recollection of the sequence of events, argued that she heard just Pistorius screaming for help and trying to get into the bathroom by breaking down the locked door with a cricket bat.
Burger didn't concede ground, saying there was "no doubt" in her mind she heard two different people screaming, one a woman, and then the four gunshots, with a gap between the first shot and then the other three. She said she could not mistake gun shots for the sound of a cricket bat hitting a door.
The trial started 90 minutes late. Pistorius pleaded not guilty to charges of murder and three other counts relating to shooting guns in public in unrelated incidents and illegal possession of ammunition. Wearing a dark gray suit and black tie, he wrote in a pad and sometimes passed notes to his defense lawyers. At one point he smiled to a person sitting behind him.
The Olympian's murder trial is being broadcast live on TV in South Africa and across the world.
Defense lawyer Kenny Oldwadge laid out Pistorius' legal strategy, reading a statement from Pistorius in which he says the killing was an accident and that there were inconsistencies in the state's case.
Pistorius said he brought two fans in from the balcony on the night after speaking to his girlfriend who was in bed beside him. He said Steenkamp must have gone into the bathroom while he was fetching the fans. Pistorius said he did not notice that she had gone then heard the bathroom window open.
"I approached the bathroom, armed with my firearm, so as to defend Reeva and I," Pistorius said in the statement. He said he then heard a noise in the toilet cubicle and was in a "fearful state" because he was unable to run away or defend himself physically since he was not wearing his prosthetic legs. He said he shouted at what he thought was an intruder and then shot through the toilet door, only later realizing that he shot Steenkamp.
Reeva Steenkamp was a glamorous model and budding reality TV show star when she was cut down at age 29.
In the courtroom, Pistorius was seated near Steenkamp's mother, June. She was quoted in the Pretoria News from an interview she gave to a British newspaper saying that she wants to see him.
"I want to look at Oscar, really look him in the eyes, and see for myself the truth about what he did to Reeva," said June Steenkamp, 67. "Whatever the court decides at the end of his trial, I will be ready to forgive him ... But first I want to force him to look at me, Reeva's mother, and see the pain and anguish he has inflicted on me. I feel I need that."
At the start of the morning, showing the media intense interest in the trial, a drone carrying cameras flew over the entrance to the courthouse in gray, drizzly skies. Several broadcasters massed live broadcast satellite trucks around the courthouse. A 24-hour cable channel devoted to covering the trial was launched in South Africa on Sunday.
If convicted on the murder charge, Pistorius could be sent to prison for at least 25 years before the chance of parole, the minimum time someone must serve if given a life sentence in South Africa. South Africa does not have the death penalty.
Judge Thokozile Masipa, hearing the biggest trial of her career, will ultimately pronounce the champion runner innocent or guilty and will decide on any sentence. South Africa has no trial by jury.
As Pistorius left the courthouse, people erupted in hoots and a few boos.


Olympic God Michael Phelps Ends Retirement. Is Rio 2016 in Sight? ,, 04-14-2014

Joining the ranks of Michael Jordan, Brett Favre and other superstar athletes who retired from their respective sports and then reversed those decisions, Olympic swimmer Michael Phelps is hopping back in the pool, prompting speculation that he's eyeing another Olympic appearance at the 2016 Summer Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Phelps, 28, will compete at the Arena Grand Prix in Mesa, Ariz., from April 24-26, his coach told the Associated Press on Monday. This will be his first time competing since the 2012 Olympics.
See also: Michael Phelps at 15 Proves Even Olympians Have an Awkward Stage
Phelps won four gold medals and two silver medals at the London Games in 2012 and a record eight gold medals at the Beijing games in 2008. (Overall, he has earned 22 Olympic medals, 18 of them gold, in his career.) Phelps retired after the 2012 Games, saying he didn't want to continue as a professional swimmer into his 30s.
But Phelps' coach, Bob Bowman, said on Monday that the superstar has been training with his team at the North Baltimore Aquatic Club for five days a week.
"He's gotten back into good shape since September," Bowman told the AP. "He can give a good effort and certainly not be embarrassed. He's in enough shape to swim competitively."
Phelps himself had remained mum on the subject, both to reporters and on social media, at time of writing.
Officially ending his retirement would be Phelps' logical first step if he wants to compete in Rio in 2016, or get back into competing internationally at all. But Bowman told the AP that such speculation is premature. Phelps would still need to progress through several steps to qualify for the 2016 Olympics.
Bowman said Phelps' participation in the U.S. National Championships this August — where swimmers will compete to represent the U.S. at the 2015 world championships — will depend on his early races.
"I wouldn't say it's 100% on the radar," Bowman said of the U.S. National Championships. "After Mesa, we're going to sit down and talk about it."
With the thirst for greatness Phelps has shown since he was a teenager, though, it's hard to imaging the Olympic god is simply testing these waters.
20 Gold Medal Winners From the 2014 Paralympics
Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.


Microsoft launches Calendar Apps in Outlook for iOS and Android as Sunrise approaches its end ,, 04-07-2016

Despite the rise of digital calendars, keeping track of what’s happening in a day can be tough. There’s your to-do list, your Facebook events and meetings scheduled by email, let alone your personal calendar.
With the latest update to its Outlook apps for iOS and Android, Microsoft is gathering data from all those sources to give you a full picture of your day in one spot. The new “Calendar Apps” let users sync events and reminders to the Outlook calendar, integrating functions from Sunrise, which Microsoft acquired last year.
At launch, users can add events from Facebook and reminders from Evernote and Wunderlist (another Microsoft acquisition) to their calendars.
With the Facebook integration, invites from friends show up alongside other events so users can easily check availability. Users can even accept or decline straight from the Outlook app.
Evernote notes with reminders also show up on your calendar. Users can see the first few lines of a note from within the Outlook app to see what that reminder was about, and can tap it to be taken to the note for more info.
Wunderlist’s integration is the most straightforward, putting todos with due dates on the calendar. While you can easily jump to the app from Outlook, you can’t check it off without diving into Wunderlist. Since Microsoft owns the todo list app, the extra step to clear the item seems like a strange omission.
Calendar Apps come as Microsoft prepares to discontinue Sunrise, rolling its features into the main Outlook app.
Microsoft will expand the selection of Calendar Apps, with Skype and OneNote integrations in the works. The company is also looking for suggestions. Users can request other integrations by going to the Help & Support section of the Setting screen in the app to suggest a new Calendar App.


Shopping with smartphones: Apple’s iOS users outspent Android by 5X on Christmas ,, 12-27-2013

An IBM analytics report found that as a percentage of online sales on Christmas Day, people using iOS devices bought more items with their smartphones than those with Android by 5-to-1.
Based on transactions from about 800 U.S. retail websites, IBM’s report found that purchases made from iOS devices made up 23 percent of online shopping done on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Android accounted for just 4.6 percent.
iOS users also spent nearly twice as much, with an average of $93.94 per order, compared to $48.10 for Android.
Overall, IBM found that phone and tablet shopping made up 48 percent of all online traffic, up 28 percent from last year. Consumers also tended to use their smartphone more often than tablets to browse for products, but when it came time to actually make a purchase, people used tablets over smartphones (19.4 percent vs. 9.3 percent).
This data is interesting in part because Android has regularly led Apple in terms of market share over the past few years. IBM’s numbers, however, indicate that Apple users seem to be spending a whole lot more with their devices. IBM released a similar report during Black Friday, noting iOS users spending more than Android.
Related stories:


Tablet prediction: Microsoft to steal some thunder from Android and iPad by 2016 ,, 12-05-2012

The latest tablet predictions from the IDC research firm is out and here’s the lowdown: Android is gaining traction while Apple is not, Windows will steal future market share and tablets are more popular than ever.
IDC credits strong competition and more consumer buying options for a 2012 forecast of the worldwide tablet market to 122.3 million, which is up for its previous forecast of 117.1 million.
“Tablets continue to captivate consumers, and as the market shifts toward smaller, more mobile screen sizes and lower prices points, we expect demand to accelerate in the fourth quarter and beyond,” Tom Mainelli, IDC research director for tablets, said in a press release. “Android tablets are gaining traction in the market thanks to solid products from Google, Amazon, Samsung, and others. And Apple’s November iPad mini launch, along with its surprise refresh of the full-sized iPad, positions the company well for a strong holiday season.”
Interesting to note that IDC predicts Windows-based tablets to steal some thunder from iOS and Android, growing from 2.9 percent in 2012 all the way to 10.2 percent in 2016. However, that likely won’t be due to the Surface, which could see fewer than 1 million sales in its debut quarter.
The same doesn’t hold true for Windows on the mobile side. IDC has significantly reduced its long-term forecast for Microsoft’s Windows Phone and expects it to post 11.4 percent market share in 2016, in third place behind Android (63.8 percent) and iOS (19.1 percent).
While Apple is ready for a nice holiday season with the iPad and iPad mini, IDC expects its tablet share to slip from 56.3 percent in 2011 to 53.8 percent in 2012. On the flip-side, Android’s tablet share is predicted to increase from 39.8 percent in 2011 to 42.7 percent this year. That’s good news for Amazon’s Kindle Fire tablets, which are powered by Android and are apparently reaching new sales records.
“The breadth and depth of Android has taken full effect on the tablet market as it has for the smartphone space,” Ryan Reith, program manager for IDC’s Mobile Device Trackers, said in the release. “Android tablet shipments will certainly act as the catalyst for growth in the low-cost segment in emerging markets given the platform’s low barrier to entry on manufacturing.”
The IDC increased its 2013 tablet forecast number to 172.4 million units, up from 165.9 million units. It also upped its forecasted 2016 worldwide shipments to 282.7 million units, up from a previous prediction of 261.4 million units.
The popularity of tablets is hurting sales of eReaders. The research firms expects 2012 eReader shipments to end up at 19.9 million units, down from the 27.7 million units that shipped in 2011.
Previously on GeekWire: Microsoft’s Surface Pro: Yep, this feels like a tough sell


Android Wear smartwatches now work on iOS ,, 08-31-2015

Google's willingness to cross platforms and port all its apps to iOS devices seems to know no bounds -- and is a pleasant contrast to the format wars that traditionally dominate smartphones. After much speculation, Google announced that Android Wear smartwatches will now work with iOS devices. Previously, iPhone users who wanted a real smartwatch could only look to the Apple Watch or the Pebble. Now Android Wear smartwatches are free game, too.
Android Wear for iOS is rolling out today, August 31, to any iPhone 5, 5C, 5S, 6, or 6 Plus running iOS 8.2 or higher. Android Wear for iOS works only with the LG Watch Urbane at the moment, but future Android Wear watches like those from Huawei, Asus, and Motorola will all support iOS. It's unknown how many older Android Wear smartwatches will gain iOS support. Regardless, Google says all of the upcoming and highly anticipated Android Wear watches will work with iPhones from now on.
Just last week a posting on Amazon for the Huawei Watch hinted that iOS support was forthcoming, and now that's been confirmed.
As with many Google apps, Android Wear will undoubtedly work differently on iOS, depending on app permissions and the nature of Apple's mobile operating system, but most of the key features of Android Wear will work the same way on a smartwatch that's paired to an iPhone as a smartwatch that's paired with an Android phone. Google says that Google Now support will allow for the following Android Wear functions to work effortlessly:
Info at a glance: Notifications for phone calls, messages, and alerts from your favorite apps will all show up on your Android Wear watch, mirroring the notifications as they hit your iPhone.
Notifications for phone calls, messages, and alerts from your favorite apps will all show up on your Android Wear watch, mirroring the notifications as they hit your iPhone. Fitness tracking: You can still set fitness goals, and get daily and weekly views of your activity on your Android Wear smartwatch. It'll automatically track walking and running, as well as heart rate, so long as the watch in question has a heart rate monitor.
You can still set fitness goals, and get daily and weekly views of your activity on your Android Wear smartwatch. It'll automatically track walking and running, as well as heart rate, so long as the watch in question has a heart rate monitor. Google Now: Google Now will be as smart as ever on any Android Wear watch that's paired to an iPhone, so you'll get notified when to leave for appointments, how bad the traffic is, your flight status, and more. The classic "Ok Google" voice command will allow you to interact with the watch, ask questions, create to-do lists, and set reminders.
Only time will tell what limitations iOS puts on Android Wear, but based on Google's statements, it seems that it'll be a full-featured experience. Although it may sound counterintuitive for Google to allow Android Wear watches to work with iPhones (and vice versa), Google says it just wants to accommodate its varied user base.
In the closing of its blog post, Google quoted Dr. Seuss and added its own thoughts: "'Today you are You, that is truer than true. There is no one alive who is Youer than You.' We agree. So whoever You are, and whatever You like -- Android Wear lets you wear what you want."


Samsung Galaxy NX: Android Goes Mirrorless for Way Too Much Money [REVIEW] ,, 12-21-2013

Samsung Galaxy NX Review
Android was originally developed as a smartphone operating system. Since its humble version 1.5 "Cupcake" beginnings, Android has been modified for use in tablets, TV set-top boxes, micro-gaming consoles and more. In the last year, Samsung's been busy adapting Android for a different purpose: cameras.
For all the megapixels and low-light prowess of today's cameras, very few of them have Internet connectivity that rival the ease of use found on modern smartphones and tablets. The problem, it seems, is the user interface.
The Galaxy NX, as its name suggests, is essentially one of Samsung's Android-powered Galaxy smartphones grafted onto an interchangeable-lens camera body. If last year's Galaxy Camera was Samsung's freshman debut, then the Galaxy NX can be considered its sophomore release.
Almost All Screen
The very first thing you'll notice on the Galaxy NX is its gigantic screen. Forget the "large 3.0-inch screen" you've seen on every other camera, because none of those come remotely close to the sheer size of the 4.8-inch touchscreen on this Samsung camera.
To put it bluntly: the 1,280 x 720 resolution LCD absolutely dominates the camera. The large screen does come at a cost. There is just no room for directional pads, camera setting switches or all of the other buttons you would expect to find on a mirrorless camera. Also, the display doesn't flip out.
The capacitive touchscreen is as responsive as any Galaxy smartphone's, but quickly making adjustments to things such as ISO and exposure by tapping at tiny onscreen sliders and buttons is definitely a slower process than pressing physical buttons.
Worse, the Galaxy NX barely has enough room for your right thumb to firmly grip.
Shoots Like a Point-and-Shoot
Samsung, like Sony, might not have quite the historical legacy of other camera makers, but it sure does know how to pack a spec sheet. The Galaxy NX has a 20.3-megapixel APS-C sensor, a 1.6GHz Pega-Q Quad-core processor, 16GB of internal storage (expandable via microSD card), a DRMe IV Signal Image Processor, ISO 100-25600, 8 frames per second continuous shooting, 30 smart shooting modes, a built-in flash and runs Android 4.2.2 Jelly Bean (with the TouchWiz UI).
But, as many of us know, bullet points on a list don't mean much if the picture-taking experience is shoddy. While the Galaxy NX isn't the slowest, it isn't exactly a fast mirrorless camera either. For starters, booting up the camera from a completely powered off (not standby) mode takes over 20 seconds (this is Android we're loading up here). The camera's autofocus can be considered speedy; however, it fails to operate quickly when you're zoomed in with the 18-55mm lens and when you're not using the touchscreen to select a focus point.
Although the large touchscreen is clear as day, the same can't be said for the 0.46-inch electronic viewfinder (EVF), which has a terribly low 800 x 600 resolution and exhibits some noticeable lag when it detects your eye.
Throughout my two-week review period, I found myself using the Galaxy NX more like a point-and-shoot and less like a mirrorless camera with a built-in EVF. The lack of any real hardware buttons for changing camera settings, other than a wheel up top, also contributed to the Galaxy NX being held and used as a point-and-shoot.
The 4,360 milliamp-hour (mAh) battery is excellent and helps the camera last all day long, even with 4G LTE turned on. You should be able to get a solid 10-11 hours of on\/off usage with the camera on standby when not in use.
Better Pictures for Sharing
By now, you may be asking yourself why you would ever need a camera with Android when you can buy a high-end Android smartphone with a beefed-up camera such as the Galaxy S4 Zoom. That's a valid point, but the clear differentiator between the Galaxy NX and a smartphone such as the Galaxy S4 Zoom is going to be image quality.
It may be the case that most smartphones these days take "good enough" pictures for sharing to Facebook and Instagram, but none of them take 20.3-megapixel pictures that are comparable to ones from a mirrorless or entry-level DSLR with a decent lens.
The Galaxy NX produces clear pictures with accurate colors, good dynamic range and, in most scenarios, very little noise (at up to ISO 1600). Even low-light shots look good if you've got a steady grip or use a tripod. Taking panoramas is also really simple: you pan from left to right or right to left and the Galaxy NX automatically stitches together an elongated picture.
Samsung Galaxy NX Sample Images
To my eye, the Galaxy NX's pictures aren't nearly as crisp as other mirrorless cameras, such as the Olympus OM-D E-M1 or Sony NEX-7, but they're sharper than the ones from popular smartphones such as the Galaxy S4 or iPhone 5S.
If you can't see the difference between an iPhone picture and the Galaxy NX's higher resolution shots, you may want to get your eyes checked. It's definitely noticeable.
4G LTE and App-Charged
Aside from its use of Android, the Galaxy NX also has built-in 3G\/4G LTE. (Don't worry, the Galaxy NX is an "unlocked" device.) All you need to do is pop in a micro SIM card and you're ready to start uploading pictures to Facebook, Instagram or wherever you share your cat pics to — on the spot, wherever you are. No more waiting to upload them over Wi-Fi or transferring them to a computer and then sharing them online. Today's kids have it real easy.
Other than 4G LTE, the Galaxy NX has access to hundreds of good photo editing apps in the Google Play store. I can take a picture at the full 20.3-megapixel resolution, open up Snapseed, make corrections or add effects instantly, and then immediately share them with friends and family.
Having Internet access is also great for storage. Should the Galaxy NX's 16GB of internal storage and additional micro SD card not be enough for all of your photographic needs, you can always tap into the cloud for more room.
Heck, Samsung even makes it easy for owners by including 50GB of free Dropbox storage for two years with every Galaxy NX. As a person who uses Dropbox like crazy, I appreciate how the Galaxy NX can automatically upload all of my photos and videos to the cloud for backup over Wi-Fi or 4G LTE.
And in case your were wondering, yes, this camera allows you to play games, watch videos, browse the Internet and do just about everything else you can do on an Android smartphone, except make calls. For kicks, I played Temple Run and Angry Birds on the New York City subway just to see the reactions, and let's just say a lot of riders simply stared at me, shaking their heads at my silliness.
Surprise Voice Commands
One cool little feature I found on the Galaxy NX was the inclusion of voice commands. It doesn't understand natural language, like Siri or Google Now, but the list of voice commands are easy to remember and useful (when they work). And, knowing the limitations of voice recognition, I didn't expect much from the Galaxy NX.
When the feature is turned on, you can say "smile," "cheese," "capture" or "shoot" to take a picture. All of these worked. Similarly, recording a video is as simple as saying "record video." We're not sure why, but you can't say "stop recording" to stop the video. Saying "beauty face" will take a portrait and transform the person's face into one with flawless skin, and saying "timer" and "gallery" will initiate a 10-second timer and bring up the photo gallery, respectively.
At close range, most of the voice commands work, but step back to around five feet and the camera has a hard time picking up your voice.
Way Too Expensive
As far as convergence goes, the Galaxy NX feels like the natural path for cameras to take. Android not only allows the camera to have access to a wide array of apps, but it also lets you share your media wirelessly over cellular networks. In today's age of social connectivity, that kind of feature is really convenient and indispensable.
The only real kicker is the Galaxy NX's crazy price: $1,600 for the body-only and $1,700 for the body and a 18-55mm lens. That's a big chunk of money for Android and wireless connectivity when you can purchase other mirrorless cameras for much less, tether one to a smartphone and get pretty much the same features (albeit with a little more work).
The Lowdown
What's Good:
Beautiful 4.8-inch HD touchscreen
Convenient 4G LTE Internet connectivity
Superb battery life
What's Bad:
Disappointing low-res electronic viewfinder
Super slow boot-up
Next to no physical buttons
Bottom Line: Samsung's Galaxy NX is an ambitious camera that attempts to bring cameras into the modern gadget world with a large touchscreen and picture uploads over 3G\/4G LTE, but its incredibly high price will scare off most potential buyers.


Apple takes smartphone market share from Android thanks to strong iPhone sales ,, 02-24-2015

Apple’s strong sales of iPhones during the fourth quarter of 2014 gave the company a greater piece of the worldwide smartphone market, according to new figures released today by IDC. The Cupertino-based company sold 74.5 million iPhones during the quarter, which translates into 19.7 percent of the worldwide smartphone market. That’s up from 17.5 percent during the same period a year ago.
Android sales totaled 289.1 million worldwide, up 26.6 percent from the same period a year ago. But Google’s market share shrank by 1.6 percentage points to 76.6 percent of the total smartphone market. Windows Phone sales grew slightly from 8.8 million units in the fourth quarter of 2013 to 10.7 million units during the same period in 2014, but Microsoft’s overall share shrank from 3 percent of the market to 2.8 percent of the market.
The worldwide smartphone market is increasingly looking like a two-horse race between Apple and Google, with little room for other platform operators. Smartphones running iOS or Android made up 96.3 percent of the total smartphone market during the full year 2014. Microsoft is the closest competitor to the two titans with only 2.7 percent of the full year market share.
As usual, BlackBerry is the big loser in all of this, with just 0.4 percent of the worldwide smartphone market in the full year 2014. The company’s annual sales dropped almost 70 percent over 2013 to just 5.8 million units, less than 17 percent of Microsoft’s total sales for the year.


Apple plans Oct. 4th unveiling of the iPhone 5 even as more Americans buy Android devices ,, 09-27-2011

Apple today pretty much confirmed that it plans to announce the iPhone 5 at a press event on October 4th, with a full release coming shortly thereafter. But as iOS fanatics get ready for the latest version of the smartphone, here are some interesting numbers to contemplate.
New research from Nielsen indicates that 56 percent of Americans who purchased a smartphone in the past three months chose an Android. That compares to 28 percent who purchased an iPhone and nine percent who chose BlackBerry. (I assume Windows Phone showed up in the “other” category).
Now, Apple fans will be quick to point out that many possible iPhone buyers have held off purchase decisions in recent months in anticipation of the new iPhone 5. And the researchers at Nielsen also recognize this trend. They write:
Apple iOS remains popular in second place with 28 percent of all smartphone users, and the same percentage among those who recently got a new device. But those figures could change quickly in the months to come. Every time Apple launches a new iPhone or makes it available on a new wireless carrier, there is an increase in their sales.
Even so, Android has quickly emerged as a sizable rival to iOS and that could change the purchasing decisions as customers look to buy new smartphones this winter. (In the past, there just weren’t many comparable rivals to Apple’s device).
As the chart above shows, 43 percent of all smartphone owners now have an Android device. That compares to 28 percent who own an iPhone.
Will the iPhone 5 help change those numbers? Here’s a closer look at smartphone purchasing habits.


Amazon’s new Appstore gets first crack at PopCap’s new Android games ,, 05-16-2011

PopCap Games this morning announced an agreement that gives Amazon.com a limited-time exclusive deal for the new Android versions of two favorite titles from the Seattle game company.
It’s a sign of Amazon’s growing influence in the market for apps on Google’s Android operating system, in competition with Google’s own Android Market. The deal with PopCap comes amid reports that the online retailer is developing its own Android tablet device for possible release later this year.
PopCap’s game Chuzzle will be available exclusively on the Amazon Android Appstore for two weeks starting on Tuesday, followed by another two-week exclusive offer for Plants vs. Zombies. Both games will be free on their first day in the store, and $2.99 after that.
In a news release announcing the deal, PopCap senior director Giordano Bruno Contestabile called the relationship with Amazon “pivotal to PopCap’s overall strategy in bringing a growing roster of mobile titles to the ever-widening base of smartphone users.”
No word yet on when other PopCap games will be coming to Android.


After burning Microsoft, Google leaves Android vulnerability unpatched ,, 01-13-2015

Google threw Microsoft under the bus this weekend by disclosing a security flaw in Windows that the Redmond company wasn’t going to patch until today, after it passed the Mountain View-based company’s self imposed 90-day waiting period for disclosing such bugs. Microsoft blasted back at Google, saying that its rivals should have waited for the company’s Patch Tuesday release before disclosing the bug.
As it turns out, Google is in its own security pickle. Security researcher Tod Beardsley found a bug in Android WebView 4.3 – the part of Android that’s used to display web pages on devices running version 4.3 of Google’s mobile operating system. After disclosing it to Google, he was told that the company won’t be developing patches for WebView bugs that only affect versions of Android below 4.4, also known as “KitKat.”
That’s a problem, since the vast majority of Android devices are running an older version of the company’s OS, which could leave them vulnerable to any flaws that get found in the future. It’s possible for Android OEMs to create their own patches for this and other exploits, since Android is open source. And Google told Beardsley that it will consider patches submitted to the Android Open Source Project, or AOSP.
This policy is a move by Google that may force manufacturers to put old devices on newer versions of Android. Even when the company releases a software update, it first has to be implemented by manufacturers on their devices, and approved by carriers for use on their network. In practice, that means it can take a while before phones get updated to major new releases.
By refusing to issue security patches for older versions, the company puts a lot of users at risk – almost 1 billion, according to some estimates – but could force manufacturers to take the burden of patching security holes or updating their phones in order to maintain user security.


Guardian and Observer tablet edition now available on Android ,, 12-19-2013

Our successful Guardian and Observer tablet edition is now available to Android tablet users, including those on Kindle Fire. The edition, which optimises content from the Guardian and Observer newspapers for tablets, launched on iPad in October 2011 and now has over 23,000 subscribers.
The Android version includes the following content and functionality:
new editions every day of the week, including all content from the main sections of the Guardian and Observer newspapers
on Saturday, Weekend magazine, the Guide and the Sport, cultural Review, Travel and Family sections are all included along with the main section of the paper
on Sunday, the Observer's news sections, Sport, New Review and Magazine all appear weekly, with Observer Food and Tech Monthly magazines included once each month
quick and cryptic crosswords every day of the week, including Saturday's Prize puzzle and the Everyman and Speedy crosswords on Sunday
all editions from the last month available in the archive
all article and picture content can be read offline
stunning photojournalism and full screen cartoons
in-article image galleries and interactive graphics
video embedded in articles viewable when online
share stories via Facebook, Twitter, Instapaper, Google+ and email
swipe to navigate between sections or stories
A two-week free trial of the Guardian and Observer tablet edition is available from Google Play and Amazon now. After the free trial, the app is priced at £11.99 per month for seven day access, £9.99 per month for six day (Monday to Saturday) and £6.99 per month for Sunday (Observer only). It is also included in our print + digital bundles, available from our subscriptions site.
Guardian quick crossword in the tablet edition
We are also delighted to announce that the iPad version of the tablet edition now contains quick and cryptic crosswords every day, including the Prize crossword on Saturday and the Observer speedy and Everyman puzzles on Sunday. The crosswords are fully interactive, available on and offline, and have check and cheat functionality (except for Saturday’s Prize puzzle!).
Observer Food Monthly in the tablet edition
We also now include the Observer Food Monthly magazine in the tablet edition, which is a fantastic addition to Sunday’s Observer. The supplement contains original recipes from Nigel Slater and other top chefs, features and regular food and wine columns and appears one Sunday each month.
Check out the 8th December Christmas special to see the first tablet edition of OFM and look out for the next one on 19th January.
If you have any thoughts or questions about the tablet edition, please leave a comment below or email userhelp@theguardian.com.


GOP 2016 hopeful Scott Walker offers healthcare plan ,, 08-18-2015

JOSHUA LOTT\/REUTERS Republican presidential candidate and Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker (R) greets fair goers at the Iowa State Fair in Des Moines on Monday.
Republican presidential candidate Scott Walker's plan for replacing President Barack Obama's health care law would extend refundable tax credits to help pay for private health insurance based on age instead of income, restructure Medicaid and allow people to shop for insurance across state lines.
The Wisconsin governor provided details of his proposal to The Associated Press in advance of a Tuesday speech in suburban Minneapolis where he was to outline his first major policy initiative of the presidential campaign.
Walker's plan does not include cost figures or an estimate of the number of people who would be covered, making it nearly impossible to compare with current law. For the period from April to June of this year, 11.4 percent of U.S. adults were uninsured, which translates to about 16 million people gaining coverage since the rollout of Obama's health care law in 2013.
Walker's campaign said the plan would be paid for by eliminating $1 trillion in taxes that are levied under the current law and by making other changes to Medicaid and how health insurance is taxed.
The Supreme Court in June upheld a key portion of the Affordable Care Act allowing for federal subsidies to defray the cost of coverage, a major defeat for opponents of the law.
Walker and other Republican candidates have insisted they would repeal the law, starting on the first day of a GOP presidency. The biggest hurdle Walker, and any opponent of the law, faces is getting it repealed. That would take 60 votes in the Senate, and Walker's plan does not address how he would undo the law in any other way.
Walker, in excerpts of his speech released by his campaign, blamed fellow Republicans with not doing enough to repeal the law.
``Republican leaders in Washington told us during the campaign last year that we needed a Republican Senate to repeal Obamacare,'' Walker said in the prepared remarks. ``Well, Republicans have been in charge of both houses of Congress since January and there still isn't a bill on the president's desk to repeal Obamacare.''
Topher Spiro, vice president for health policy at the Center for American Progress, a think tank often aligned with the White House, said Walker's plan would be a step backward.
``The math only adds up if he's slashing Medicaid and increasing taxes on middle-class people with employer plans,'' Spiro said.
While the Walker plan would repeal the Affordable Care Act, it appears to use some similar kinds of tools to promote coverage. For example, there would be no requirement for individuals to carry health insurance or face fines, as there is currently. But, in order to be guaranteed affordable coverage without regard to pre-existing medical problems, individuals would have to ``maintain continuous, creditable coverage.''
Walker would also change one of the most popular parts of the current law requiring insurance companies to allow people up to age 26 to stay on their parents' plan. Under Walker's proposal, states would decide whether to allow it.
There's merit to Walker staking out his position on the issue, even though he doesn't explain how the law would be repealed, said economist Douglas Holtz-Eakin, president of the American Action Forum, a center-right think tank.
``There's a lot of this that is fairly standard conservative health policy reform,'' Holtz-Eakin said. ``The basic plan looks familiar.''
Walker, similar to current law, would also provide tax credits to help with the cost of coverage for people whose employers don't offer insurance. But unlike current law, those credits of between $900 and $3,000 would be based on age and not be keyed to a person's income. So they may not help low- to moderate-income people as much as the existing tax breaks do.
Walker's plan calls for eliminating unspecified regulations in the current law, a move that Walker claims would lower premiums by 25 percent.
Other elements of the plan would include extending a $1,000 refundable tax credit for anyone who signs up for a health savings account, allowing people to shop for health insurance across state lines, reorganizing Medicaid into smaller programs, and giving states more regulatory authority.
He would also allow for new health insurance purchasing agreements and deregulate the long-term care insurance market.
The reality of outright repealing the law as Walker wants to do is stark: Doing away with it completely would kick 19 million people off insurance in the first year, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
Walker isn't the first Republican to put forward a detailed plan for replacing Obama's law. Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal released his plan last year and Florida Sen. Marco Rubio outlined his approach in an opinion piece published Monday. And while alternatives have been introduced in Congress, none has gotten traction as Republicans have yet to coalesce around any particular idea.
ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH THE VIDEO HERE.


U.S. Healthcare Ranked Dead Last Compared To 10 Other Countries ,, 06-16-2014

Earlier this year, Cadillac ran a controversial TV ad that first aired during the opening ceremonies of the 2014 Winter Olympics. It was called “Poolside” and featured actor Neal McDonough extolling America’s work ethic over other countries — specifically France.
Turns out that many of those “other countries” (including France) score better than the U.S. in at least one key metric not included in Cadillac’s TV spot — healthcare. At least that’s according to The Commonwealth Fund in their latest report “Mirror, Mirror On The Wall — 2014 Update” (pdf here).
For this year’s survey on overall health care, The Commonwealth Fund ranked the U.S. dead last .
1. United Kingdom
2. Switzerland
3. Sweden
4. Australia
5. Germany & Netherlands (tied)
7. New Zealand & Norway (tied)
9. France
10. Canada
11. United States
It’s fairly well accepted that the U.S. is the most expensive healthcare system in the world, but many continue to falsely assume that we pay more for healthcare because we get better health (or better health outcomes). The evidence, however, clearly doesn’t support that view.
The report itself is fairly short (32 pages), but included prior surveys and national health system scorecards as well as data from the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The report also included a list of major findings (abbreviated here):
Quality: The indicators of quality were grouped into four categories: effective care, safe care, coordinated care, and patient-centered care. Compared with the other 10 countries, the U.S. fares best on provision and receipt of preventive and patient-centered care.
Access: Not surprisingly — given the absence of universal coverage — people in the U.S. go without needed health care because of cost more often than people do in the other countries.
Efficiency: On indicators of efficiency, the U.S. ranks last among the 11 countries, with the U.K. and Sweden ranking first and second, respectively. The U.S. has poor performance on measures of national health expenditures and administrative costs as well as on measures of administrative hassles, avoidable emergency room use, and duplicative medical testing.
Equity: The U.S. ranks a clear last on measures of equity. Americans with below-average incomes were much more likely than their counterparts in other countries to report not visiting a physician when sick; not getting a recommended test, treatment, or follow-up care; or not filling a prescription or skipping doses when needed because of costs. On each of these indicators, one-third or more lower-income adults in the U.S. said they went without needed care because of costs in the past year.
Healthy lives: The U.S. ranks last overall with poor scores on all three indicators of healthy lives — mortality amenable to medical care, infant mortality, and healthy life expectancy at age 60. Overall, France, Sweden, and Switzerland rank highest on healthy lives.
Perhaps the biggest single takeaway was this one:
The most notable way the U.S. differs from other industrialized countries is the absence of universal health insurance coverage. Other nations ensure the accessibility of care through universal health systems and through better ties between patients and the physician practices that serve as their medical homes. The Commonwealth Fund “Mirror, Mirror On The Wall — 2014 Update”
Unfortunately, many still equate “universal healthcare” with “Government run” or “single payer” healthcare. It isn’t (Universal Coverage Is Not “Single Payer” Healthcare — here).
All of which makes Cadillac’s advertising chutzpah even more brazen. After all, it was just seven short months ago that the Government “bailout” of GM officially ended. One of the more commonly cited reasons for the dire financial predicament of the auto industry was always — yup — ballooning healthcare costs. Just as Starbucks spends more on healthcare benefits than coffee beans (here) — GM (at least in 2005) spent more on healthcare benefits than steel (here).
The U.S. excels in many areas, but clearly population health (and all its components) isn’t one of them. N’est-ce pas?


Tuesday Sector Leaders: Utilities, Healthcare ,, 03-17-2015

The best performing sector as of midday Tuesday is the Utilities sector, not showing much of a loss. Within the sector, AES Corp. (NYSE: AES) and NRG Energy Inc (NYSE: NRG) are two large stocks leading the way, showing a gain of 1.2% and 1.1%, respectively. Among utilities ETFs, one ETF following the sector is the Utilities Select Sector SPDR ETF (AMEX: XLU), which is down 0.1% on the day, and down 6.41% year-to-date. AES Corp., meanwhile, is down 11.04% year-to-date, and NRG Energy Inc, is down 10.24% year-to-date. Combined, AES and NRG make up approximately 3.0% of the underlying holdings of XLU.
The next best performing sector is the Healthcare sector, losing just 0.2%. Among large Healthcare stocks, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASD: REGN) and Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (NASD: ALXN) are the most notable, showing a gain of 3.3% and 1.7%, respectively. One ETF closely tracking Healthcare stocks is the Health Care Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLV), which is down 0.4% in midday trading, and up 6.90% on a year-to-date basis. Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., meanwhile, is up 13.73% year-to-date, and Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc., is down 1.90% year-to-date. Combined, REGN and ALXN make up approximately 2.5% of the underlying holdings of XLV.
Click here to find out 25 Dividend Giants Widely Held By ETFs »
Comparing these stocks and ETFs on a trailing twelve month basis, below is a relative stock price performance chart, with each of the symbols shown in a different color as labeled in the legend at the bottom:
Here’s a snapshot of how the S&P 500 components within the various sectors are faring in afternoon trading on Tuesday. As you can see, none of the sectors are up on the day, while eight sectors are down.


KenSci raises $22M to help healthcare companies predict when patients will get sick and lower costs ,, 02-07-2019

KenSci has raised an additional $22 million to fuel growth of its machine learning and AI-powered technology that helps health systems predict when patients will get sick and lower healthcare costs.
Polaris Partners led the Series B round, which included participation from existing investors such as Ignition Partners, Osage University Partners, and Mindset Ventures. UL Ventures also joined the round as a strategic investor. Total funding to date is $30 million.
Founded in 2015 by two childhood friends — Samir Manjure, a longtime former Microsoft exec, and University of Washington-Tacoma professor patient data from a number of existing sources, including data collected from patient devices, electronic medical records, and public records. The platform then assembles the data so its machine learning systems can use it to predict clinical, operational and financial risks.
The company’s customers include NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde, and Health Promotion Board Singapore.
“In the last two years, we’ve singularly invested ourselves in building a platform that simplifies the way health systems look at their data and gain actionable, predictive insights to save lives and costs,” Manjure said in a statement. “With this round of funding, we’re excited to take these capabilities to a global stage with partners who complement our capabilities and are committed to helping us drive this transformation across the care continuum.”
Healthcare spending in the U.S. increased 3.9 percent in 2017 to $3.5 trillion, according to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
KenSci appeared on GeekWire’s Elevator Pitch show last year, pitching its business to a group of judges. The company, which employs more than 50 people and has additional offices in Singapore and Hyderabad, was also nominated for the Innovation of the Year category at the 2018 GeekWire Awards.
“If you can predict, then you can potentially prevent — and not only that, but you can make better outcomes happen and reduce cost,” Manjure said in his pitch, which you can watch below.


Startup Spotlight: CareCap lets healthcare providers offer flexible payment plans to patients ,, 12-10-2015

In his years helping companies get out of financial distress, Nevil Hermer observed a trend. Healthcare deductibles were increasing and employees in need of care were becoming more and more squeezed for money.
“Given my background in HR, which has included managing healthcare insurance for every business I’ve been with, I saw the opportunity quickly,” he said. “Understanding the reasons behind the increasing deductibles and recognizing that the patient-responsible portion for healthcare was going to continue to grow, we figured there was an opportunity to build CareCap.”
CareCap’s platform lets businesses and healthcare providers design payment plans for customers and patients that can’t afford the cost upfront. The startup leverages relationships between patients and providers to create plans that banks might not offer. CareCap tries to attract businesses by touting the customer loyalty and retention that comes from offering payment options.
We caught up with Hermer for this Startup Spotlight, a regular GeekWire feature.
Explain what you do so our parents can understand it: “When you visit the doctor and he tells you your deductible and co-pay requires that you pay him $1,000, ask him if he offers CareCap. With CareCap, he can let you pay in affordable monthly payments that you set to meet your budget.”
Inspiration hit us when: “We realized that the merchant is the answer to payment assistance much as banks were some years back and credit cards were more recently — until they tightened their underwriting criteria. Merchants — specifically service providers — will build on the relationships they have with their customers and help them afford the services they need. They know them and our experience is that those merchants who offer payment plans to their customers have seen an increase in revenue and a reduction in bad debt.”
VC, Angel or Bootstrap: “We wanted to prove the model before we asked for funding from friends and family – we respect them too much not to test as much as we could first. So, we bootstrapped initially. We currently use angels, but the demand for our solution is so great, institutional capital is needed to scale the company.”
Our ‘secret sauce’ is: “The fact that while we help people afford the care they need, what we are really doing is building loyalty. Patients really appreciate that the doctor is helping them get the treatment they need and they not only come back, but they also tell their friends and family. ‘Care Matters!'”
The smartest move we’ve made so far: “Hiring smart, committed, passionate people who care about the people they are serving: our customers.”
The biggest mistake we’ve made so far: “Waiting too long to bring on our PR consultant. We have a great story, we needed to get this out sooner.”
Would you rather have Gates, Zuckerberg or Bezos in your corner: “These are all smart and obviously very successful people. We’d be happy to have any one of them – or all three! Mr. Bezos does what we do — connecting merchants with consumers — and he would get the value proposition very quickly.”
Our favorite team-building activity is: “Ringing the bell to celebrate a win. This generates positive energy and makes us all want to do more.”
The biggest thing we look for when hiring is: “Cultural fit. Of course we need driven, intelligent and caring people, but they need to want to see the whole team succeed. Team is important; so is respect. We look for team members who will contribute to the current positive working environment.”
What’s the one piece of advice you’d give to other entrepreneurs just starting out: “Three things we all learn from experience: Change happens. It will take twice as long as your best estimate. You will need more money than you think.”


Ex-Dendreon CEO starts healthcare investment fund Alpine BioVentures ,, 09-03-2013

Former Dendreon CEO Mitch Gold has partnered with biotechnology stock researcher David Miller to create a new Seattle-based investment firm called Alpine BioVentures.
The fund, which was started earlier this year, plans to invest in both public and private companies which are developing “significant innovations in healthcare technology which meaningfully improve the lives of patients.”
Gold left the CEO post at Dendreon in February 2012, resigning after nine years on the job. That followed a series of layoffs and disappointments around the company’s prostate cancer drug, Provenge. Seattle-based Dendreon now has a market value of $457 million, trading at $2.89. In 2010, the stock topped $50 per share.
Alpine notes on its Web site.
We believe healthcare companies offer extraordinary risk\/reward characteristics. Our intensive original research capabilities have proven adept at uncovering unseen and undervalued opportunities in the healthcare space. Our philosophy combines a fundamental scientific review to assess the unmet medical need, a belief in the management team, and patience to endure the unique rhythms of the biotechnology sector.
Luke Timmerman at Xconomy has more details on the fund, noting that it is being formed during an uptick in the healthcare industry with more than 31 IPOs so far this year in the sector. “You’re seeing a lot of interesting developments in cancer and rare diseases, and I want to be a part of it,” Gold told Xconomy. The size of the fund is not being disclosed, and a search of public records related to the fund turned up no results.
Gold is joined at the firm by David Miller, the former CEO and publisher of Biotech Stock Research.


Candid Obama admits: healthcare website glitches are a gift to critics ,, 10-21-2013

For a healthcare initiative partly designed to reassure sceptical consumers they won't have to put up with British-style rationing, the appearance of a virtual “waiting room” on a creaky government website that even the president hates is unfortunate, to say the least.
But the technical snags that overshadowed the launch of Obama's insurance exchanges this month are far from just public relations setbacks. If a new “surge” of techies cannot fix them quickly, his wider goal of spreading affordable health insurance to the 15% of Americans without risks being set back years.
The problem is that the website glitches, though minor in themselves, undermine the system of carrots and sticks at the heart of the Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare.
On the one hand, the frustrations of logging on and registering personal details send an unconvincing signal to the 15 million uninsured that Obama hopes to tempt into the insurance market for the first time.
Aggregating the purchasing power of the medically-dispossessed is a key feature of the market-based Affordable Care Act. Together with measures to prevent insurers discriminating against those with pre-existing medical conditions, an influx of healthy new customers was meant to keep costs lower for everyone. So far, it appears the numbers registering are too low for the administration to dare release them.
Only three weeks into a six-month open enrolment process, there is time to fix this. Yet at the same time, the “stick” aimed at forcing younger, healthier customers to sign up – known as the individual mandate – could also be undermined if shirkers try to avoid tax penalties by claiming they were prevented, or even just put off, by the website glitches.
Lest anyone think this sounds like a lame excuse, White House press secretary Jay Carney was forced to concede on Monday that the mandate currently exempts anyone who can point to “other factors” preventing them from accessing the insurance in their state.
So far, the administration is reluctant to officially extend the 15 February deadline for complying with the individual mandate, but if the website problems continue for much longer, anyone fined for failing to sign up might have a plausible case in law, according to Carney.
Instead, the White House is pinning its hopes on a swift and successful fix of the bugs that plagued the first three weeks of the exchanges.
If this were easy, it would be fixed by now, and officials are at pains to point out the complexity of a dynamic, transactional site designed to function in 30 different states.
“The idea that setting up a website is simple is something that would be challenged in Silicon Valley,” said Carney.
And though few doubt the site will be running smoothly soon, the political fallout may just be only beginning.
Already, conservative opponents are using the debacle to question not just Obamacare, but the state's wider ability to intervene effectively in any sensitive personal arena.
“As we cringe at what’s going on in Washington today, particularly with Obamacare, it should remind us that every time Washington tries to control another part of our lives, it creates division, and diminishes the love that Americans have for our country,” said Jim DeMint, president of the right-wing Heritage Foundation on Monday.
“They think that if everyone is forced to do the same thing and believe the same things that there will be more equality and unity,” he said. “But when people have many different values and beliefs, if they are forced to endure, pay for, or participate in activities that violate their conscience, this creates disharmony and division, even hate.”
The political own goal scored by Republicans when they forced a government shutdown by attempting to repeal Obamacare is fast making way for a similar Democratic blunder that has senior party figures openly gnashing their teeth in frustration.
“What has happened is unacceptable,” said House minority leader Nancy Pelosi on Sunday. “This has to be fixed.”
Meanwhile, while Obama should have been revelling in his moment of triumph over Republicans, he is forced to counter comparisons with New Coke as the worst product launch in history.
“The product is good; the health insurance that’s being provided is good. It’s high quality and it’s affordable,” insisted the president on Monday.
“And I think it’s fair to say that nobody is more frustrated by that than I am – precisely because the product is good, I want the cash registers to work. I want the checkout lines to be smooth. So I want people to be able to get this great product. And there’s no excuse for the problems.”
If this was a corporate product launch of similar importance, one imagines the share price would be tanking.


Chuck Schumer risks Obama's wrath by doubting focus on healthcare ,, 01-24-2014

Chuck Schumer, the third-ranking Democrat in the Senate, has questioned whether his party was right to focus on introducing a new healthcare law, saying that Barack Obama’s signature legislative achievement will have struck many Americans as “beside the point”.
In remarks that risk the wrath of the White House, which is battling to salvage the reputation of the Affordable Care Act, Schumer said healthcare reforms were not a priority for most Americans, and the party would have been better off focusing on economic inequality.
He said that in 2009 and 2010, after using its majority in both houses to tackle the financial crisis, Democrats “turned our attention towards healthcare reform instead of the growing problem of income inequality”.
“It was a worthy goal but it wasn’t at the top of most Americans’ to-do lists,” he said. “It’s not that they were against reforming our healthcare system, but for the 90% who had employer-sponsored healthcare or government healthcare - Medicare or Medicaid - it seemed beside the point."
Schumer added that voters had other worries. “Their income and their lives were declining. Healthcare didn’t address most of their immediate issues; they weren’t focused on it because they weren’t unhappy with the healthcare they had.”
The remarks were made on Thursday at the Center for American Progress, a liberal thinktank, during a speech that was ostensibly about finding strategies to outmanoeuvre the Tea Party, which he said had a stranglehold over politics in Washington.
His decision to question the focus on Obama’s flagship healthcare reforms could anger the president. It comes after Schumer repeatedly and publicly undermined the administration’s interim nuclear agreement with Iran, which he rubbished as soon as it was forged in November.
The senior senator from New York has been behind bipartisan plans to ratchet up sanctions against Iran, which have infuriated the White House, which believes they are at risk of sabotaging a potentially historic breakthrough with Tehran.
Schumer took only two questions after his speech, saying he had a flight to catch. Asked if he was saying Democrats had been mistaken to focus on the healthcare law, known as Obamacare, he replied: “My criticism was not in doing it [passing the Affordable Care Act] but in ... ignoring the other issues, which are more important to the average American.”
He said Democrats should now settle on a progressive slate of issues in the runup to November’s midterm elections.
“The important thing is that they be simple and easily explained, that they show almost intuitively the need for government and the contrast between the Tea Party\/Republican thinking and ours, that they be talked about by Democrats repeatedly,” he said.
Schumer said the Senate should hold votes that would raise the minimum wage, make college more affordable, invest in infrastructure infrastructure, give equal pay to women and prevent jobs from being lost to China.
Legislation regarding all of those issues are is unlikely to gain much, if any, traction in the Republican-dominated House of Representatives. However, Schumer said that ensuring such bills are voted on “several times between now and November” could pay dividends for Democrats in the elections.
He did not dwell for long on why those issues should matter, or their prospects for becoming law. Instead, the focus of Schumer's speech was on finding ways to combat the Tea Party movement, which he said was divided between Washington-based donors and grassroots activists.
“The fundamental weakness in the Tea Party machine is the stark difference between what the leaders of the Tea Party elite, plutocrats like the Koch brothers, want and what the average grassroots Tea Party follower wants,” he said.
The Koch brothers are deeply conservative donors who bankroll rightwing groups that seek to influence the Republican party. Schumer said well-funded advocacy groups had the hijacked the Tea Party, which began a grassroots-led movement.
“The best way to deal with the Tea Party’s obsessive anti-government mania is to confront it directly, by showing the people the need for government to help them out of their morass,” he added.
“Let’s remind people that the reason they’re frustrated with Washington and government is not that government is doing too much, but that it is gridlocked and not doing enough for them.”
The senator also said there should be a discussion about reform of electoral rules for primary contests, which he said gave disproportionate voice to the radical wings of the parties, particularly Republicans.


Obama appeals for budget progress but Republicans keep up healthcare attack ,, 11-02-2013

President Barack Obama on Saturday used his weekly address to appeal for progress in Congressional budget talks, rather than to discuss the ongoing controversy over the implementation of his signature healthcare reform, known as Obamacare.
In the Republican response to the president's address, Senator Dan Coates of Indiana concentrated on the healthcare issue, criticising the performance of the central Obamacare website, healthcare.gov, and insurance cancellation notices. Coates said the healthcare law could not be fixed and Americans should start over.
Later in the day, in another embarrassing development for the administration, it was announced that the healthcare.gov website would be down for "extended maintenance" between 9pm ET on Saturday and 9am ET on Sunday.
Seeking to repair the damage done to their standing in public polls by last month's 16-day government shutdown and subsequent infighting within their party, senior Republicans have focused fire on Obamacare as the reform has endured a troubled rollout. On Friday, the administration was forced to answer reports that only six people had managed to enrol for healthcare through the federal website on its first day of operation, and that relatively few people had been able to successfully enrol since.
In his address, Obama referred obliguely to the battle over the Affordable Care Act, which was behind the shutdown and the concurrent flirtation with failing to raise the US debt ceiling, when he said politicians in Washington needed to end "what has done more than anything else to undermine our economy over the past few years … the constant cycle of manufactured crises and self-inflicted wounds". He went on to decry the "obsession with cutting just for the sake of cutting", although he did not name the Republicans in connection with it.
Representative Paul Ryan, the Republican chair of the House budget committee, and Senator Patty Murray, the Democratic chair of its Senate equivalent, are engaged in a conference aimed at producing a budget acceptable to both sides of the political divide. They have until 13 December to produce a budget that would need to pass Congress by mid-January in order to avoid another government shutdown in the fiscal year which runs to September 2014.
On Wednesday, the Republican Senator Rob Portman gave voice to general expectations in Washington when he told Ryan and Murray's committee, which is made up of 29 members of the House and Senate: "I don't think we're going to do a grand bargain here. I'd like to – I think a lot of us would. But we can do something for the American people. We can call it a good bargain."
In his address on Saturday, Obama outlined his hopes for the budget conference. He said: "We can keep wasteful corporate tax giveaways that working folks don't get – or we could close those loopholes and use that money to pay for things that actually create jobs. We can keep harmful cuts to education programmes – or we could give more kids a head start, hire more teachers in math and science, and help more kids afford a college education.
"We can keep doling out corporate welfare to big oil companies – or we could keep investing in the renewable energy that creates jobs and lowers our carbon pollution."
Citing his "top priority as president", which he defined as "growing our economy, creating good jobs [and] strengthening security and opportunity for the middle class", Obama took a slightly unusual line when he said: "I know that what you often hear out of Washington can sound like Charlie Brown's teacher – a jumble of unfocused noise that's out of touch with the things you care about.
"So today, I want to cut through that noise and talk plainly about what we should do right now to keep growing this economy and creating new jobs."
The president added: "Here's the bottom line. Congress should pass a budget that cuts things we don't need, and closes wasteful tax loopholes that don't help create jobs, so that we can free up resources for the things that actually do create jobs and growth. So the question isn't between growth and fiscal responsibility. We need both."


Freelancers are in line for a healthcare upgrade. But will they sign up? ,, 10-01-2014

Here’s a question you don’t expect to see when you’re filling out a medical form: “Do you have an accountant?”
It is one you will find, however, at the Freelancers Union’s Brooklyn primary care centre. It’s not like most doctors’ offices. It has the spare, blonde-wood appeal of an Ikea catalogue. There are couches you can sink into, rather than hard chairs you perch on. Instead of magazines, four glossy iPads invite clients to browse the internet, over free Wi-Fi. A yoga room beckons with sea-foam-green yoga mats and tiny handweights in baby pink and baby blue – perfect for meditating or stretching even with the street noise outside.
Here’s the catch: it’s only for freelancers.
The Freelancers Union, a trade group for the members of the gig economy, has just signed a partnership with Empire BlueCross BlueShield to provide affordable health insurance to its 130,000 members in New York. The plan’s new services include easier paperwork and access to its serene primary care centres, which don’t charge co-pays. The union will also oversee all billing and enrolment and provide advocacy and checkups that prescribe a tax-prep class or tai chi and yoga to reduce stress from finances.
A Freelancers Union ad emphasises healthcare as a unifying force.
The big selling point, however, is lower premiums. The Freelancers Union already had an insurance plan in place, but due to the Affordable Care Act, which restricts insurers from limiting membership to certain groups, the plan’s premiums would be 14% higher than the Empire deal.
Under the new deal between the union and Empire, seven out of nine of the available plans will see a reduction in premiums, ranging from 1% to 19% in monthly costs. The premiums for the plan will range from $198 a month for the most basic plan to $658 a month for the platinum plan. Members of the union will be on the Empire plan as of January 2015.
The new Empire deal is not just a health plan; it’s also a membership drive of sorts. There are 53 million freelancers in the US, only 250,000 of whom are Freelancers Union members. By 2020, this “independent” workforce is expected to be as much as 70 million people.
“These jobs are what I call ‘permorary’,” Phil Press, executive vice-president at Temporary Alternatives, told the Guardian earlier this year, using a variation on the often-derisive “permalancer” moniker.
“People think that temping is a quick fix, but it’s not,” he said. “Not any more.”
The rise of the part-time workers is in fact an economic fall for many people. Temp workers can stay at assignments for months, even a year. The firms, which are protected from having to pay unemployment, taxes or benefits, prefer this kind of a workforce because it requires low or no benefits and little commitment.
The Freelancers Union has gone the activist route to draw new members, calling its collective power “a quiet revolution”.
“I believe that isolated individuals can’t go it alone. Our democracy always works best when you have a civic infrastructure,” says Sara Horowitz, the union’s founder and executive director.
Healthcare, the thinking goes, may bring freelancers together in a way that other issues can’t. The union’s perks, like the free paperwork, are designed to keep members in the fold and attract new freelancers to sign up as members.
“Because we work with freelancers, we can see what the future is going to be like,” says Horowitz. “We think the next crisis is going to be [healthcare].”
The union said it might sign similar partnerships in other states. The union has two primary care facilities in New York and is looking to open 15 more in cities like Philadelphia, Portland, Austin, San Francisco and Los Angeles.
Now the freelancers just need to sign up.


Army soldier accused of avoiding flag salute, posting image on social media ,, 02-26-2014

Officials at Fort Carson in Colorado said Wednesday they are investigating reports that a soldier posted a photo on Instagram of herself deliberately avoiding saluting the flag, touching off a storm of criticism from a group representing families who lost loved ones.
Base officials issued a statement Wednesday saying they are aware of a social media post allegedly made by Pfc. Tariqka Sheffey indicating she stayed in her car to avoid a flag ceremony and they are looking into the situation.
Comments posted with the photo showing a female soldier in uniform relaxing in a car said "This is me laying back in my car hiding so I don't have to salute the (5 p.m. flag ceremony)." Her comments also told people to keep any angry responses to themselves. The story was first reported by the Army Times.
The initial post was later taken down.
According to the Department of Defense policies on social media posted on the web, soldiers are required to refrain from posting any comments or visual images that could hurt the military and ask permission before sending out any sensitive information.
Fort Carson officials said Wednesday they will continue to educate soldiers on standards and discipline and appropriate professional conduct on social media. A news conference was scheduled to discuss the issues Wednesday.
Ami Neiberger-Miller, spokeswoman for the Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors, which has helped 44,000 people who have lost loved ones since 1994, said Wednesday thousands of people have lost their lives fighting for the American flag.
"I think any patriotic person would find this offensive," she said.
Neiberger-Miller said this is the second serious incident in a week. Last week, two Wisconsin National Guard members were suspended in an investigation stemming from a photograph showing soldiers clowning around by an empty flag-draped casket at a guard training facility.
The photograph shows soldiers mugging for the camera around the empty casket. It shows 14 men and women posing, some lightheartedly. Two pairs of men hug playfully, another man has his back turned and is pointing off in the distance, and a kneeling woman flashes a peace sign.
The caption reads, "We put the FUN in funeral -- your fearless honor guard from various states."
Fort Carson spokeswoman Dani Johnson said Sheffey wasn't available for comment on Wednesday and attempts to reach the Wisconsin soldiers have been unsuccessful.


US army general killed in Afghanistan on first deployment to war zone ,, 08-06-2014

Harold J Greene, the two-star Army general who became the highest-ranking US military officer to be killed in either of America’s post-9\/11 wars, was an engineer who rose through the ranks as an expert in developing and fielding the army’s war materiel. He was on his first deployment to a war zone.
Greene was killed Tuesday when a gunman believed to be an Afghan soldier opened fire at a military academy near Kabul. More than a dozen other coalition soldiers were wounded, including about eight Americans, according to early accounts of the attack. It was among the bloodiest insider attacks of the war in Afghanistan.
The army’s top soldier, General Ray Odierno, issued a statement Tuesday evening saying the army’s thoughts and prayers were with Greene’s family as well as the families of those injured in the attack.
In a 34-year career that began at Fort Polk, Louisiana, Greene, a native of upstate New York, earned a reputation as an inspiring leader with a sense of humility. He had been in Afghanistan since January, serving as deputy commander of a support command called the Combined Security Transition Command, in Kabul.
At the time of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, Greene was serving at Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri, and when the US invaded Iraq in March 2003, he was a student at the Army War College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, at the rank of lieutenant colonel.
Greene flourished in the less glamorous side of the army that develops, tests, builds and supplies soldiers with equipment and technology. That is a particularly difficult job during wartime, since unconventional or unanticipated battlefield challenges like roadside bombs in Iraq and Afghanistan, call for urgent improvements in equipment.
In 2009-2011, for example, he served as deputy commanding general of the army’s Research, Development and Engineering Command and senior commander of the Natick Soldier System Center at Aberdeen Proving Ground in Aberdeen, Maryland. During that tour of duty he gained the rank of brigadier general, and at his promotion ceremony in December 2009 he was lauded for his leadership skills and ability to inspire those around him.
Lt General Stephen Speakes applauded Greene for a “sense of self, a sense of humility” and an exemplary work ethic, according to an account of the promotion ceremony published by the Times Union of Albany, New York, which called Greene an Albany native.
“In every job I had we got things done that I think made our army better, and it was done by other people,” Greene was quoted as saying. “All I did was try to pull people in the right direction and they went out and did great things.”
Greene and his wife, Susan, lived in the Washington suburb of Falls Church, Virginia, where neighbors recalled he would often go for morning runs, The Washington Post reported. The Greenes’ son Matthew is also in the army and their daughter, Amelia, recently graduated from Binghamton University in New York.
Greene earned a bachelor of science degree in materials engineering and a master’s degree in industrial engineering, both from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York. He later studied at the University of Southern California and also attended the US Army Command and General Staff College at Leavenworth, Kansas.
In 2010, he spoke at the opening of the Social Cognitive Networks Academic Research Center, a research facility at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute with the mission of improving the army’s understanding of social, information and communication networks, according to the army’s account of the event.
“We’re in a fight now with an enemy that’s a little bit different and uses different techniques ... and networks are a key part of that,” Greene said.
He said finding patterns in the tactics of insurgents was difficult because of the way networks evolve and otherwise change. So the goal was to bring to light the patterns and determine how to anticipate and influence the actions of insurgents.
“The enemy is every bit as good as we are at using that network to our detriment so this is essential work, this is about defending our country,” Greene said. “You must know that there is a direct application on the battlefield and we’re using it today, but we don’t really understand it yet so this is a critical element.”
His awards include the Legion of Merit, the Distinguished Service Medal, a Meritorious Service Award and an Army Commendation Medal.


Army kicking out decorated Green Beret who stood up for Afghan rape victim ,, 08-21-2015

EXCLUSIVE: The U.S. Army is kicking out a decorated Green Beret after an 11-year Special Forces career, after he got in trouble for shoving an Afghan police commander accused of raping a boy and beating up his mother when she reported the incident.
The case of Sgt. 1st Class Charles Martland now has the attention of Congress, with Rep. Duncan Hunter writing to Defense Secretary Ash Carter challenging the decision.
"I am once again dismayed by the Army's actions in this case," Hunter, R-Calif., wrote in a letter to Carter.
Martland is described by many of his teammates as the finest soldier they have ever served alongside.
But his Army career changed course during his second deployment to Afghanistan in 2011. After learning an Afghan boy was raped and his mother beaten, Martland and his team leader confronted a local police commander they had trained, armed and paid with U.S. taxpayer dollars. When the man laughed off the incident, they physically confronted him.
They were punished by the Army at the time -- but why exactly Martland is now being discharged is a matter of dispute. Army sources cited his accolades, including being named runner-up for 2014 Special Warfare Training Group Instructor of the Year from a pool of 400 senior leaders in Special Forces, in questioning the decision.
As for the incident in 2011, Hunter told Carter: "To intervene was a moral decision, and SFC Martland and his Special Forces team felt they had no choice but to respond."
Casey, a former Green Beret teammate who would only use his first name since he is now a member of a federal counterterrorism team, told Fox News, "If I was a commander, I would have given him an award. They saved that kid's life."
Martland grew up south of Boston, in Milton, Mass. An all-state football player in high school, he set his sights on playing college football after graduating in 2001. Martland went for the Florida State University team, which just finished a season ranked #4 in the nation.
He made the team, impressing legendary head coach Bobby Bowdon and famed defensive coordinator Mickey Andrews. Still, he often remained on the sidelines. When Pat Tillman, a former NFL football player who volunteered for the Army Rangers, was killed in Afghanistan in 2004, he saw Tillman's sacrifice as motivation to apply for another elite program. Martland dropped out of college and graduated in 2006 from Special Forces Qualification Course, one of the U.S. military's toughest training programs. Over the years he became a jumpmaster, combat diver and sniper.
After a deployment to Iraq in 2008, he deployed to Afghanistan in January 2010 as part of a 12-man unit. He and his team found themselves fighting large numbers of Taliban militants in volatile Kunduz Province.
On one mission, one of their vehicles was struck by an IED, setting off a Taliban ambush. Fox News is told Martland rushed to the scene. He jumped in the turret of a damaged Humvee, exposing himself to enemy bullets while returning fire to help his teammates gather sensitive equipment.
"I thought he was gone, then he comes out of nowhere to save us," said an active-duty Green Beret who requested anonymity.
Martland was awarded a Bronze Star with Valor for his actions. According to one evaluation, he also was "praised" by Gen. David Petraeus, then commander of U.S. and allied forces in Afghanistan.
But very quickly, the Green Berets realized they had a problem with many of the Afghans they were training to become local police officers.
"We had been hearing for months about raping in our province, not just in Afghanistan," said Daniel Quinn, a West Point graduate and the team leader of the detachment sent to Kunduz.
One day in early September 2011 at their remote outpost, a young Afghan boy and his Afghan-Uzbek mother showed up at camp. The 12-year-old showed the Green Berets where his hands had been tied. A medic took him to a back room for an examination with an interpreter, who told them the boy had been raped by another commander by the name of Abdul Rahman.
After learning of the meeting, Rahman allegedly beat the boy's mother for reporting the crime. It was at this point, the Green Berets had had enough. Quinn and Martland went to confront Rahman.
"He confessed to the crime and laughed about it, and said it wasn't a big deal. Even when we patiently explained how serious the charge was, he kept laughing," Quinn said.
According to reports of the incident, Quinn and Martland shoved Abdul Rahman to the ground. It was the only way to get their point across, according to Quinn. "As a man, as a father of a young boy myself at the time, I felt obliged to step in to prevent further repeat occurrences," Quinn said.
Rahman walked away bruised from getting shoved and thrown to the ground, but otherwise okay, according to teammates. But Rahman quickly reported the incident to another Army unit in a nearby village. The next day a U.S. Army helicopter landed and took Quinn and Martland away, ending their work in Kunduz Province.
For the next few weeks, both soldiers remained in Afghanistan but were not allowed to continue their mission. They were given temporary jobs in Mazar-i-Sharif in northern Afghanistan and later in Herat. Pending the outcome of the investigation, both men were relieved from their positions and sent home. Their war was over.
Quinn has since left the Army and started a job on Wall Street.
Martland, though, has been fighting to stay in the Army. In February 2015, the Army conducted a "Qualitative Management Program" review board. His supporters suspect because Martland had a "relief for cause" evaluation in his service record, the U.S. Army ordered Martland to be "involuntary discharged" from the Army by Nov. 1, 2015.
The U.S. Army could not confirm the specifics of Martland's separation from service due to privacy reasons, according to Wayne Hall, an Army spokesman.
Critics point to the Army drawdown as a reason. One former Green Beret said any negative mark on a soldier's record can get them kicked out, given the drawdown.
Martland still has received the highest scores in evaluations since the incident.
"It's sad to think that a child rapist is put above one of our elite military operators. Sergeant Martland was left with no other choice but to intervene in a bad situation. ... The Army should stand up for what's right and should not side with a corrupt Afghan police officer," Hunter told Fox News.
A childhood friend who went on to play in the NFL, Tim Bulman, said of Martland: "You would want him in your corner and protecting our freedom."


World War 3 would be ‘extremely lethal and fast’ US Army chiefs reveal ,, 10-06-2016

Military bosses were taking part in a ‘future-of-the-Army’ panel in Washington
Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
AMERICAN military bosses have confessed that World War 3 is “almost guaranteed” and will be “extremely lethal and fast.”
Speaking at a ‘future-of-the-Army’ panel at the Association of the U.S. Army in Washington, generals and other leading figures laid out their depressing forecasts for upcoming conflicts.
Alamy 3 Military bosses have warned against the threat of Russia and China
Smart weapons and artificial intelligence will dominate these ultra-violent wars between super-aggressive nation states.
According to a report by Defense One, Major General William Hix said: “A conventional conflict in the near future will be extremely lethal and fast, and we will not own the stopwatch.
“The speed of events are likely to strain our human abilities.
RELATED STORIES 'WE'LL DESTROY YOU' US Army chief fires terrifying threat to Russia over Syria and warns: 'We'll beat you anywhere, anytime' APOCALYPSE NOW (ISH) Is Russia preparing for nuclear war and what would happen if Putin launched a nuke? 'UNQUESTIONABLY A WAR CRIME' Vladimir Putin is slaughtering innocent civilians in Syria on purpose, claims Boris Johnson 'BARBARIC ATTACK' Putin's warplanes are accused of dropping NAPALM in Syria - as Boris Johnson claims Russia could be guilty of war crimes WILL ASSANGE SINK CLINTON? Julian Assange to release of info about Hillary Clinton that 'will swing US election for Trump' KIM BOMB-UN North Korea warns UN it is preparing for 'nuclear war' with the US over tensions with the South KIM SLOW-UN North Korean tyrant orders motorists to slow to 3mph when passing giant statutes of his father and grandad HAPPY NUKE YEAR North Korea to stick two fingers up to West with new nuke launch before 'end of year' Kim-edy gold! Oddball TV show from North Korea's tyrannical regime shows actors mocking President Obama's shock at nuke test
“The speed at which machines can make decisions in the far future is likely to challenge our ability to cope, demanding a new relationship between man and machine.”
Hix warned that the US is preparing for “violence on the scale that the U.S. Army has not seen since Korea” when over 30,000 American troops were slaughtered.
The General said that China and Russia are both developing huge militaries which are driven by new technologies.
Lt. General Joseph Anderson said America faces frightening threats “modern nation-states acting aggressively in militarised competition.”
He said: “Who does that sound like? Russia?”
Army Chief of Staff General Mark A. Milley added that war between nation states “is almost guaranteed”.
Miley warned that America’s enemies could end their superiority in the air which it has enjoyed since the Korean War in 1950 and stop its Naval forces through a mixture of anti-access and area-denial capabilities.
Getty Images 3 Future conflicts between nation states will be “extremely lethal and fast”
Getty Images 3 Amry chiefs warned the US is preparing for conflicts on the scale of the Korean War
He said: “Land forces will have to enable sea forces.
“(The Army) is definitely going to have to dominate the air above our battle space.”
The strikingly honest military chief said America must prepare for advanced cyber warfare and fight guerrilla-style in complex urban settings.
Miley also cited a strengthened Russia, an increasingly dominate China, expanding smaller nation states and climate change as factors which could lead to instability.
He said: “While we’re ready now, we are being challenged.
“Our Army and our nation must be ready.”
Speaking about future weapons, Katharina McFarland, acting assistant Army secretary for acquisition, logistics, and technology, revealed plans to make tanks and other military machines user-friendly.
Addressing the soldiers and other military personnel in the room, she said: “You travel all over the world, don’t you?
“You can pretty much get in a car anywhere and drive it.
“As an engineer, I think in terms of a simple interface — no matter what helicopter, you can get in and operate it.”
US Army General Mark Milley sends fiery warning to Russia
We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368


Thai junta dissolves senate as army tightens grip ,, 05-25-2014

Thailand's military junta has dissolved the country's last remaining democratic institution – the senate – and ordered dozens of activists and journalists to turn themselves in to the army as protests grow against Thursday's coup.
The governing National Council for Peace and Order (NCPO) announced in a televised statement late on Saturday that it had dissolved the senate and would be assuming control of all lawmaking powers, a few hours after it summoned 35 prominent academics and activists to report to army headquarters. That was in addition to some 155 leading politicians and leaders it had already called in for questioning.
The council has also sacked the police chief and head of the department of special investigations, Thailand's FBI, and on Sunday afternoon it called in the editors of 18 major Thai newspapers. They included Khaosod, the Bangkok Post, ASTV, Matichon and Thairath, according to the online news portal Prachatai. It was not clear if the editors would be allowed to leave or detained in unknown locations like those arrested earlier.
In a separate summons, the outspoken columnist Pravit Rojanaphruk, who writes for English-language paper the Nation, was asked to meet independently with the junta and said on Sunday morning he was en route to army headquarters. "On my way to see the new dictator of Thailand. Hopefully the last," he tweeted. He did not appear to have been released by Sunday afternoon.
More than 100 people, among them the former prime minister Yingluck Shinawatra, who was apprehended on Saturday, remain in military detention in secret locations in what has been seen as a move to suppress dissent and potential opposition to the military takeover.
"What is scary now is that the army appears to be the most united institution in Thai society," said Dr Paul Chambers of the institute of south-east Asian affairs, which is affiliated to Chiang Mai University.
Thailand's army seized power in what it said was an effort to restore peace and order after six months of political infighting left 28 people dead and more than 700 injured. But the coup leaders are also facing trouble in southern Thailand, where at least 10 bombs exploded on Saturday, reportedly killing three people and wounding 63. An Islamic insurgency has been under way in the south for a decade.
Troops were deployed across central Bangkok on Sunday, concentrated around the shopping malls of Rajprasong, to dispel a growing crowd of protesters defying a public ban on gatherings of five or more people. The crowd shouted at the soldiers, held up banners reading "anti coup" and called for elections and a return to democratic rule.
About 1,000 people gathered for a similar protest on Saturday in Bangkok, where some were reportedly arrested, while others protested against the coup in the northern city of Chiang Mai, a political stronghold for the now-deposed Pheu Thai party. Demonstrations also took place at the beach resort of Pattaya and at Khon Kaen in the north-east.
The army chief and head of the junta, General Prayuth Chan-ocha, now serving as acting prime minister, warned people against joining the protests: "Democratic principles cannot be executed normally," he said.
On Thursday, Prayuth dissolved the lower house of parliament and suspended the constitution, one that he had previously helped draw up in 2006 when he was part of the last military coup that deposed Thaksin Shinawatra as prime minister. Emptying out both the house and senate means the junta will bypass the need for parliamentary approval of new laws.
Many of those told to report to the junta appear to been outwardly critical of Thailand's lese-majeste law, known as Article 112, which calls for up to 15 years' imprisonment for defamatory, insulting or threatening comments about the royal family. Critics claim it stifles public debate and helps to maintain the status quo.
Recent attempts to reform the law have been met with fervent resistance by royalists, among them Prayuth, who according to the Associated Press told critics: "If you guys play hardball I'll have no choice but to do so too."
After initially blocking all Thai and foreign television channels from broadcasting, the junta has allowed some to go back on the air. But it appears that many international channels – among them CNN and BBC – are still blocked. About 14 Thai TV channels and radio stations were still banned, the Bangkok Post reported.
Chambers said the speed at which the junta was instituting change was "very worrisome" and that the immediate future for Thailand looked bleak. "I see more jailings. I see the enshrinement of more army power. I see the beginning of civil war after Thaksin announces a government in exile," he said.
A number of nations and human rights organisations have expressed their grave concern over the military's recent actions. The US, a major trading partner, has suspended $3.5m (£2m) in military aid.
"We are increasingly concerned about actions the military has taken, just a few days after it staged a coup … We again call on the military to release those detained for political reasons, end restrictions on the media and move to restore civilian rule and democracy through elections," a state department spokeswoman said on Saturday.
The Asian Human Rights Commission said the military's use of the media to issue the summons could be seen as a form of terror, and said that those in detention in were in danger of being subjected to grave human rights abuses.
"While the junta has made reassurances that those who report themselves will not be mistreated, within the context of martial law … this reassurance carries no weight," it said in a statement.
"Citizens are subject to up to seven days of detention without the authorities having to provide evidence of wrongdoing or bring formal charges … mean[ing] that the possibility for rights violations, including torture, forced disappearance or extrajudicial execution is greatly increased."


Army doctors performed CPR on pilot after he suffered heart attack mid-flight ,, 09-28-2013

A United Airlines pilot died after suffering a major heart attack while flying from Houston to Seattle, forcing crew members to make an emergency landing in Idaho while two doctors on board did CPR in the first-class cabin.
Pilot Henry Skillern, 63, of Humble, Texas, was still alive when firefighters and paramedics ran to his aid Thursday night on the Boise Airport tarmack. He died a short time later while being treated at Saint Alphonsus Regional Medical Center, spokeswoman Jennifer Krajnik said.
Skillern had been a pilot for United Airlines for 26 years.
Boise airport spokeswoman Patti Miller said it's not uncommon for a medical emergency to force a plane to divert to the nearest airport. The Boise airport has had three such diversions in the past two days, she said. But it's rare for a serious malady to strike pilots who undergo regular medical screening to keep their Federal Aviation Administration certification current.
Passengers aboard the Boeing 737-900 flown by Skillern seemed to handle the emergency well, Miller said.
"It seemed like they felt that everything that could be done, was being done," she said. "The passengers were concerned for him, but everyone was very calm."
Passenger Bryant Magill described a professional scene onboard.
"I'm really impressed with all the flight attendants," Magill told Seattle TV station KOMO. "They kept themselves calm. They kept it professional. There was no panic on the plane."
United spokeswoman Christen David declined to release details about how the crew members realized the pilot was in distress and what their next steps were. The first officer radioed air traffic controllers at 7:55 p.m. to report the aircraft needed to make an emergency landing; the plane was on the ground in Boise by 8:10 p.m., Miller said.
The two doctors and an off-duty United Airlines pilot were among the 161 people aboard the flight. The off-duty pilot aided the first officer -- who is also a trained pilot -- in landing the plane while the physicians performed CPR.
The doctors who helped the pilot were from Madigan Army Medical Center, said Jay Ebbeson, public affairs officer for the hospital at Joint Base Lewis-McChord.
Glenn Harmon, an aerospace physiologist who was an airline pilot for nine years before becoming a professor at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, said all commercial airline pilots undergo a medical screening every six months to keep their certification with the FAA.
That screening typically includes a test to measure heart function called an EKG, Harmon said, but the test doesn't necessarily pick up every condition.
Sometimes, the in-flight environment can have a small impact on pre-existing medical conditions, Harmon said. The air on a flight is dry, usually at between 10 or 20 percent humidity, and that can contribute to dehydration.
"One thing that happens to us as pilots is we might be dehydrated and not know it," Harmon said. "We don't like to guzzle lots of water because it's so complicated now to get up and leave the cockpit to go to the bathroom."
Sitting in a cramped seating position for long periods can lead to deep vein thrombosis, or clots deep inside the body. Passengers can get up from their seats and move around to help prevent DVT, but pilots don't get the same opportunity, Harmon said.
The cabin pressure also has a slight effect on blood oxygen levels.
Flight crews train for medical emergencies, and most airlines subscribe to a service that puts them in immediate radio contact with a doctor on the ground in case of emergencies. Additionally, all commercial flights have a first officer onboard who is trained to fly the plane in addition to the pilot. There's often a third, off-duty pilot flying to or from work who can help in an emergency.
Even the biggest commercial aircrafts can generally be flown and landed by just one pilot, Harmon said.


Israeli army charges soldier for killing wounded Palestinian ,, 04-18-2016

Israeli Army Radio says a military court has indicted a soldier for manslaughter in the fatal shooting of a wounded Palestinian attacker in the West Bank.
The radio said Monday that the soldier, whose name was not released under a gag order, has also been charged with inappropriate military conduct. The shooting took place last month in Hebron, a West Bank city that has been a focal point of a seven-month wave of Israeli-Palestinian violence.
Initially, the military had said two Palestinians stabbed and wounded a soldier before troops killed the pair. A video later showed one of the attackers still alive before a soldier shot him in the head.
THIS IS A BREAKING NEWS UPDATE. Check back soon for further information. AP's earlier story is below.
The Israeli military said Monday it has discovered and destroyed a tunnel burrowing from Gaza into Israel — the first tunnel to be discovered since Israel's 2014 war with the militant Hamas movement that runs the coastal strip.
Israeli troops detected the tunnel's exit, still underground, several days ago, according to military spokesman Lt. Col. Peter Lerner, who added he believes the tunnel was built after the summer war.
It extended several hundred meters (yards) from Gaza into Israel and was lined with cement and outfitted with electricity, ventilation and rail tracks to cart away dirt from digging, Lerner said.
It was not clear when exactly the tunnel was destroyed.
In 2014, Israel destroyed more than 30 tunnels Hamas had dug under the border. More than 2,200 Palestinians, about two-thirds of them civilians, were killed in the 50-day summer war. On the Israeli side, 66 soldiers and seven civilians were killed.
Hamas vowed to rebuild the tunnel network. This year, 14 people died in Gaza while digging tunnels aimed at attacking Israelis or for hiding weapons and rocket launch sites. Israelis living near the Gaza Strip have reported hearing digging sounds under their homes in recent months.
Spokesman Eyal Brandeis of Kibbutz Sufa — just across the border from the southern Gaza Strip — told Israel Radio the tunnel's exit would have been near his community. In 2014, Palestinian gunmen attempted to attack Israel through another tunnel near the kibbutz.
"All the worries and fears residents here had ... are coming back," Brandeis said.
___
This story has been corrected to show that the length of the discovered tunnel was several hundred meters, not 100 meters (yards).


Mexico's Peña Nieto says that alleged army massacre will be fully investigated ,, 09-23-2014

Mexico President Enrique Peña Nieto said Monday that all questions about an army killing of 22 people that a witness said was a massacre will be answered by an attorney general's investigation.
"The attorney general is digging into the investigation and will be the agency responding to this issue," Peña Nieto told The Associated Press after participating in an economic forum. He is in New York to attend the U.N. General Assembly meeting.
An AP reporter started to ask Peña Nieto for his reaction to two AP stories revealing doubts about the army's version of the June 30 killings in southern rural Mexico, but he interrupted, saying, "I already know what your question is."
The witness told the AP that soldiers killed 20 men and her 15-year-old daughter after they had surrendered following a confrontation in an abandoned warehouse in the town of San Pedro Limón. She said her daughter and another boy were shot to death as they lay wounded after the groups exchanged fire. The 20 inside had walked out with their hands on the back of their necks, she said. She did not want to be identified for fear of reprisals.
She was at the warehouse trying to retrieve her daughter from the gang when the army came upon them in the early morning and started firing.
The army said soldiers came under fire from a gang of armed men at a grain warehouse and returned fire in self-defense. They said 21 men and one woman died in a firefight, and three kidnap victims were rescued unharmed. The witness, one of the army's "kidnap victims," said she was not kidnapped.
The army's version came under question even before the witness came forward because the toll was so lopsided. Only one soldier was wounded. The AP visited the site after the shootout and found stray bullet marks and no signs of a massive shootout. Instead, at least five spots along the warehouse's inside walls showed the same pattern: One or two closely placed bullet pocks, surrounded by a mass of spattered blood, giving the appearance that some of those killed had been standing against the wall and shot at about chest level.
Peña Nieto spoke four days after the attorney general said the confrontation is under investigation. Mexico's National Commission on Human Rights said it has seen the autopsies and is conducting its own investigation.
The U.S. State Department urged Mexico on Friday to investigate the case, saying it is "imperative that there is a credible review of the circumstances."
Follow us on twitter.com\/foxnewslatino
Like us at facebook.com\/foxnewslatino


'We need more Americans': Army boss, 3rd-generation vet tackles recruitment ,, 05-30-2016

Millions of Americans fired up their grills and headed off to the beach this holiday weekend for the unofficial start of summer.
But for Army veteran Patrick Murphy, this is a Memorial Day unlike any other.
The former active-duty captain is now the Army's second-highest ranking civilian – serving as under secretary of the Army since January. In that role, Murphy oversees the management and operation of the U.S. military's largest branch, an organization whose size and scale rival that of a Fortune 10 company.
“It's being back home right now, to be back with these soldiers,” Murphy told Fox News.
Now, Murphy faces the challenge of a lifetime: Running the world’s premier fighting force at a time of declining resources, and making sure it continues to attract America’s best.
And boosting recruitment is a fundamental goal.
"We need more Americans coming into our military," Murphy told Fox News.
To this day, military service tends to run in the family. According to Murphy, 79 percent of the Army's current recruits have family members who also served. Murphy himself is a third-generation veteran.
But even as the country is engaged in its longest-running wars, less than 1 percent of the population has served.
"Right now, we bring in about 132,000 Americans each year -- and leave each year. Whether they serve for three years or 30 years, we need America's sons and daughters," Murphy said.
A new kind of Army success story, however, may prove valuable in recruiting younger generations.
Army veterans are more likely to be employed, more likely to own small businesses and more likely to vote, Murphy said. Business tycoons including Bill Bowerman, the co-founder of Nike, and Alex Gorsky, CEO of Johnson & Johnson, are Army veterans – the challenge is making sure those stories are told.
"These stories aren't out there and we have to do a better job of not just telling our story, but asking other Americans to tell our story," Murphy said.
Murphy understands the toll of military service better than most in Washington. He was deployed twice overseas – first to Bosnia in 2002, and then to Iraq in 2003. While there, his unit lost 19 men in combat.
“Serving as a member of the 82nd Airborne Division, I led convoys up and down ambush alley in Baghdad,” said Murphy. “I wished the folks in Washington understood war and what we’re asking of our sons and daughters.”
That sentiment brought Murphy to Washington in 2007, as a freshman member of Congress – the first Iraq war veteran to serve on Capitol Hill. A Democrat, Murphy represented Pennsylvania’s 8th District in the U.S. House, serving on the Armed Services and Appropriations committees. He lost his seat in 2010 when the Tea Party wave rolled through Congress.
At the time, the Army’s budget was nearly $240 billion. Today, that number hovers closer to $150 billion.
While Murphy knows the strain felt by soldiers on the ground, he also knows Washington’s political imperatives – and so he makes the case that the Army can do more with less.
He says the administration's budget gives the Army the right resources.
“The answer isn’t about size,” he explained. “The principal strategic issue being addressed is not force structure, but readiness. This is our number one priority."
Not everyone agrees on the issue of resources. Earlier this year, Republican lawmakers pushed back hard on Army plans to cut thousands of active-duty soldiers.
In a letter to colleagues earlier this month, Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain, R-Ariz., called for an end to the “budget-driven reduction,” citing threats from the Islamic State, Russia and beyond.
This Memorial Day, as he struggles with these competing pressures, Murphy said his job is to make sure troops are “prepared to go into harm’s way” – and to ensure “they are the best-manned, best-trained and best-equipped Army this nation has ever seen.”


Syrian army barrel bombs kill 25 in rebel-held area of Aleppo ,, 02-06-2015

Syrian army helicopters dropped two barrel bombs on a crowded square in a rebel-held neighborhood in the northern city of Aleppo, killing at least 25 civilians, activists said Friday.
Among the casualties in the attack, which took place on Thursday night, were people sitting on a bus and others coming to the square to collect water, the activists said. The attack came just hours after rebels bombarded the capital, Damascus, killing nine people there Thursday.
The Aleppo attack coincided with a wider government offensive against rebel positions across Syria, where the brutal civil war has lately been overshadowed by the rampage by militants from the Islamic State group, which has captured large swaths of territory both in Syria and neighboring Iraq.
The United Nations estimates that more than 220,000 people have been killed in Syria's nearly 4-year-old conflict.
Three sources provided different death tolls from the barrel-bombings in Aleppo. Disparate casualty figures are common in the Syrian conflict, especially in the immediate aftermath of big attacks.
An activist group called the Local Coordination Committees said at least 25 died. The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said at least 27 died.
And an Aleppo-based activist, Ahmad al-Ahmad, said 47 were killed in all. He said 27 died in or near a crowded bus, while 10 others were killed as they waited to collect water from a public tanker, and 10 more died later as ambulances ferried scores of wounded to hospitals.
An amateur video posted by activists online showed paramedics helping a wounded man whose face was covered with blood come out of the bus, then rushing him way. The lifeless body of a woman is seen on a back seat of the bus, while one of a man lies on the pavement outside.
The footage also shows paramedics, flashlights on their helmets, pulling an older man from a bus window in the darkness. An unidentified man wails to the cameras, saying the bombs are "falling on us every day."
The video appeared genuine and corresponded to AP's reporting of the events depicted.


