Title : Millions of Americans don't believe Biden was elected fairly. Here's how that's affecting voting laws

Original :
Two months after Inauguration Day, President Joe Biden is fully immersed in the daily activities of the presidency. He’s signed bills, announced a flurry of executive orders and delivered a speech from the White House’s red-carpeted Cross Hall. Yet the false narrative that Biden was not duly elected lingers. That is, millions of Americans don’t believe the 2020 presidential election reflected the will of the people.
As the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol proved, belief that the election was not free or fair can be dangerous. While many pinned the riots to former President Donald Trump’s messaging, experts like Jonathan Rauch, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and author of “The Constitution of Knowledge: A Defense of Truth,” say the fact that Trump is out of office doesn’t mean that the conspiracy theories about the election will go away.
“Trump was a node in a very large international network,” said Rauch. “He’s not and never was the only node.”
Fighting disinformation will be a “long-term struggle,” he added.
More than half of Americans believe that either or both of the last two presidential elections were fraudulent, according to data reported by political analyst Scott Rasmussen in the Deseret News. His polling showed 26% believe Hillary Clinton was the legitimate winner in 2016 and 31% believe Trump was the legitimate winner in 2020.
While research like this shows disinformation is not new and comes from both sides of the aisle, Kathryn Olmsted, a professor of history at University of California, Davis, who studies anti-government conspiracies, says it’s a growing problem. Increasing distrust of election results and the use of disinformation as a political weapon could ultimately undermine our democracy, she said.
Now, Republican legislators in dozens of states are using the public perception of widespread election fraud to advocate for changes to voting laws, in what Berkeley Public Policy professor Robert Reich called “the biggest attack on voting rights since Jim Crow,” on Twitter. But with a majority of Americans supporting election system reform, other Republican states like Tennessee are seeking compromise bills that would increase the security of elections without raising unnecessary barriers to voting. Still, as lawmakers in states like Georgia, Florida and Arizona push to limit early voting, the use of ballot drop boxes or vote by mail (long-embraced in Utah), Olmsted worries that trying to fix a problem that doesn’t exist could backfire and make it harder for more and more people to vote.
What is disinformation and why is it on the rise?
Misinformation is generally defined as false or misleading information, whereas disinformation specifically refers to false or misleading content that is spread intentionally to deceive. While both have been increasing for decades, Trump’s propensity for making false statements while president brought increased attention to the problem, said Olmsted. Then, the 2020 pandemic ratcheted up paranoia and fueled animosity toward institutions that imposed gathering restrictions and mask-wearing, in addition to giving people more time to spend online, she said.
In 2020, Pew Research Center reported that nearly 1 in 5 U.S. adults said they got their political news primarily from social media. That subsection of the population was mostly under 30 and more likely to encounter conspiracy theories, the data showed. A December poll from NPR and Ipsos showed that 7% of respondents don’t think the 9/11 attacks were carried out by al-Qaida terrorists and 19% don’t believe former President Barack Obama was born in the United States.

Generated :
A senator from Illinois is running to thwart LGBT rights. Getty Images
This may be the most enlightening illustration of the influence of billionaires in U.S. politics. Indeed, the day of the 2018 midterm elections comes just in time for the first day of Election Day. As a result, prospective Democrats may begin to realize the significance of having this new face in the Oval Office.
Senator Ben Cardin wrote this article shortly after he was elected to the Senate. Cardin wants to repeal and replace Obamacare -- dubbed “Obamacare II” -- next year, hoping to win a seat in the New Democrat-controlled Senate and carry out his promise.
Cardin succeeds the late Sen. Patrick Leahy, a Republican, and pushes the issue into the future: "The prospects of repealing Obamacare in the new Congress are low," he said at the time. "If Democrats truly feel the urgency, they should get it right and make [Obamacare] Medicare and Medicaid permanent."
Cardin’s supporters state he won’t only repeal Obamacare in the Senate, but repeal it in the House of Representatives. He is even more ruthless than he imagined in apologizing for his cowardice in recent weeks, working to the death of Mark Sanford.
Voters believe that plenty of the smartest Democrats come after these senators in first-round runs in 2018. In 2013, party leadership wrote a plan to gradually phase out Obamacare (and replace it with comprehensive spending cuts) over a six-year period. Cardin, himself an expert on the ACA, defended this move as “a constitutional right” to block expenditures before the law’s expiration.
Yet Cardin’s deputy, deputy White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, had been smart enough to take a step back from the original plan and “run with the gut,” Sanders wrote in an email. “Ultimately, delaying the repeal of the Affordable Care Act or the replacement with all spending cuts would not actually enhance health insurance for Americans.”
Sanders’s editorial formulation mischaracterized the Washington Post’s first-round battle against the Affordable Care Act as an “efficiency play” in favor of the hated health insurance industry, said of Cardin.
Well, in a funny way.
