Title : Capitol police officer dies of apparent suicide days after invasion by pro-Trump mob

Original :
Authorities on Sunday announced the death of a 51-year-old Capitol Police officer. Two people familiar with the matter told the Associated Press that the officer’s death was an apparent suicide.
Officer Howard Liebengood had been assigned to the Senate Division and was with the department since 2005. He is the son of a former Senate sergeant-at-arms in the 1980's.
It was not clear whether his death was connected to Wednesday's events at the Capitol, when a pro-Trump mob looking to interrupt Congress's session to confirm electoral votes invaded the building.
The officials who spoke to the Associated Press were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. The USCP union did confirm Liebengood's death in a statement on Sunday, but did not mention the cause.
"We extend our deepest sympathies to Officer Liebengood’s family and we mourn the death of a friend and colleague who worked alongside us to protect the lives of the Members of Congress, their staff and all who serve at the U.S. Capitol," the statement says.
The statement also says Liebengood was among those who responded to the Capitol riot on Wednesday.
Another Capitol officer, Brian D. Sicknick, died after he was hit in the head with a fire extinguisher as rioters descended on the building and many other officers were injured.
A woman from California was shot to death by Capitol Police and three other people died after medical emergencies during the chaos.
In the aftermath of the events at the Capitol, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser wrote a letter requesting that the United States Department of Homeland Security boost its security preparations for the January 20 presidential inauguration to ensure the safety of those involved in the event.
In the January 9 letter, the mayor is requesting that the D.H.S. extend the National Special Security Event period to run from Monday, Jan. 11 to Sunday, Jan. 24. Bowser says this is an increase from the current period from Jan. 19 to Jan. 21 to allow for improved federal and D.C. government preparation for the inauguration.
The United States Capitol Police provided the following statement to ABC7:
The United States Capitol Police is deeply saddened by the off-duty death of Officer Howard Liebengood, age 51. He was assigned to the Senate Division, and has been with the Department since April 2005. Our thoughts and prayers go out to his family, friends, and colleagues. We ask that his family, and other USCP officers’ and their families’ privacy be respected during this profoundly difficult time.

Generated :
A Wall Street police officer has died of a possible suicide in his care after an invasion of his home, two people familiar with the situation said Wednesday.
The motive, officials said, was unclear. Three people had been in his care since he broke up with his girlfriend shortly after she moved to New York from Florida in May.
Orlando police, where Independent Police Review Authority investigators interviewed the officer last month, said it was not clear why he didn’t report the outburst. The chief added that the initial talk with the department seemed inappropriate and he was not aware there were ongoing concerns, though he said that wasn’t consistent with his handling of the situation.
Otis, 46, a public-safety specialist for the district attorney’s office in the area of the shooting, has been placed on administrative leave after his death. The law enforcement agency said in a statement that “he has been administratively released from administrative duties.” It would not specify when he was taken off administrative duties and made further reference to the ongoing probe of police misconduct by the IDPA.
The AP was unable to reach a female law enforcement official for comment Wednesday afternoon, and no immediate update was immediately available from police.
His death comes six months after a drama between the New York Observer and law enforcement began to unfold. It comes amid administration and Democratic party efforts to put candidates on the Oct. 8 primary ballot in New York.
Athletic director Dan Ashe said before the story broke that he wasn’t surprised but reassessed his position at the news agency.
“It was obvious he was doing his job and taking very serious investigative steps,” Ashe said, adding that the newspaper first reported the death late Tuesday.
A page-length document detailing some of the events that led to the officer’s fatal battle with a killer emerged Wednesday with a pile of information that included information that believed another NYPD officer may have been responsible, according to a public official.
The official said the document, which was the latest in a long line of documents detailing police misconduct since NY1 became a news entity in 1999, was “abstract,” not sharp. The document, however, contained “vomiting,” a file that recounted the Sun Top beating of an inmate and an “additional text” that said he had no security clearance that day. It described what happened.
Other notes, many of which have been widely reported, include about the New York Times reporter, James Ragland, and the Connecticut AP’s political reporter David Ogden Anderson, who reported on the scandal for The Guardian newspaper. Ragland is based in the Connecticut capital of Hartford.
Officials said the president of the guardian board of police in New York – the highest agency tasked with monitoring NYPD – had called Sgt. Roberto Hernandez to inform him about the officer’s death. The New York Police Department declined to release his name.
Ryan J. Sparling, the New York Police Department’s chief executive officer, said later in a statement the office had received an investigation and that it was “committed to the safety of our personnel, our officers and the community we serve.”
The New York Police Department’s acting police commissioner, Joe Deters, said in a statement Wednesday the department was reviewing the incident. He declined to say whether the report has been officially submitted to the criminal division for review. He also said there had been no update on the investigation’s findings.
New York Democrats have been vocal in condemning claims by various intelligence community operatives that the fatal confrontation with the gunman, Jared Lee Loughner, is aimed at Clinton investigators. Loughner was shot dead by an officer during a Monday night shooting outside a gated community in the southern part of the city.
“This was a highly dysfunctional situation with no accountability for anything,” Rep. Nydia Velazquez, D-N.Y., said at the time.
___
Wade reported from Boston.
___
This article was provided by the Associated Press and originally published in The Associated Press.
