Title : George Floyd death | Four Minneapolis police officers face charges

Original :
A fired Minneapolis police officer will face a more serious murder charge and three other sacked officers will be charged as aiding and abetting in the death of an unarmed black man that triggered eight days of nationwide protest, court documents said on Wednesday.
George Floyd, 46, died after Derek Chauvin, a white policeman, knelt on his neck for nearly nine minutes on May 25, reigniting the explosive issue of police brutality against African Americans five months before a presidential election.
Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison is charging Chauvin, 44, with second-degree murder in addition to the third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter charges leveled against him last week, according to court documents.
The new charge can carry a sentence of up to 40 years, 15 years longer than the maximum sentence for third-degree murder.
Also read: George Floyd killing | Protesters defy curfews, march across U.S.
The other three former officers who were involved in the incident - Thomas Lane, J. Alexander Kueng and Tou Thao - face charges of aiding and abetting murder and arrest warrants have been issued by Mr. Ellison, according to the documents.
Mr. Ellison, a black former U.S. congressman, has requested that bail be set at $1 million for each of the four former officers, the documents showed. Mr. Ellison was expected to hold a briefing later on Wednesday.
Also read: Medical examiner declares George Floyd death homicide - report
When reached by Reuters over the phone, Earl Gray, the attorney for Lane, said he had not received any information on the charges yet. Attorneys for the other officers who are being charged did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
‘Significant step forward’
“This is a significant step forward on the road to justice, and we are gratified that this important action was brought before George Floyd's body was laid to rest,” Benjamin Crump, attorney for the Floyd family, said in a statement.
He later told CNN that Chauvin should be facing a first-degree murder charge, and that Mr. Ellison had informed Floyd's family that the investigation is ongoing and other charges could be filed.
Protesters who have vented their anger over Floyd's death in sometimes violent demonstrations in major U.S. cities over the past week had demanded the case be widened to include all the officers who were present during the incident.
“This is another important step for justice,” said U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar, who is from Minnesota and a potential running mate for presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden in the Nov. 3 election.
Tens of thousands of people defied curfews and took to the streets of cities coast to coast for an eighth night in protest over Floyd's death and brutality against other black Americans.
Authorities took the unusual step of ordering the curfews, and bands of police in riot gear and other heavily armed officers patrolled, ringing landmarks and shouting at protesters while helicopters roared overhead.
While most protests have been peaceful, there was less looting and vandalism overnight, and clashes between police and protesters were more sporadic.
The protests have highlighted the issues of racial inequality and excessive police force in a country that will go to the polls on Nov. 3 to decide whether to give Republican President Donald Trump another term in the White House.
Mr. Trump has said justice must be done in Floyd's case but also touted a hard line on the violent protests, threatening to use the military to end the chaos. Mr. Biden has vowed to heal the racial divide in the nation if he is elected.

Generated :
Four Minneapolis police officers face charges today for allegedly shooting and wounding a man a year ago.
Two officers who testified at a June 2 preliminary hearing, according to news reports, are all charged with aggravated assault on a law enforcement officer and face up to five years in prison if convicted. They are Wanda Smith, 33, and Tanya Peard, 28, both of the 7th Precinct, where Officer Garrett Gillum allegedly shot and wounded an Uber driver during a stop last December.
In their previous testimony, Peard and a second officer testified they were doing their job when the driver opened fire. The cops described their actions as strictly illegal. The second officer also testified his first response was to "just let go" and "rethink."
The inquiry is the second time the officers have been charged. They were cleared earlier this year by the Minneapolis Municipal Court. The first charges were dismissed by the court after prosecutors had failed to show that one of the officers had access to the evidence.
"We are trying to get to the bottom of this. We're trying to figure out what did this actually go through to get to the right person, why did they do what they did and what now is the opportunity to do something, other than let it happen," said Special Deputy District Attorney Karen Davis.
Smith, Peard and Gillum were awaiting trial in January.
The charges came to light during the first day of a process that began in January when an expert forensics investigator testified that the light they use to probe suspects' fingers under duress was linked to a phone that someone in the car with illegal narcotics had registered to belonged to the woman who allegedly stole the Uber taxi to the court. She also had an ID bag in her purse that another woman claimed belonged to the victim.
That eye-witness testimony came before the 16-person grand jury where the officers were charged. An independent panel convened in April to explain itself on the case. That panel found Gillum, Smith and Peard guilty and ordered charges be dismissed.
Even before that panel was assigned the case against Gillum, a fact has been brought to light that his comments to the city's police officer union on February 6, 2018, nearly two months before his arrest, contradicting the team leader who testified to the council.
Gillum told a speech show when he was questioned about allegations of racial profiling in his South Side post that the comments were taken out of context.
The FBI sued the team leader, the officer and prosecutor for civil rights violations. This information has not been released to the public.
The final charge against the officers is carrying an average of 24 months in prison and an $11,000 fine. Additional charges are expected to be filed in January and January.
