Title : Former Thunder Employee Charged In US Capitol Invasion

Original :
A former employee of the Oklahoma City Thunder NBA team is facing federal charges for allegedly storming the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6.
Danielle Nicole Doyle, 37, is charged in a four-count criminal complaint with knowingly entering a restricted building, knowingly engaging in disorderly conduct in a restricted building and two counts of violent entry on Capitol grounds.
She was taken into custody by the U.S. Marshal’s office and made an initial appearance last week in federal court in Oklahoma City, court records show. A judge set her bond at $10,000.
The Thunder confirmed Doyle worked for the team as an account manager until December 2020.
One of Doyle’s attorneys, Irven Box, said the four counts are all misdemeanors.
“She’s not charged with damaging anything in the Capitol or causing harm to anyone,” Box said. “She’s a fabulous young lady passionate about politics.”
According to an FBI agent’s affidavit, two of Doyle’s former co-workers told investigators they recognized her in video footage from the Capitol invasion. In one surveillance video, Doyle can be seen climbing through a Capitol window, according to the affidavit.
Doyle’s charges were first reported by The Oklahoman newspaper.
Doyle is the second Oklahoman to be charged in the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol by supporters of then-President Donald Trump. Andrew Craig Ericson, 23, of Muskogee was charged in January.

Generated :
A former federal prosecutor for the Federal Bureau of Investigation was arrested and charged in San Francisco on Monday for allegedly plotting to allegedly defraud the government of over $10 million in illegal proceeds from real estate loans.
Ally Carter-Cam, 31, and two co-defendants, Matthew Heimiel and Caleb Bertrand, were arrested by San Francisco police officers in November and released on $200,000 bail. Carter-Cam and Bueno were charged in a February news release with attempted perjury stemming from their alleged actions in a September 2007 federal election fraud investigation.
Founded in Brooklyn in 2001, The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is a not-for-profit arm of the Department of Justice (DOJ).
While serving as the assistant director in charge of criminal investigations at DOJ in Washington, D.C., Carter-Cam and authorities faced off against the FBI over their alleged alleged use of fraudulent housing bonds before they fled the country to legally practice law in the U.S.
According to the criminal complaint, Carter-Cam and his co-defendants falsified signatures on dozens of mortgages in the Mission District after real estate properties in the area could not produce a fair and accurate appraisal. Prosecutors allege Carter-Cam and Bueno also deceived federal regulators by falsely disclosing the potential income potential from such real estate loans.
Founded in 1998, The Federal Bureau of Investigation's Office of Fraud Prevention (OFFP) and Criminal Investigation (CID) is responsible for investigations in the United States, Canada, New Zealand, and Australia.
The FBI's Office of Counterintelligence, Lies, and Antitrust (OCI) filed an Enforcement Warrant (EEWA) in January 2015 in Washington, D.C. (4202) against Carter-Cam and Bueno in exchange for filing the federal fraud investigation.
In turn, the court granted the payment of $6.1 million in bail and summons, recorded in the judgment of Carter-Cam and Bueno before the federal court in San Francisco on Jan. 14, 2015.
