Title : ISTH STATEMENT ON ASTRAZENECA COVID-19 VACCINE AND THROMBOSIS

Original :
The International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis (ISTH) recommends that all eligible adults continue to receive their COVID-19 vaccinations, despite the recent decisions by Denmark, Norway and Iceland to at least temporarily suspend the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine due to reports of thrombosis.
At this time, the small number of reported thrombotic events relative to the millions of administered COVID-19 vaccinations does not suggest a direct link. Thrombotic events are common in the general population and have not previously been associated with vaccination. At present, we do not know whether the timing of the blood clots with vaccination is coincidental or whether vaccination may in rare cases increase the risk of thrombosis. Importantly, well-conducted clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccinations did not identify an increased risk of thrombosis.
Based on all available data, the ISTH believes that the benefits of COVID-19 vaccination strongly outweigh any potential complications even for patients with a history of blood clots or for those taking blood thinning medications. It also recommends that everyone review the signs and symptoms of blood clots, including: leg pain, swelling, tenderness or redness of the skin associated with deep vein thrombosis (DVT); as well as difficulty breathing, chest pain or discomfort, faster than normal or irregular heartbeat, coughing up blood and low blood pressure, light-headedness or fainting associated with pulmonary embolism (PE). Individuals with co-existing medical conditions may wish to consult their physician.
What does this mean for the patient community?
Based on currently available data, the ISTH believes that the benefits of COVID-19 vaccination   strongly outweigh any potential complications and recommends vaccination of all eligible adults.
The COVID-19 vaccine is given as an injection into the upper arm (intramuscular). Individuals taking direct oral anticoagulation (apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban and rivaroxaban), warfarin in therapeutic INR range, full dose heparin or fondaparinux injections can all receive the COVID-19 vaccination. Vaccinating prior to the next dose of anticoagulant may be considered rather than immediately after taking the blood thinner.
There is a risk of bruising at the injection site, but serious effects related to anticoagulation are not anticipated
Prolonged pressure (for at least 5 minutes) should be applied to the injection site to reduce bruising
Patients on warfarin with supra-therapeutic INR should wait until their INR is <4.0
We encourage patients to proceed with vaccination, which should not be avoided on the basis of anticoagulation
If there are any questions or concerns, individuals are urged to contact their health care provider.
The ISTH COVID-19 Response Task Force, represented by an international committee of medical leaders, made these recommendations following their meeting on March 11, 2021.
EDIT: A previous version of this release listed Austria as a country that had suspended the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine. Authorities only suspended the use of one batch.

Generated :
“For more than seven decades, AAA has promoted the popularity of ASTRAZENECA, an appropriate, over-the-counter therapy for migraine attacks.
“We have had some of the same concerns around ASTRAZENECA to our field team in other U.S. states recently. Those are head-on attacks that require thousands of hours of exercise and risk of paralysis.
“To solve these issues, We are investigating alternative solutions to these common migraine attacks. Our understanding of safe beta-agonist treatment is that you do not need to give it a placebo effect. There are no known treatments that provide the benefit for migraine but other options like radiation, muscle relaxants and painkillers could. All alternative methods have the benefit of preventing migraine progression.
“To provide safe, effective treatment, we ask that you consider the following advice: 1) prevention of migraine and to seek additional treatment for what may seem like a difficult disease, this is especially true with the potential to injure yourself, your family, your friends, your spouses and even your spouse and yourself. 2) postpartum depression is a great risk factor for migraines. 3) migraines may destroy a healthy response to medications like multiple medicines, so careful consideration is needed.”
“Both ARCs have been around since before the pharmacy became an important source of base-acid replacement injections for many years. In fact, GW Pharmaceuticals invested significant resources and money in making this possible by focusing on the ARCs that are available now, specifically: the ARC ZOMBIE. Because we are bringing the drug to the marketplace with an ARCZ-1-treated subcutaneous injection, we have been able to introduce this product into more American pharmacies. No one knows how many ARCs are in the US. 2) Balloonatin is already approved in China for acute acute migraines. The US Department of Health and Human Services will soon launch its private market soon to provide an additional source of additional treatment with Balloonatin. 3) Balloonatin is highly recommended as a treatment for the first 24/7 headaches. Our team will work closely with all of our national-level field service advisors to make Balloonatin available to more American pharmacies. We will be increasing our awareness and communicating the benefits of Balloonatin to their larger markets. As the pharmaceutical industry continues to grow rapidly, we will be continuing to make Balloonatin available to all pharmacies across the US. We will be diligently seeking other advanced treatments for these diseases to achieve the optimal results for our patients and to help future generations.”
