Title : U.S. election results | Joe Biden elected 46th President of the United States

Original :
Democratic candidate Joseph Robinette Biden Jr., was elected the 46th President of the United States on November 7, beating incumbent U.S. President Donald Trump, by securing more than the required 270 of 538 Electoral College votes needed to win the White House.
(Head over here for our live coverage of developments after Biden's win.)
Mr. Biden’s running mate, Kamala Devi Harris, a U.S. Senator from California, will become the first woman and first Indian- and African-American Vice-President of the country. Mr. Biden will inherit, from President Trump, a deeply divided country, battered by the coronavirus pandemic, facing high levels of unemployment and fraying race relations.
As news outlets — such as CNN, the Associated Press, and the New York Times — started projecting Mr. Biden as the winner, celebratory shouts, car horns and festive music was heard on the streets of Washington D.C. as Americans had waited more than three full days to hear who their next President would be. Similar celebrations were reported in other cities across the country including New York.
The win came as Mr. Biden, who was at 253 electoral college votes going into November 7, as per most news agencies, was projected to win Pennsylvania — a gain of 20 electoral votes. The Democratic candidate was ahead by over 34,000 votes in Pennsylvania on November 7 morning — too large a gap for Mr. Trump to bridge, based on the fact that the majority of mail-in ballots tend to be Democratic and based on the number of ballots Republican and Democratic counties had left to count.
Mr. Biden was also leading Mr. Trump, who had 214 electoral votes going into November 7, in other key swing States. Mr. Biden led Arizona (11 electoral votes) by more than 20,000 votes; Nevada (6) by over 25,000 votes; Georgia — which is likely heading for a recount — by over 7,000 votes. Mr. Trump led in North Carolina by over 76,000 votes.
“America, I’m honoured that you have chosen me to lead our great country. The work ahead of us will be hard, but I promise you this: I will be a President for all Americans — whether you voted for me or not. I will keep the faith that you have placed in me,” Mr. Biden said on Twitter, in his first public reaction to the news.
Mr. Biden, 77, is the oldest candidate ever elected to the White House. Trump, 74, has made as yet unsubstantiated claims of massive voter fraud, and his campaign has launched legal challenges in several states.
Mr. Biden spent eight years as vice president to Barack Obama. His victory comes in his third run for the nation's highest office.
Mr. Trump’s timeline on Twitter had a series of tweets covered by Twitter labels saying the tweets might be misleading with regard to the electoral process.
“I WON THIS ELECTION, BY A LOT!” Mr. Trump tweeted on November 7 before the news agencies had publicly called the results.

Generated :
HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) — Vice President Joe Biden took out his hat Friday and held off celebrating with supporters while campaigning for re-election, a victory for President Donald Trump in Pennsylvania.
At a rally with his wife and three children at Allegheny College in Harrisburg, Biden called his victory a triumph for “common sense” education and democracy. He also mentioned Trump, himself an admirer, and Vice President Mike Pence as successes.
“I put a forward-thinking vision for our nation,” Biden said. “I believed, along with Mike Pence, that the American people deserve a sound, balanced and responsible president.”
Biden also cited "conversations between our founders and the progressive values of our times," Biden said.
Trump’s election as president was as well-lauded by nearly all of his backers, as did Biden’s presidential bid. His two-minute speech was marred by misty-eyed cheering throughout the crowd at the Pennsylvania Statehouse, drawing boos, loud laughter and a thunderous ovation.
But many older generations of former Democratic Party members turned on Biden for making good on the promises he made to endear the nation to young people. Biden also championed his friend state Sen. Bill McKibben, in Massachusetts.
“The energy in the building came with Biden,” McKibben said in a telephone interview. “We could not have a more effective president. He brought a sense of energy and he gave us hope. We all shared in this election. We were united and hard-working and I think it was a great day.”
Voter turnout was up dramatically over the four decades between 1984 and 1988, according to elections officials. For all of the previous presidential campaign cycles in which voters turned out in record numbers, voter turnout fell in November when voters lacked or didn’t actively participate.
Polling posted online suggested that about half of likely voters cast ballots in November.
Biden won a campaign that transformed him from a former senator who couldn’t get elected president to a policy-oriented national policymaker who fought to get jobs back to the U.S. and to fight back against the National Rifle Association’s assault on Americans’ liberties.
He helped usher into existence the nonprofit National Rifle Association, which he said aided immigrants who came to the U.S. from other countries seeking refuge at the country’s borders.
Biden also touted his efforts to restore trust in U.S. laws — as did Trump, who campaigned on being a war hero, as a chance to build his presidency.
“I’ve been called a rapist, a felon, a dictator, and now a peace activist,” Trump said. “I want your votes.”
Democrats won back seats in the House, more than any other three-party Senate and four-seat governorships. They boosted their chances for re-election with 90 of the 138 electoral votes they won in their districts this fall.
In the state capital, Pittsburgh, on Friday, Trump traveled with campaign chairman Paul Manafort — a fundraiser he must compete with for the governor’s office in GOP-heavy Pennsylvania. A White House official was unable to immediately comment on Trump’s trip.
Manafort served a 10-year prison sentence in 1993 when he was indicted for money laundering. Manafort’s release from prison — in a maximum security prison, like hundreds of other prisoners released after the conviction — had not been widely publicized until his arrest in a Trump Tower-based bank.
Pence, under pressure to protect the president, joined Johnson to spend time with Democrats. Pence traveled with his wife, Jill.
In Boston, his wife, Jill Pence, addressed lawmakers at a small conference center, calling the president “the face of democracy.” She described him as a “visionary leader.”
While a speaker, Anthony Weiner had more energy in a speech of nearly unannounced sports terms. The former congressman who resigned last year was defeated by Democrat Catherine Cortez Masto. He called Rep. Steve Stockman, a Republican, “a desperate political pawn.” And he was depicted as more than a work for Clinton.
___
Associated Press writers Barbara Mays and Andrew Taylor in Washington, and Donna De Claire and Anne D’Agostino in Philadelphia contributed to this report.
