Title : Election 2020: Joe Biden leads President Donald Trump by 12 points in latest Fox News poll

Original :
In the wake of an economy hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic and nationwide unrest over racial injustice, Former Vice President Joe Biden leads President Donald Trump by a dozen points in the latest poll by Fox News.
Half of more than 1,300 registered voters polled by Fox News this week say they back Biden, compared to 38% supporting Trump. The 12-point margin is yet another jump from the longtime Delaware senator and likely Democratic presidential nominee, who has led in key battleground state polls and already had an 8-point lead when Fox News polled voters last month.
Voters surveyed by Fox News overwhelming said they disapproved of Trump’s handling of race relations — a focal point ever since the May 25 police killing of George Floyd sparked protests in dozens of cities across the country.
Nearly every demographic — white, Black, Hispanic, male and female, old and young, and those earning less, or more, than $50,000 — told Fox News pollsters they disapproved of Trump on race. The same was true among moderates and independents, and those living in urban, suburban and rural areas, suburban women and, albeit with a tighter margin, rural whites.
In battleground states, 60% of voters disapproved of the president on race relations, compared to 31% who backed him.
After being pushed for weeks to address systemic racism and police brutality while presenting himself as a “law and order” leader urging a crackdown on violence amid protests, Trump signed an executive order Tuesday calling for police reforms. The order did not go as far as Democratic lawmakers and advocates have pushed, but Trump’s plan will establish a national database of police misconduct, theoretically preventing officers from moving from department to department if they have a track record of complaints of aggressive behavior or excessive force.
The order also steers federal grants to police departments that seek certifications “that they meet high standards on the use of force and de-escalation training,” Trump said.
Fifty-three percent of voters disapproved of Trump on health care; 39% approved.
The economy, a cornerstone of his re-election campaign, still appeared to be Trump’s strong suit, according to Fox News. Forty-nine percent of voters back the president’s management of the economy, which is reopening in phases in almost every state after the coronavirus pandemic forced businesses and much of public life to shut down to prevent the outbreak from spreading further.
Fox News noted that many more Biden supporters, more than half of them, are partly driven by fear that Trump might win, whereas 62% of Trump supporters say they’re motivated by enthusiasm for their candidate as opposed to fear that the Democrat could win.
Fox News said that Biden’s support for more than a year has ranged from 42% to 52% in head-to-head polls against the president; Trump’s backing has ranged between 37% and 42%.
The president and his allies have frequently noted that his previous presidential foe, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, led in many national polls before an Electoral College defeat kept her from the White House.
Kellyanne Conway, White House counselor, told Fox News Thursday night that national polls “are a colossal waste of time and money.” She noted that in most statewide polls, both candidates are below 50% and within a few points of each other.
As of Thursday, Real Clear Politics polling averages show Biden leading in several key battleground states key to Trump’s victory of Clinton, including by 5.6 percentage points in Pennsylvania; 8.6 points in Michigan; and 5.4 points in Wisconsin.

Generated :
JOE BIDEN HAD a majority share of the vote among independent voters and independents, according to new Fox News race-by-race polls.
The poll followed an announcement Sunday by Vice President Joe Biden that he had won a three-way primary contest with New Jersey Senator Cory Booker in Florida’s Republican primary.
Biden had lost his majority bid for the presidency in 2016 when Trump took the extraordinary step of nominating former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.
But according to the Fox News poll, Biden was well ahead of Trump, running a surging pace in polls nationwide.
In the Republican primary, Trump topped Rep. Mick Mulvaney, R-S.C., in the first televised debate. Mulvaney got 33 percent of the vote in the Republican primary, but had 12 percent on the general election ballot.
Biden lost to Rep. Thad Cochran of Mississippi, who got 13 percent in the CNN/ORC/Marist polling average.
By contrast, Trump had 43 percent support among independents, compared with 11 percent for Joe Biden.
Still, the Democratic field has been light at best during his fall campaign against Sen. John McCain of Arizona. In the CNN/ORC/Marist poll, though, Trump had 40 percent support among Independents compared with 49 percent for Joe Biden.
The Democratic field includes Rep. Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii, D-Hawaii, and Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York.
The Fox News poll results went to CNN, which chose to put former FBI Director James Comey in its Democratic field.
Although the new poll had no mentions of Trump, it did mention him in Tuesday’s Fox News debate, which will give Democrats a short chance to connect with voters in the low-turnout August 19 primary.
Biden, in the CNN/ORC/Marist poll, finished with 64 percent of the vote. The Democrat lost the primary for which he was nominated three years ago by losing to Kentucky Senator Rand Paul (who carried Ohio).
Trump also finished ahead of Kentucky Sen. Mitch McConnell (who pulled within a point of Biden on his 1-in-10 vote).
