Title : Beirut explosion linked to London address used by shell company

Original :
Ownership of the deadly stockpile of ammonium nitrate that exploded last August in Beirut, killing over 200 people, has been traced back to a London address commonly used by shell companies, an investigation by Globe and Mail has found.
The London address, minutes away from Oxford Circus, belongs to a London-listed company called Savaro Ltd.
Read more: Vote of confidence for London as Deloitte office sold to Hong Kong real estate business for £255m
According to the paper trail, Savaro was the last owner of the ammonium nitrate which was abandoned at the Beirut port in November 2013. The owners of the stockpile never came for the products, which had an estimated value of around $700,000.
Experts have suggested that the London address was a way to legitimise Savaro, a suspected shell company.
Labour MP Margaret Hodge has said that the British government’s Department for Business had launched an inquiry to establish who the owners of Savaro are.
Hodge added that the company had been stopped from dissolving this year by the Beirut Bar Association who are investigating the London-listed company.

Generated :
Shares
, LONDON, Lebanon, Mar 2 – A blast at an office and a house in a prominent seafront tower in northern Lebanon – thought to be linked to the collapse of the three-storey Grenfell Tower – could have been the work of a British shell company, authorities said Thursday.
Photographs taken by a Dutch photographer showed debris from two different buildings – one in a street square and one in the hotel level – shooting onto a black background, as the tower in the central Dutch suburb of Addro was evacuated by air after a thick plume of smoke went up in smoke.
One of the black backgrounds appeared to be an item that resembled an explosive device, while the picture was taken a few minutes later at the Address Grenfell office in the Utrecht neighborhood of Beirut.
The firm’s chief executive Ferro “Der Boss” Neerd had reportedly ordered the emergency evacuation of a building in which victims became trapped and engulfed in flames.
A board of the town’s public administration — which had already been hearing reports of an explosion — has called an emergency cabinet meeting.
“Emergency crews were moved into an area to stabilise the building and evacuate injured people, but in the near future we will monitor the situation to ascertain what actions we will take,” property agent Mick Woodfield said, adding there was “no reason to panic”.
The tower collapsed as a result of a fire on the second floor, in a twist to the deadly event sparked by the fire.
Hopes in neighboring Lebanon that a clean-up operation would be planned quickly were dashed last month when it emerged that two hospitals were not responding to any injuries, frustrating for the authorities.
In an interview with ITV last week, Jordan’s foreign minister did not hesitate to say: “If there is a clean-up plan, it is in place.”
