Title : UN condemns US police killing of George Floyd

Original :
UN Human Rights chief Michelle Bachelet on Thursday condemned the death of a man at the hands of police, urging US authorities to take "serious action" to stop the killings of unarmed African Americans.
On Monday, 46-year-old restaurant worker George Floyd was handcuffed and placed on the ground by police officers outside of a store, when one of them pressed his knee on Floyd's neck for more than five uninterrupted minutes.
The moment was caught on video by a bystander, as a crowd gathered on the scene. In the video, Floyd is seen gasping for air and saying "I can't breathe," until he loses consciousness. He was then taken to a hospital and later declared dead.
All four police officers involved in the incident have been fired; an investigation is pending.
"This is the latest in a long line of killings of unarmed African Americans by US police officers and members of the public," Bachelet said, listing of several other high-profile cases of African American deaths at the hands of police and vigilantes.
"The US authorities must take serious action to stop such killings, and to ensure justice is done when they do occur. Procedures must change, prevention systems must be put in place, and above all police officers who resort to excessive use of force should be charged and convicted for the crimes committed," she said. "The role that entrenched and pervasive racial discrimination plays in such deaths must also be fully examined, properly recognized and dealt with."
FBI to investigate
Floyd's death has led to a growing national outcry on social media and on the streets, with two consecutive days of protests in Minneapolis including some looting and fires, with police using tear gas to disperse the crowd.
Political figures from both parties have also expressed their dismay over the man's death. President Donald Trump said on Wednesday that he had asked the FBI to "expedite" an investigation that had already begun.
Read more:  Erica Garner: 'These cops are still killing us'
US Attorney for Minnesota Erica MacDonald said in a joint statement with FBI officer-in-charge Rainer Drolshagen that the investigation into the case was now a "top priority."
"The federal investigation will determine whether the actions by the involved former Minneapolis Police Department officers violated federal law," the statement said. Local police have also apologized to Floyd's loved ones.
"I am absolutely sorry for the pain, devastation and the trauma that Mr. Floyd's death has left on his family, his loved ones and our community," Minneapolis Police Chief Medaria Arradondo said on Thursday.

Generated :
By Ian Simpson
UNITED NATIONS, May 29 (Reuters) - The United Nations human rights chief on Monday condemned Washington and U.S. President Donald Trump's police killings of two anti-Trump protesters in Florida and its alleged use of racial profiling to turn away protesters.
"The tragic civil unrest in Florida and Virginia last week raises the sense of urgency to review U.S. policies and international law to make them permanent," Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein said in a statement announcing his new report, "Sending a clear message: No matter what is at stake, we will not be cowed."
Trump's administration also ordered the deportation of a police officer after footage captured by an undercover reporter on an officer's gun circulated on social media. The footage, apparently taken during a police pursuit in a bid to dissuade pedestrians and other people from backing out of a march against the police killings in Ferguson, Missouri, was published by a Florida newspaper.
Speaking from Detroit, Jim Acosta, a CNN reporter, applauded the comments by Trump in a National Guard-supplied sign book in Saturday's protest in Florida, describing the officer who detained the two men as "very kind" and an "acute cop."
"They're getting some criticism," he said in an interview with the Detroit Free Press on Sunday.
Though Trump says he wants to see mass immigration illegal, he is prohibited from making pledges for executive order that will include mass deportations.
TARGETING THE RACE
Trump's first U.S. term was all about police tactics and killings in the Miami-Dade County, Florida, area. Several of the women and children who were present in the march later died, and several police officers were seriously injured.
In some of the eyes of many people in the audience, Trump "refused to do what was right," Al Hussein said, referring to the bias officers used.
Protesters marching on Sunday in Miami counter-demonstrated chanting, "Yo, Trump! Jesus! We killed Michael Brown! We found you, and you'll lose us!"
Hussein said that in his report, he also presented evidence that U.S. prosecutors indicted the two men on Tuesday for violating the terms of a search and seizure order, which put them in custody.
He described the decision to pursue the men as a failure of law enforcement and a clear attack on minorities.
"When they face criminal charges, such as aggravated assault, or other federal charges, the conviction by a federal prosecutor could be grounds for civil or criminal convictions," he said.
(Reporting by Ian Simpson in Washington; Additional reporting by Lesley Wroughton in Detroit; Editing by James Dalgleish and Bill Trott)
