Title : Older adults more apt to get COVID-19 reinfection, study finds

Original :
While uncommon, COVID-19 reinfections happen, especially in people 65 years and older—underscoring the importance of continued physical distancing and prioritization for vaccines even in previously infected people, a large observational study yesterday in The Lancet suggests.
Researchers at the Statens Serum Institut in Copenhagen, Denmark, analyzed data on 10.6 million SARS-CoV-2 tests from 4 million Danes (69% of the population) from that country's second COVID-19 surge, from Sep 1 to Dec 31, 2020. They then compared them with infection rates from residents with positive or negative tests during the first surge, March to May, 2020.
Before June 2020, 533,381 residents were tested, of whom 2.20% were positive for COVID-19. Of the 525,339 people eligible for follow-up during the second surge, 2.11% were infected during the first surge, and 0.65% tested positive again. In comparison, 3.27% of the 514,271 who had tested negative during the first surge were infected (adjusted relative risk [aRR], 0.195). Protection against reinfection was 80.5%.
An alternative cohort analysis of COVID-19 infection rates throughout the year in those with a previous infection versus without one 3 months previously or more generated similar estimates (aRR, 0.212), for a protection of 78.8%. Among residents 65 years and older, however, observed protection against reinfection was only 47.1%.
Older people, the researchers said, may be more likely to be reinfected due to age-related waning of immunity, disrupted coordination of coronavirus-specific T-cell responses, and scarcity of naïve T cells, which have been linked to aging and poor COVID-19 outcomes.
'Natural protection cannot be relied on'
There was no difference in estimated protection against reinfection by sex (78.4% in men vs 79.1% in women) or evidence of fading protection over time (79.3% at 3 to 6 months follow-up vs 77.7% at 7 months follow-up or more). The study involved only the original coronavirus strain; variants were not evaluated.
In a sensitivity analysis of a sample restricted to 15,604 physicians, nurses, social workers, and healthcare assistants, who were tested a median of 10 times in 2020, 658 (4.2%) of whom tested positive during the first surge. Of those 658, 1.2% were reinfected during the second surge, compared with 6.2% of those who tested negative during the first surge (aRR, 0.189; estimated protection against repeat infection, 81.1%).
"Because the older age group is more prone to a serious clinical course of illness, this finding highlights the need to implement protective measures for the older population in the form of effective vaccines and enhanced physical distancing and infection control, even in those known to be previously infected," they wrote.
Study coauthor Steen Ethelberg, PhD, said in a Lancet press release that their findings could inform policies about vaccination strategies and the relaxing of public health restrictions. "Since older people are also more likely to experience severe disease symptoms, and sadly die, our findings make clear how important it is to implement policies to protect the elderly during the pandemic," he said.
The authors said that a better understanding of the degree and length of protection, as well as the mechanisms of immunity, against repeat coronavirus infection is critical to formulating optimal intervention strategies. "Our data indicate that vaccination of previously infected individuals should be done because natural protection cannot be relied on," they wrote.
The release calls it the first large-scale study of its kind.
Vaccination is 'enduring solution'
In a commentary in the same journal, Rosemary Boyton, MBBS, and Daniel Altmann, PhD, of Imperial College London, said that the quality and durability of protection produced by natural COVID-19 infection are weaker than the higher concentrations of neutralizing antibodies generated by currently available vaccines—a finding complicated by coronavirus variants able to escape both natural and vaccine-induced immune response.
"Interestingly, vaccine responses even after single dose are substantially enhanced in individuals with a history of infection with SARS-CoV-2," they said. "These data are all confirmation, if it were needed, that for SARS-CoV-2 the hope of protective immunity through natural infections might not be within our reach, and a global vaccination programme with high efficacy vaccines is the enduring solution."

Generated :
Travelers with a household elderage who get COVID-19 protection from the risk of infectious disease and other life-threatening diseases may be at increased risk, according to a new study.
People aged 85 and over who are older than 55 are more likely to get infectious disease and other life-threatening diseases, especially in the middle and early years, the study by UC San Diego found.
A YOUNG WOMAN IN THE U.S.
Citizens of the country are at high risk from cancer, Alzheimer’s disease, heart disease, cancer, and a host of other life-threatening diseases, according to the American Cancer Society.
The researchers from UC San Diego School of Medicine and the University of California-Davis said their findings suggest that younger people are at a higher risk of disease from infection, older people with diabetes, and developing dementia.
“What we found most directly correlated with younger people's risk is that the older they are, the more likely they are to develop disease later in life,” said UC San Diego Professor of Pediatrics Linda Ella Hahn.
“So who knows, maybe they will acquire dementia, or diabetes?”
“There's nothing really wrong with young people getting your preventative care at a younger age and being there to keep the world from becoming a zombie.” Dr. Jane Troop, lead researcher of the study, said.
“This study comes at a time when more people are becoming ill,” she said. “As we heal from our wounds, age and disability, people can adapt and become better people.”
INHUMAN SURGE
The study, published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, showed that people who report being ill at first are more likely to develop cancer, diabetes, heart disease, and dementia.
In the years when people go to see their doctor at least once a month, the number of times they go to see their doctor in the workplace increased.
“We are seeing healthier folks,” said Dr. Jay Heffernan, the professor who conducted the study.
“People become a little older and they seek advice more frequently when the doctor's phone rings. They're able to extend that advice into their work.”
“The UC San Diego study suggests that older adults have a much greater risk of developing cancer, diabetes, heart disease, Alzheimer's disease, and other life-threatening diseases.” Dr. Elizabeth Fuchsberg,
Associate Director of the University's Center for Health Policy and Socio-Financial Studies, said the data supports the hypothesis that older adults have a higher risk of aging-related diseases such as cancer and heart disease.
“This study shows that older adults have a higher risk of developing cancer, diabetes, heart disease, Alzheimer's disease, and other life-threatening diseases, particularly in the middle and early years,” Dr. David Steckel, a co-author of the study, said.
Steckel said young people's progress toward better health can be gauged with healthy lifestyles and a healthy family life.
“We think that older adults have greater resilience to some of the stuff we do on a regular basis,” Steckel said.
“It’s pretty important for younger people to have more proactive health care.”
BACK TO PREVENTION
UC San Diego researchers also concluded that younger people tend to improve their health as well, and that four out of five live long lives.
Most of the problems remain: For some, family problems and social isolation prevents them from getting well; for others, depression leads to self-harm; and for some, illnesses such as heart disease and diabetes are a growing reason to live longer than previously thought.
The study demonstrated a need for programs that are critical to prevent heart disease, but not enough already are available to encourage healthy living, Steckel said.
“We have both (intentional) safeguards and regulatory agencies that are not making the right noises about responsible care,” Dr. Barron Douthat, author of the paper and professor of cardiology, said.
