Title : Ohio resident accused of storming the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 in support of Trump

Original :
Federal authorities say a Bucyrus man breached the U.S. Capitol and joined a large crowd trolling the hallways Jan. 6 in support of then-President Donald Trump.
The charges against Ethan Seitz, 31, were unsealed late Friday. He is accused of knowingly entering a restricted building and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds. A federal magistrate in Akron transferred his case to U.S. District Court in Washington, D.C.
He is free on bond. Attempts to reach his attorney, Nathan Ray, and Seitz’s family members were unsuccessful.
A week after the siege, two cooperating witnesses told authorities that Seitz took part in the attack, according to an affidavit by FBI agent John Minichello. Facebook posts included photos and videos of Seitz’s progress as he passed police barricades and made his way into the Capitol, the affidavit shows.
Seitz is accused of joining thousands at the Capitol on the same day both chambers of Congress certified Joe Biden the winner of the November presidential election.
Many attended the “Stop the Steal” rally, held near the Capitol, that saw Trump give a heated speech that criticized Vice President Mike Pence for refusing to interfere with the largely ceremonial certification process. Video captured people chanting, “Hang Mike Pence.”
Pence and lawmakers evacuated the House and Senate chambers as insurrectionists ran through the building taking videos and pictures of themselves. Five people, including Brian Sicknick, a Capitol police officer, died in the riot.
The Facebook posts say Seitz and others went to Washington to send a message to lawmakers, according to the affidavit.
“There is a militia here that wants to storm the Capitol and take the building after Trump’s speech,” Seitz said in a message Jan. 6. Later, he chronicled his movements online, the document says.
“I’m going in the Capitol,” the FBI affidavit quoted Seitz as posting online. “I just climbed through a broken window.”
Internal security cameras “appear to clearly depict Seitz inside the Capitol rotunda and connecting hallways during the invasion of the Capitol on Jan. 6,” according to the document.
In a Facebook message, Seitz wrote: “The patriots in D.C. were here to show WE THE PEOPLE will not allow our country to be stolen,” according to the affidavit.
He said he confronted police and had “been gassed two or three times, and pepper-sprayed. I had to climb back out. I couldn’t breathe,” the FBI document says.
In another message, the affidavit says, Seitz described what he had done in the Capitol: “I didn’t break no laws. I didn’t destroy anything or hurt anybody. I didn’t even steal anything, which was really hard for me.”

Generated :
A woman accused of beating up an Ohio inmate during the arrest in the FBI's investigation into the Feb. 5 shooting death of another Ohioan has been charged in a federal court.
U.S. District Judge Luis Gutierrez in Cleveland on Wednesday ordered Brandon C. Carpenter to face a mandatory minimum sentence of four years in prison, but he is unlikely to impose it. Carpenter, 41, faces a list of charges including obstruction of justice, hindering prosecution and intentionally causing great bodily harm.
Barrister Bradley Dusek, one of two women accused of beating up the state's third-highest court building on Feb. 5 in a search for evidence of a planned attack at the building's lobby, told Gutierrez on Wednesday that Carpenter had occupied the building illegally since Feb. 2 and never gave him enough food or water for 72 hours during the stop-and-frisk program, which has been going on at the Capitol for years. He said she had no place to be holding hands.
Carpenter is accused of beating a man at the courthouse in a contentious and long-running case for President Donald Trump and the Democratic-leaning state of Ohio. Baker County prosecutors last week brought the case against Carpenter, but they were charged a few weeks later, in part because they obtained a warrant for Carpenter's arrest from the FBI.
Carpenter was charged by federal authorities after receiving a three-day warrant on a charge of obstructing justice and later aggravated robbery. His attorney, Glen Hershey, could not be reached for comment.
Carpenter worked in Akron and was recommended to be barred by a Cleveland police officer during a welfare check as a security guard at the Federal Plaza, Judge Gutierrez said. Carpenter has said he was falsely arrested there, that he had volunteered at a service center and then got kicked out for allegedly having an anti-government policy at the venue.
He was taken into custody and federal agents handcuffed him while his voice wavering with calm.
The Washington Post first reported on Wednesday that Carpenter is accused of knocking a judge out of his tiny cell, saying, "Trump is not now."
U.S. Justice Department officials have said the charges are part of an ongoing federal investigation into the culture and practices of America's police forces and whether they are helping to destroy evidence of alleged systemic abuse at the Capitol and other institutions.
Carpenter had also been accused of beating up a local police officer in 2013 and allegedly assaulting the mayor of the Ohio City, Ohio, city councilman Ian Ryle earlier this year.
Judge Gutierrez on Wednesday ordered Carpenter and the other women not to seek rehabilitation at any treatment facilities or private treatment centers. He also said he would consider if Carpenter applies for a federal hate crime program.
Monday's indictment accused Carpenter and Dusek of falsely accusing the judge of creating a "high risk environment" for people on his watch.
Carpenter appeared in court with a mugshot, saying he had been drinking and had stopped by the Washington D.C. address of a relative before the 2013 attack.
Both women were appointed by President George W. Bush to federal high-level criminal complaints panels based in Washington. The Fifth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals earlier this month ruled against Carpenter, ordering her not to plead guilty to criminal charges.
__
Special to the Akron Beacon Journal
___
Follow Bryan Kirkpatrick on Twitter at @bryankirkpatrick
