Title : Two police body cameras capture the struggle leading to George Floyd's death

Original :
Police body camera footage showing Minneapolis police pointing a gun at George Floyd and struggling with him during his fatal arrest was released by the court on Monday.
CNN was permitted last month to view, but not air, the May 25 footage. Eleven weeks after Floyd's killing, protesters continue to take their anger to the streets of American cities.
The footage, roughly an hour in length, comes from the body cameras of former officers Thomas Lane and J. Alexander Kueng, who were the first to respond to a store where Floyd was accused of passing a fake $20 bill.
About 36 seconds after speaking to a store employee, the officers are outside the vehicle Floyd is driving. Lane trains his handgun on Floyd telling him, "Put your f**king hands up right now!" Floyd pleads with officers, sobbing, at one point putting his head on the steering wheel.
Officer watching Floyd's death: I felt the same agony you felt 03:50
Around three minutes into the video, the officers forcibly pull Floyd from the car and handcuff him. Another struggle ensues when Lane and Kueng attempt to put Floyd in a police SUV.
Kueng tries to push Floyd in through a back door of the SUV, while Lane pulls him from the opposite door. Floyd is yelling throughout and says, "I can't breathe" for the first time during the encounter.
Floyd falls out of the vehicle on Lane's side as two more policemen, Tou Thao and Derek Chauvin, arrive and assist in restraining Floyd. The 46-year-old hits the ground alongside the vehicle, the position he was in when 17-year-old Darnella Frazier began filming his final moments.
Roughly 11 minutes and 23 seconds into Lane's body camera video, Chauvin places his knee on Floyd's neck. He's already been cuffed for about eight minutes.
An officer told George Floyd it took &#39;a lot of oxygen to talk,&#39; body camera transcripts show
An officer told George Floyd it took 'a lot of oxygen to talk,' body camera transcripts show
Around 16 minutes into the footage, Floyd utters his final words: "Man, I can't breathe." Paramedics arrive about nine minutes after Chauvin puts his knee on Floyd's neck. A minute later, he is limp and paramedics load him onto a gurney.
The Minneapolis Police Department previously said it was not releasing the footage because it was part of an investigation into the officers' response.
Lane's attorney filed the footage in court last month as evidence supporting a motion to dismiss the charges against his client. Only transcripts from the tape were made public. Hennepin County District Judge Peter Cahill then allowed the media to view it.
Media outlets, including CNN, filed a motion calling for the release of the videos, but Cahill initially declined the request.
Floyd died after Chauvin knelt on Floyd's neck for nearly eight minutes. Lane and Kueng helped restrain Floyd as Thao stood between the officers and angry onlookers.
Chauvin is charged with second-degree murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter. Lane, Kueng and Thao are charged with aiding and abetting second-degree murder and aiding and abetting second-degree manslaughter. All four officers were fired.
Chauvin's attorney declined to comment when CNN viewed the footage in July. None of the officers has entered a plea, but Thao's and Lane's attorneys have requested their clients' cases be dismissed, and Kueng intends to plead not guilty, his attorney said.
Lane's attorney, Earl Gray, says Lane asked twice if Floyd should be moved to his side, but Chauvin, a veteran, told Lane that Floyd was fine and to keep him there till an ambulance arrived, according to a court motion.
Lane didn't see any "visible intentional infliction of harm," felt restraining Floyd was justified and wasn't aware Chauvin was committing a crime, the motion says.

Generated :
Britain's new £2m body cameras are partly owned by insurers and are the subject of widespread concern.
One British broadcaster has obtained footage of the two police body cameras, from which the video footage is shown, that show police officers around a beat and injured man.
"I saw the Crown Prosecution Service making a deal with the two self-storage vehicles, which was wrong," Reporters Without Borders senior reporter Hugh Bronsell said.
The U.K. country's first shot at the full force of modern surveillance is being broadcast live, while privately owned vehicles are being placed behind bars to protect essential public safety
"It was wrong."
Eyewitnesses say the man, George Floyd, walked onto the pavement, his neck had been cut off and he was suffering life-threatening injuries, but was taken away on stretchers in a black SUV to a nearby hospital.
When BPR calls on the "live" cameras to try to identify the man's whereabouts, the police officers walk past the car; it is dropped off by private company PWR and then displayed on the dashboard. There is no indication the camera is being used in future police forces.
"Rescuers and officers are not supposed to be being photographed under their arms but at that moment PWR stands up and leaves a black SUV," Heritage Action Chief Executive Yvonne Gill said.
The pictures show the officer walking away, but when a PWR finds that is not enough, then video footage is released of the man being taken away and continued on to the camera because he could not be secured.
The White House said it would investigate whether the camera footage, which can be recorded from a distance by either police or private company, had been used in the 20th anniversary of the Stonewall riots, a city of gay, black and other minorities.
The Family Safety Council's charity in London called on the police to immediately delete the tapes because they could cause "undesirable damage to society".
That said, a spokeswoman for PWR said it was with regret to release the footage after reviewing reports of social media posts from the man's family.
White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions "has every right to review reports of excessive force and justify them by saying they are 'antiquated', and to have extraordinary evidence to back up his claim.
"The video footage released has already showed reasonable doubt and it is our government's obligation to challenge Mr Justice Cohen's decisions to hold those officers accountable for their actions."
A spokesperson for the North East Counter Terrorism Command said: "The video footage appears to show an officer shooting another force member when the man walked onto the pavement. The only difference is that the officer shooting immediately enters the pavement with the man outside of his vehicle which may have caused the incident."
Graham Brady, a south east specialist for the Foreign Office, said: "We are in need of more clarity on the law enforcement side of this issue and given the huge public outcry at the media coverage of this issue, why do we not change our practice as a police force?"
Meanwhile a number of councillors and officers from across the country have taken to social media to denounce police use of their cameras.
