Title : House impeachment manager Eric Swalwell sues Trump, Giuliani for allegedly inciting Capitol riot

Original :
Rep. Eric Swalwell, one of the House prosecutors during Donald Trump’s second impeachment trial, filed a lawsuit Friday against the former president, alleging he incited the deadly invasion of the U.S. Capitol.
The civil lawsuit from Swalwell, D-Calif., also accuses Donald Trump Jr., Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani and Rep. Mo Brooks, R-Ala., of being “wholly responsible for the injury and destruction” caused by the mob.
Swalwell’s 65-page lawsuit accuses the defendants of conspiring to block President Joe Biden’s election victory, inciting the Jan. 6 riot, aiding and abetting common-law assault, committing bias-related crimes, intentionally inflicting emotional distress and negligence.
The congressman demands a trial by jury in U.S. District Court in Washington.
The Senate last month acquitted Trump of one article of inciting the insurrection at the Capitol, which resulted in five deaths and forced a joint session of Congress into hiding.
Before the pro-Trump mob stormed the building, Trump held a rally outside the White House, where he repeated a slew of unfounded election-theft conspiracy claims and heaped pressure on Republicans to reject Biden’s victory. Trump Jr., Giuliani and Brooks also spoke at the “Stop the Steal” rally.
House managers, led by Jamie Raskin, D-Md., argued that Trump directly fomented the violence exhibited by his supporters. They failed to persuade two-thirds of the Senate, which is split between Republicans and Democrats, to vote to convict the former president.
Asked for comment on the lawsuit, Trump spokesman Jason Miller replied with a string of insults about Swalwell and accused him of “attacking our greatest President with yet another witch hunt.”
Giuliani did not immediately respond to CNBC’s request for comment on the suit. Swalwell’s legal complaint repeatedly points out that Giuliani declared, “Let’s have trial by combat!” in his speech to the pre-riot rally crowd on Jan. 6.
The lawsuit also cites comments made during that rally by Brooks. The Alabama congressman “told the crowd to start ‘kicking ass,‘” the court filing says, “and he spoke with reverence, at a purportedly peaceful demonstration, of how ‘our ancestors sacrificed their blood, sweat, their tears, their fortunes, and sometimes their lives,’ before shouting at the crowd ‘Are you willing to do the same?!’”
Swalwell’s lawsuit argues that Brooks “intended these words as a threat of violence or intimidation to block the certification vote from even occurring and/or to coerce members of Congress to disregard the results of the election.”
Brooks, in a statement to CNBC, said “I make no apologies whatsoever for fighting for accurate and honest elections.”
“In sum, I wear Communist-sympathizer Swalwell’s scurrilous and malicious lawsuit like a badge of courage,” Brooks’ statement said. “Under no circumstances will Swalwell, or any other Socialist, stop me from fighting for America.”
Swalwell’s legal action is the second lawsuit from a sitting member of Congress to blame Trump for inciting the deadly riot.
House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., and the NAACP last month filed their own suit against Trump and Giuliani, accusing them of conspiring to stop Congress from confirming Biden’s win.
Both lawsuits cite sections of the Ku Klux Klan Act of 1871, intended to protect against political violence and intimidation.
Thompson’s lawsuit also names as defendants the Proud Boys and the Oath Keepers, two groups whose members are known to have been among the thousands who stormed the Capitol complex.
Swalwell’s lawsuit argues that the mob attacked the Capitol “as a direct and foreseeable consequence of the Defendants’ false and incendiary allegations of fraud and theft, and in direct response to the Defendants’ express calls for violence at the rally.”
The managers had made the same argument in Trump’s second impeachment trial, much of which centered around whether it was constitutional to convict a former president. Many Republicans focused on that procedural issue, rather than try to defend Trump’s conduct explicitly.
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said after the trial that Trump is “still liable for everything he did while he was in office.”
“He didn’t get away with anything, yet,” said McConnell, who voted to acquit Trump.

Generated :
House impeachment manager Eric Swalwell filed suit against Trump and his top adviser Rudy Giuliani on Monday alleging that “Perception and Process” at the White House sought to undermine his impeachment efforts.
Schramm claimed in the suit that Trump and Giuliani “actively harassed and intimidated” his fellow Republicans who believed he was “acting illegally.” Trump is one of several sitting presidents who have been charged or impeached by the House. Swalwell, whose legal case stems from allegations that he allegedly used his White House position to intimidate Republicans, also alleged he was threatened and assaulted.
Swalwell’s suit does not allege any reason for the delay of his impeachment proceedings. As such, the suit does not take on any direct allegations against any individual, including the President.
The suit, filed in U.S. District Court in Washington by attorney Hector Caputo, states that, within days of the Senate impeachment hearing last December, Joseph “Lunny” Yates, Giuliani’s chief of staff, and New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio became aware that Swalwell had “made it clear to his subordinates that it was impossible for them to stop him from interfering in the members’ plans regarding the president.”
According to the suit, “While describing the process for moving forward with the impeachment plan, Mr. Yates stated that if Mr. Swalwell returned to the office, within 24 hours there would be an investigation and discussions would begin to ‘drain the swamp’ in the Trump Administration, adding that ‘[F]e with his attorneys, Mr. Swalwell had changed his mind about calling for the impeachment hearing and should have since returned to the office, increased his working schedule, and created the appearance of favoritism and cover-up.’”
In response, Swalwell claimed in his lawsuit that he was “privately interrogated by aides and operatives and his staffers were terrorized and intimidated.”
He said, “All of the information suggesting these threats were true were rejected by the Obama Administration under pressure from then-FBI Director James Comey, who stated in his testimony to Congress that ‘Mr. Swalwell was under pressure to resign,’ while some of the information suggesting that Mr. Swalwell was under pressure to resign came from people who were members of the White House who appeared to be wishing for Mr. Swalwell to resign.”
By a vote of 70-1, the House Judiciary Committee voted against Swalwell’s impeachment with no comments on his suit or his complaint, and the case is still pending, according to the Washington Post.
Swalwell was named by Trump’s former legal director as a defendant in the Senate’s impeachment review of Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign. Lewandowski was fired on Feb. 15 over the trade-shrimping administration’s retaliation against ABC News host Antenna Media.
As of late last week, as of Friday morning, Swalwell had not filed a motion against Donald Trump for the impeachment hearing.
But in addition to his first lawsuit, Swalwell filed a second suit seeking as much as $50 million.
