Title : MEPs share concerns about COVID-19 variants

Original :
On Monday, Members of the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety Committee debated with experts on the efficacy of vaccines against mutations of the COVID-19 virus.
Representatives from the European Medicines Agency (EMA), the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) and the World Health Organisation (WHO) updated MEPs on the state of play of existing COVID-19 variants. They shared information regarding how effective authorised vaccines are against different variants, and discussed global challenges and the need for a global coordinated response to addressing variants.
MEPs expressed their concerns regarding fast-spreading variants, especially given the vaccination rate across the EU remains lower than expected. They lamented the lack of data available on the efficacy of administered vaccines. Certain member states have a low or no capacity to analyse virus samples (“genomic sequencing”), many MEPs said, which means the spread of variants and their impact cannot be adequately monitored. Members also quizzed the experts on the authorisation process for updated vaccines, on the role of vaccination certificates, and on the safety and side effects of existing vaccines.
During the meeting, Commission Deputy Director-General for Health Pierre Delsaux presented the Commission’s communication on the HERA Incubator, a project designed to monitor variants, exchange data and cooperate on adapting vaccines. The Commission has proposed to amend the current regulatory procedure in order to allow for COVID-19 vaccines that are adapted to new variants to be approved more quickly.
You can watch the recording of the debate here and the video statement of Committee Chair, Pascal Canfin (Renew, FR) here.
Background
All viruses – including SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19 – evolve over time. These changes are called “mutations”. A virus with one or more new mutations is referred to as a “variant” of the original virus. The ECDC’s latest risk assessment states that variants are more easily transmitted and more severe. Existing licensed COVID-19 vaccines may therefore be only partially effective or significantly less effective against a variant. For this reason, the risk associated with further spread of COVID-19 is currently assessed as “high to very high”.
According to the WHO, COVID-19 vaccines currently being developed or already approved are expected to provide at least some protection against new variants of the virus. In the event that any of these vaccines prove to be less effective against one or more variants, the composition of the vaccines can be adapted to protect against these variants.

Generated :
PMASU MP Ian Kelly told MPs he has concerns about the new technical specifications for the SA nuclear power portfolio.
Short answer: it’s too early to tell what these controls mean, but these sort of controls have implications for Australia. While we live in an age where blanket blanket blanket blanket filters consume most of our nuclear energy needs — an extraordinarily oversaturated energy resource in Australia, but by far the largest market for nuclear — there needs to be some controls in place to assure this is a fair market for these powerhouses.
The regulators are already predicting COVID-19 will need approval. We know whether engineers will even begin to get permission for the first phase of the plan in December. The safety balance must also be clarified. A five-year plan for building the first phase is more likely than a nine-year plan, but there’s simply no intention to do this over the next three years, because the build will ensure it is by a more likely time frame.
But we also know there’s a strong chance the risk of this burst of uncertainty will quickly come to pass. The sole purpose of a plan isn’t to protect everyone from a burst of uncertainty, it’s to make sure we keep that option as open as possible. Ideally, there’s some way that any planned level-one, peak-power-generating regime will be longer-lasting than the five-year plan.
A lighter emissions trading scheme means fewer restrictions on power-generating capacity, and they always mean deeper cuts to Australia’s carbon footprint. If there’s a room built in for COVID-19, it has to include a replacement rule governing the removal of high carbon volumes from the power grid, which is the true shock absorber when a burst of bad, uncontrolled power-plant results.
Countries that want to reduce emissions from power-generating capacity can appoint a COVID-19 independent administrator and submit their own plans for the design of the first phase. A regulation specifying specific ways that other states, the Federal Government and industry should ensure that all proposals receive these rules is an accurate reflection of the reality. The regulatory and commercial benefits to the electricity market will also need to be understood.
