Title : Prosecutors want to charge four officers with third-degree murder in George Floyd's death

Original :
Prosecutors are seeking to add third-degree murder charges against four former Minneapolis police officers in the death of George Floyd.
Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison filed the motion on Thursday.
Former officer Derek Chauvin was initially charged with second-degree unintentional murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter for his role in Floyd's May death.
But Chauvin's attorney succeeded in getting the third-degree murder charge dismissed for lack of probable cause because it could only be applied "in situations in which the defendant's actions ... were not specifically directed at that particular person whose death occurred," the motion states.
Ellison, however, argued that the state's Court of Appeals recently upheld a third-degree murder charge against former officer Mohamed Noor in a case involving the shooting death of Justine Ruszczyk Damond.
The appeals court ruled in Noor's case that "third-degree murder may occur even if the death-causing act endangered only one person," according to the motion.
"Because the decision in Noor is precedential and now provides this court with clear guidance regarding the elements of third-degree murder, the State respectfully requests that the court reinstate the third-degree murder charge," the motion reads.
Ellison is asking that third-degree murder either be reinstated for Chauvin or that his complaint be amended to include the charge.
Thomas Lane,J. Alexander Kueng
Former Minneapolis Police officers Thomas Lane, right, and J. Alexander Kueng, second from right, are escorted out of the Hennepin County Family Justice Center on Sept. 11, 2020, in Minneapolis, after a hearing for the four Minneapolis police officers who are charged in the death of George Floyd.Jim Mone / AP file
The attorney general also wants the charge included on the amended complaints against the other three officers: Tou Thao, Thomas Lane and J. Alexander Kueng. They are currently charged with aiding and abetting murder as well as aiding and abetting manslaughter.
Attorneys for all four officers did not immediately return a request for comment on Friday.

Generated :
× Prosecutors want to charge four officers with third-degree murder in George Floyd’s death
PROVIDENCE, R.I. (WPRI) — Two of the four police officers charged with murder for George Floyd’s death in November are set to appear in court for a murder charge on Feb. 26.
Lawyers for Rhode Island Gov. Gina Raimondo and the Attorney General’s Office previously announced that they intend to seek a re-trial of two of the officers charged in Floyd’s death. The second officer is scheduled to be arraigned on Feb. 26 in Superior Court.
In November, Raimondo called for the state to pursue charges against the officers involved in Floyd’s killing.
“Instead of arresting the officers who carried out Mr. Floyd’s brutal and senseless murder, how can we arrest the officers who acted in self-defense? To keep this national outrage alive, it would be less tragic and more tragic for the innocent people of Rhode Island to die in their homes like this,” Raimondo said in a written statement, referencing Floyd’s death.
Prosecutors have requested charges be filed against four State Police officers linked to Floyd’s death. The alleged offenses include one count of gross misdemeanor murder, two counts of assault and battery, one count of additional charges of interfering with a law enforcement officer, assault, battery and endangerment.
The call for a re-trial of the officers, some of whom were formerly with the State Police, has been a largely non-starter.
But a trio of high-profile defendants, George Michael McGrath, Chris Mattock and Steve Whitmore, have also been active in the recent “vivisection of life” debate: time for a makeover, free contraceptives, change in public policies and a public amnesty for public school teachers convicted of criminal offenses.
The hope has been that a new set of guidelines for negotiations would result in a retrial. According to the wrongful-death bill introduced by state Rep. Judy Harper on Feb. 3, police would have to prove that “the reasonable person had the capacity to force themselves to kill another human being,” then able to identify what action required their intervention.
Bradley Engel, the state’s attorney in both cases, is expected to argue there are grounds for “clear and convincing evidence” to prove that McGrath and Mattock acted in self-defense. That is “an unprecedented issue that requires solving,” he said in a statement, adding that the charges “must be clearly and unambiguous.”
“It’s a clear disregard for the principle of due process and to answer any reasonable question is tantamount to murder,” he said.
A Rhode Island State Police spokeswoman didn’t respond to requests for comment, but pointed to the precedent for the case before approving the guidelines, stating “We are confident that, if used properly, this latest announcement would avoid the awkward and bitter legal process that characterized the commonwealth as a matter of monumental importance, and would provide more opportunity for clarity and clarification of the charges.”
