Title : It's still amazing to me that Biden is president

Original :
Joe Biden’s presidential campaign was stunning. He shattered Barack Obama’s 2012 vote record with 15 million more votes. Biden’s impressive performance calls into question whether it was Biden who pulled Obama across the finish lines in 2008 and 2012.
Hillary Clinton’s 2016 totals beat Biden in every urban county in the United States; yet he outperformed her in the metropolitan areas of Georgia, Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania.
President Trump, with over 74 million votes, beat previous sitting presidents’ records; however, that wasn’t enough to beat Joe Biden, the new record holder.
Proving how sharp his political instincts are, the former vice president managed to gather a record number of votes while consistently trailing President Trump in measures of voter enthusiasm. Biden also secured record-breaking vote totals despite Democrats’ general failures in local house and state legislative seats across the nation.
The Cook political report and The New York Times rated 27 house seats as toss-ups going into Election Day. The Republicans won all 27.
Democrats failed to flip a single state house chamber, while Republicans flipped both the House and Senate in New Hampshire and expanded their dominance of state legislatures across the country.
Ohio and Florida have consistently predicted the national outcome. Biden again beat the odds becoming the first president in 60 years to lose these states and still win.
Have you heard about “Bellwether Counties?” It’s a list of 20 counties in the United States that have accurately predicted 100 percent the winner of the presidential election continuously for 40 years. The Wall Street Journal and The Epoch Times independently analyzed the results of these counties.
What if I told you that Trump won 19 of these 20 counties this time around? Amazingly, in spite of badly losing these bellwether counties, Biden was able to do what no other presidential candidate had been capable of — lose in almost every bellwether county across the country and still win.
Donald Trump was pretty much the only incumbent president in U.S. history to lose his reelection while his own party gained seats in the House of Representatives. Now that’s a Biden miracle.
To have pulled so many rabbits out of his hat, nobody can deny that Biden is a first-rate campaigner and politician.
These tremendous achievements would normally receive complete analysis from the media, yet not only have they gone mostly unmentioned, all attempts to examine the voting records have been blocked and any use of the words “election fraud” will get you kicked off social media platforms.
America became the greatest democracy the world has ever known. Cancel culture is redefining America in our schools and in our lives. I don’t know what that will look like, but for millions of Americans there’s neither freedom of speech nor trust in the election process. That’s not freedom; that’s a disaster.
Remember, Rome burned while Nero fiddled, proving that great empires can, and do, fall.

Generated :
Here's the scoop from the Huffington Post that Democrats, Republicans and their wavering GOP rivals are really relieved. The two big factions of the nation's political football showered Biden on Saturday, capping off a successful weekend of alternatingly speaking and hearing speeches, announcing and hosting many interesting exchanges. Some of the most fascinating exchanges took place on the platform. Here's where they all ended:
In the pages of national newspapers Saturday, Biden made his first truly presidential speech in his 52-year career, vowing to bring "positive change" to Washington, pledging to fight for progressive legislation and to help the middle class.
"I have a vision for this country -- a country that reflects the values of real Americans. The next step for Democrats and Republicans is to create a movement to get the best out of the economy," he said.
Biden didn't just talk about his progressive credentials and the role that running an executive branch can play in a complex balancing act. He said that he will push for net neutrality protections and backed measures to protect Americans' civil liberties. He also emphasized the importance of the 25% of the population that is African-American, a voter bulwark against big government.
"I am willing to do everything in my power to help you see things that are better for all Americans in America," he said.
Across the party spectrum, he said what was best for the country was not whether President Donald Trump was President, but rather how they could unite across economic and social barriers, including efforts to stabilize the nation's budget and thwart terrorism. He urged Democrats to work with Republicans to "fix" the immigration system to be shared, but he noted that Democrats must have "flexibility and strength" and that "the deal of the century" is "probably even weaker" than Trump's deal would have been.
Across the road from him, Sen. Bernie Sanders was embracing Obamacare, saying he wasn't focused on something that would hurt the people most in need. He promised to "start from scratch" on some of the policies Democrats had been pushing in his bid for the presidency but added that "you have to push back to make sure all Americans are taken care of."
Speaking at both events, Kasich, his rival for the GOP nomination and the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, tried to recapture the party's expectations. Speaking in a swing state, he lamented the ideological difference between the Republican and Democratic nominees and said he would "step up" to fight what he called "negativity" when it comes to the high Medicare costs. Kasich added that he wants to eliminate the mandate for insurance plans to cover the cost of medical care, making it more affordable, starting by creating incentives for people to buy coverage, he said.
On the other side of the aisle, Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) offered a policy proposal. He said a proposed framework for reforming Medicare, which Trump has rejected, would allow members of Congress to retain "coastal benefits, cover the cost of child care and don't discriminate" against doctors.
Kentucky Gov. Steve Beshear didn't stand out in the small Texas town of St. Louis Saturday, underlining the GOP frontrunner's weakness on small-town issues like health care.
Benedict Cruz, the president's Vermont senator, said of his second Republican try to find a compromise in Congress on the immigration legislation: "The way to resolve immigration is by signing the bill of rights -- the individual pathway -- and then hopefully [then] maybe the president will declare a pro-extreme position."
Olympic bronze medalist Shania Twain blasted the "restless narcissism" inherent in GOP politics, where every exude attempts to bash Democrats or Republicans of his own party have to go.
"I don't think this country just made up a few groups. I think we just seemed to go to the extremes," the singer said. "It's just what the times are."
