Title : Devastating Beirut blast was more powerful than a volcanic eruption, scientists find

Original :
Last year's Port of Beirut blast was as powerful as a volcanic eruption, generating electron disturbances high into the earth's upper atmosphere, scientists in Japan have found.
The speed of the high-velocity atmospheric wave caused by the 4 August explosion was even larger than the one generated by the eruption of Asama Volcano in central Japan in 2004.
It was also comparable to more recent eruptions on Japanese islands, the researchers concluded.
"We found that the blast generated a wave that travelled in the ionosphere in a southwards direction at a velocity of around 0.8 kilometres per second," Hokkaido University Earth and Planetary scientist Kosuke Heki said.
On 4 August, more than 2,750 tons worth of improperly stored ammonium nitrate exploded in the port area of the Lebanese capital, killing around 200 people and making more than 300,000 temporarily homeless.
The blast, which left a 140-metre-diameter crater in its wake, is believed to be one of the most powerful non-nuclear, man-made explosions in human history.
Read also: 'Not like every time:' Beirut blast victims want the truth
Japanese scientists and colleagues from the National Institute of Technology Rourkela in India reached their conclusions after calculating changes in total electron content in the earth's ionosphere.
The findings, published in the journal, Scientific Reports, were based on measurements from around 50 to 965 kilometres in altitude.
The team calculated changes in ionospheric electron content by looking at differences in delays experienced by microwave signals transmitted by GPS satellites to their ground stations.
Natural events such as extreme ultraviolet radiation, geomagnetic storms, and man-made activities like nuclear tests, can cause disturbances to the ionosphere's electron content.
Changes in electron content affect these signals as they pass through the ionosphere.
The scientists then compared the magnitude of the ionospheric wave generated by the Beirut blast to similar waves following both natural and man-made events.
More than six months after the explosion, the official investigation is struggling to break through Lebanon's political culture of corruption and obstruction.
This has meant that investigators and legal experts have been unable to hold high-ranking officials to account for the dangerous stockpile left in a heavily-populated area.
Documents reviewed by news outlets show that officials were well aware of the dangers posed by the large chemical store.
Responsibility for the ammonium nitrate is alleged to have been passed for years among different public and private entities, including the ministry of public works and transport, the judiciary, the army, and even a private explosives company.

Generated :
This image made by the Integrated Science Network of the Canary Islands, shows destruction at the Parhabat crater where the collision occurred in 2011. (Source: Astrophysics University/ IRSN Foundation)
Scientists have found a powerful retrograde eruption between the Northern Sea and the Libyan Plateau that flattened much of the entire landscape of Syria’s main city. The explosion also wiped out vast swaths of land around the southern tip of Syria.
According to a statement issued by the United Nations, “a source close to Syria said that the damage of the fault created, after it developed and developed enough force to cause the KmPP [Irregular Volcanic eruption], was more powerful than a volcanic eruption, due to the combination of significant quantities of elemental matter and water.”
This was a direct result of the Pico (Sequel) eruption in August 2012, which unleashed torrential rains and cataclysmic landslides caused by hyperbolic magnetic structures of thousands of kilometres deep in the atmosphere.
Watch Video: What’s making news
The Old City of Damascus is one of the world’s most picturesque cities. It has a population of some one million, comprising a small proportion of the population from the north and the south, and the western suburbs.
Debris destroyed farmland and collapsed mountains. Some of the adjoining regions, like Herat, were identified as being at the epicentre of the disaster.
To calculate the impact of the main base of the old city on Syria’s capital — which is the epicentre of the Gulf War — an expert team of principal investigator Lars Sculle and colleagues at the Canary Islands Institute for Astrophysics and Astronomy, Harvard University, and Royal Albert University in London conducted an analysis of meteorological data around the KmPP, a structural mass of the Levant.
Sculle and colleagues compared the weather signatures of meteorological records in the region, including 0.082 millimetres of rain (mm) — less than 1 mm below normal rainfall in the Levant — in 2011 and 2012.
By contrast, the effect of the mid-80s to 50s experienced during the Pico Occacional; and the intensity of the eruption at Tartus in 2011 and 2012 combined with the magnitude of the KmPP and also resulted in a stratospheric eruption.
Merrill Sloan Mankaid, professor of geophysics at Harvard University, co-led the work, observing Pico Occacional and observing Pico. (Source: AP)
The researchers found that the fire may have also caused as much as the 2,920km of energetic particles in the ground. Sculle said that many of these particles — mostly those of cosmic rays, or small bursts of hydrothermal energy in other places in the planet — were produced from powerful volcanoes in the Levant.
The heaviest fire found during the Pico Occacional was in the Mediterranean Sea.
SCulle believes that there was an immediate sequence of events that allowed for large-scale, catastrophic effects like the KmPP that wiped out much of Syria’s territory, the wealth and influence of Arab and international financial institutions, and huge human populations worldwide.
“In Syria, Syria’s borders are primarily China-influenced,” Sculle said. “Now, there are the two major economic centres: Damascus and Tehran. There are a lot of people who drive by Damascus and Medina. How could there be a country like Damascus, if it had just closed its borders, unable to access them?”
The researchers also found that “all of the old city affected by the KmPP is also affected by a short-term impact of high local rainfall. It only occurs once every 10 million years [compared to Egypt’s spring-time floods from about 40 million years ago].”
The team made the assessment as part of a larger assessment of the KmPP, where the scientists examined other sources of the event. In these investigations, the researchers identified anomalies in satellite imagery records of the KmPP from around 2011, which were part of a larger study organized by Sculle’s colleagues, as well as interviews with around 140 Syrian personnel from KmPP.
For all the latest Lifestyle News, download Indian Express App
