Title : Pence announces Biden's victory after Congress completes electoral count

Original :
Washington —Vice President Mike Pence announced just after 3:40 a.m. Thursday that President-elect Joe Biden had won the presidency after Congress completed the counting of the Electoral College votes. What was largely seen as a perfunctory last step before Mr. Biden's inauguration had turned into a day of chaos after an angry mob of rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol in an effort to halt the process.
Latest Updates: Lawmakers call for Trump's removal after assault on Capitol
Congress had to recess for nearly six hours after the angry mob of President Trump's supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol, leaving four people dead in the melee and sending members of Congress fleeing from the floor during what Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell had earlier branded "the most important vote I've ever cast."
Earlier Wednesday, President Trump had encouraged his supporters to "walk over" to the U.S. Capitol as Congress counted the Electoral College votes, the largely ceremonial final step affirming President-elect Joe Biden's victory. Although Mr. Trump has lately been insisting Vice President Mike Pence had the authority to overturn the election results, Pence defied Mr. Trump on Wednesday and issued a lengthy statement saying he could not change the outcome.
Chaos erupted at the U.S. Capitol a few hours later as an angry mob of rioters — many waving Trump flags or carrying Trump gear — breached the building.
D.C. Metro police said one woman was shot and killed by police and three people died from medical emergencies. More than 52 people were arrested, with 47 of those arrested for curfew violations.
Mr. Biden gave a speech in Delaware denouncing the violence and called on Mr. Trump to address the nation. Mr. Trump then posted a one-minute video to Twitter, telling the rioters they are "special" but they "need to go home now."
Congress reconvened nearly six hours later after leaving the floor, taking up where it had left off in hearing the objection from Senator Ted Cruz and Congressman Paul Gosar to Arizona's electoral results. The Senate rejected the objection 93-6, and the House rejected it 303-121.
Despite calls from more than a dozen senators who said they would support objections to electoral results in key states, no senators signed onto House members' objections to the results in Michigan and Nevada.
But Senator Josh Hawley followed through on his promise to object to Pennsylvania's results. The Senate rejected it 92-7, leaving the House to debate it for two hours before it was rejected after 3 a.m.
Since none of these objections have a majority, they had no chance of succeeding. Even if there was a majority on any of the objections, it would not change the outcome of the election. Mr. Biden will be sworn in on January 20.

Generated :
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Vice President Mike Pence, elected in a landslide in Indiana on Friday, announced his victory in U.S. Senate races after a two-day count of ballots put together, reiterating his commitment to help fight the president’s election victory in November.
Pence, a former Ohio congressman, won the Indiana congressional district, which is considered largely swing leaning and may top the nine seats Democrats have held, according to projections from exit polls.
Republicans Chris Christie and Lamar Alexander carried the districts that Paxton has held for a decade in the last several elections, and Hillary Clinton will have another shot at winning the seat when former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton formally runs for the White House in November.
A breakdown of the final balloting shows that Christie had 49 percent of the votes cast in the state and Alexander was just behind him with just 1 percent. But the figures were significantly higher than the congressional precincts where Christie got 28 percent of the vote, and Alexander received just 16 percent.
Pence's victory continued a trajectory of continuity as he maintained his leadership of the administration. Pence, who has visited him in the White House multiple times, thanked Pence for “repugnant and incredible” advances in education, LGBTQ equality and women’s issues.
“It’s a great day for our country and my wife is thrilled for her family because it means we can do our part to achieve these ideals,” Pence said in a statement.
Other congressional races Trump had scored in weeks gone by, from the Michigan attorney general race to the Pennsylvania governor's race, although there were few surprises. New York’s new Democratic mayor, Marist College Prof. Michael Doherty, conceded his race for governor and resigned shortly after winning, ending one of the president’s biggest rallies of the campaign.
Pennsylvania was one of Trump’s hardest-hit states in November, with Democrats controlling all three state legislatures. The race was notable for its large number of upset wins in Republican-leaning Pennsylvania, including the nomination of GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump as well as legal challenges to Democratic efforts to block opposition to abortion-inducing drugs.
