Title : Delay sought in ex-officers' trial over George Floyd's death

Original :
MINNEAPOLIS -- Prosecutors in the case against the four Minneapolis officers charged in the death of George Floyd requested that the trial delayed by three months.
The Star Tribune reports prosecutors cited the COVID-19 pandemic and the amount of time needed before enough people are vaccinated and health risks are sufficiently diminished.
The trial has been scheduled for March 8 for the four now-fired police officers charged in the death of Floyd on May 25 while he was forcibly detained on a south Minneapolis street corner.
In its motion, the prosecution argued that putting off the trial until June 7 “appropriately balances the need to protect public health with the need to ensure that this case is resolved expeditiously.”
Derek Chauvin, Tou Thao, J. Alexander Kueng and Thomas Lane are scheduled to be tried together. Chauvin is charged with second-degree murder and manslaughter, and the others are charged with aiding and abetting murder and manslaughter.
Chauvin’s attorney, Eric Nelson, said he doesn't intend to object to the prosecution seeking a delay in the trial.
Kueng’s attorney, Thomas Plunkett, said the prosecution’s motion pointing to COVID-19 is puzzling.
“The timing of their motion seems curious to me,” Plunkett said. “The pandemic has been around for a while.”
Thao’s lawyer, Robert Paule, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Generated :
New Jersey State Police have sought documents sought from the ex-officers who handled the death of ex-dean George Floyd, according to reports.
New Jersey State Police have sought documents sought from the ex-officers who handled the death of ex-dean George Floyd, according to reports. Read | A verdict expected in ex-officer vs. ex-lawyer's trial of George Floyd
NYPD detective Sean Barone is being probed over the death of a convicted killer and the office knew of it, according to news reports.
“We’re awaiting records from a detective from the NYPD’s criminal justice department,” Barone said.
He also added he is not authorized to talk about the files, so he left the questions unanswered.
“Someone has to have a file or they’re not,” he said.
After Floyd’s death in 2014, state police began contacting police in response to reports from officers outside of the Hunterdon barracks about Floyd’s case.
WCBS 880’s Ginny Kosola reports https://cbsnewyork.files.wordpress.com/2019/01/kosola_bloomberg1w_midday_120808.mp3
Authorities alleged they had no plan or procedures to handle Floyd’s death, despite the fact he was a co-worker of Floyd’s.
Defense attorney Brian Spitzer argued that Floyd, who had originally been convicted of the slaying in the greater Hunterdon area and is serving a life sentence, did not file a criminal complaint or use his power to defend himself.
Spitzer told reporters on Monday that Floyd was “very respectful” and “good enough to die” during the 2015 trial.
“I have witnessed a lot of these people with their hands on the gurney, the room itself, the pantry,” Spitzer said, according to the Yonkers Advance. “The past six months of the week has been the most difficult of my career.”
Defense attorney Brian Spitzer arrives at the trial of ex-dean George Floyd in Yonkers on Tuesday, Jan. 1, 2019. Handout photo | WCBS 880 | The shakeup could at least partially prevent Floyd’s conviction from being overturned, according to statements from prosecutors. — Eric Lerez (@Eric_Lerez) January 1, 2019
Former detective Deon Johnson contends Floyd was angry and confused when police arrived at the scene, and that Floyd was violent and inappropriate.
Jalyn "Bey" Jackson was also questioned about the incident as well. A gas station customer informed an officer that Floyd was going on a hunger strike after a stolen car was found behind the station last May, according to the Advance.
Jalyn “Bey” Jackson was being questioned at the scene of the arrest in Yonkers on July 16, 2015, according to a warrant.
“He was loose,” an officer said. “He didn’t know that no matter what his provocation was he was going to die.”
