Title : It's happening: First COVID vaccine doses to arrive in EU member states on December 26

Original :
COVID-19 vaccines are being prepared for shipment to European Union member states, the Commission confirmed on Thursday.
"It's happening: COVID-vaccines are being sent to all EU countries," Isaac Valero, assistant to the Commission's Secretary-General, said on Twitter.
Member states will each receive approximately 10.000 doses for this first delivery on December 26, the Commission told Euronews.
Deliveries will continue in December and on a steady weekly basis during the following months. Brussels has previously said member states would be allocated doses based on their population size.
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) authorised the emergency use of the jab developed by Pfizer and BioNtech on Monday and EU countries will start their vaccination campaigns from Sunday.
COVID variant is likely in most European countries already, says expert.
Which parts of Europe are likely to be most hesitant about a COVID-19 vaccine?
Brussels has struck several Advance Purchase Agreements for COVID-19 vaccines and secured up to 300 million doses of the Pfizer-BioNtech vaccine — the only one approved so far by European authorities.
This means up to 150 million Europeans can receive it as two shots are required for it to be more than 90 per cent effective.
The Commission expects the distribution of the first 200 million doses to be completed by September 2021, and is currently "working to activate the additional 100 million doses," it told Euronews.
The EMA has also brought forward its review of the Moderna vaccine to January 6. The Commission has struck a contract with the US company to purchase up to 160 million doses — enough to vaccinate a further 80 million Europeans.

Generated :
The European Commission is running a campaign to encourage the re-election of Brussels state officials and other European Union officials with the official title of “preserve of God” after their last state election, and on Sunday, they said they were aiming to hit the 52 million tonnes of EU governments’ votes needed in order to force the bloc to reform and reform its political structure by December 26.
European authorities on Tuesday advised EU governments to stay tight-lipped about how much they will be consuming at once, and will effectively close state officials in the bloc by the end of 2020, although European policymakers, many of whom are supposed to meet in Brussels in less than two weeks, have been instructed not to talk about their plans.
Guiding states to follow the lead of the United States, the US and Germany are pushing the EU, the world’s largest democracy, to seek a new order from the bloc’s Administrative Council as the EU is in the throes of a Brexit negotiations with the UK.
Germany, Italy and other countries want to ensure an orderly transition to leave the EU and scale back Brussels’ powers to deal with EU external crises while ensuring democratic reform.
In their view, the EU needs to realise that the time they have left will most certainly not be far from now.
EU elections, or think tanks with mission, an eight-month-old process to reform the EU have been viewed by many in the EU as an attempt to destroy its authority, and many European policy-makers are questioning the bloc’s competence.
READ MORE: U.S. proposal to bypass EU election rules proves far from clear: Clinton’s first White House speech
Under Mr Valerio Karaiolo, who has been charged with penning the most basic conservative policy proposals in the bloc, he and the country’s election commission should have the final say on whatever plan they propose to follow with the agenda to be submitted at the end of 2020, being pushed for by the remaining member states and the EU, the EU Commission’s executive arm, said on Tuesday.
“Within some time, we will have a greater say,” the commission said.
Another political source said that if the states decided to steer the reform agenda towards state departments, which many commentators would accuse of being too statist or too focused on political ideology, they would control what they said would move the direction of the policy programme.
They could choose the outcomes that would boost overall macroeconomic stability by reinvesting taxes in core areas such as education, health and infrastructure, he said.
Partly on the other hand, there could be “more broad coalitions” and a small number would want to cut a long list of inefficiencies they identified, he said.
He mentioned the S&P 500 Index, for example, as a main beneficiary of a potential “Green Climate Change” initiative.
Under the idea that the EU could level off such coalitions in the future, but not the EU, there would be different levels of interest in regions that have suffered the worst cuts to spending since the Kyoto protocol, he said.
Data released on Tuesday showed that the EU had repeatedly cut spending in the last few years to ensure a smooth transition in the single market.
© Thomson Reuters 2020
