Title : Beirut explosions create a dilemma for the world

Original :
More than a hundred dead, thousands injured and hundreds of thousands rendered homeless: The human toll of the massive explosions in Beirut last Tuesday demands an immediate response from the rest of the world. It is no exaggeration to say that many will die, or be permanently maimed, if succor doesn’t come quickly.
But the tragedy also puts the world’s leaders and lenders on the horns of a familiar dilemma: How to help a stricken people without empowering their shady — and sinister — rulers?
The quandary was raised recently in Iran, when the government of the Islamic Republic sought $5 billion from the International Monetary Fund to deal with the coronavirus outbreak. At the time, I argued that the regime in Tehran could not be trusted with cash: The risk was too great that the money would be siphoned into Iran’s well-established program of spreading terrorism and sectarian violence across the Middle East. Better to offer material help — food, medicine, doctors and nurses — instead.
Tellingly, the Iranian government insisted on cash, which it has not received, and chose to let its people suffer rather than accept Western offers of non-monetary assistance. It has since tried to conceal the extent of the coronavirus crisis by fudging the figures. The real death toll may be more than three times higher than announced.
Lebanon, for all its political dysfunction and economic chaos, is for the most part an open society. The government of Prime Minister Hassan Diab will gladly accept offers of assistance from all comers — with the possible exception of Israel. Rescue and relief groups from all over the world are on their way to Beirut. Food and other emergency supplies will be arriving, as well.
But the profoundly corrupt political elite that runs the country will not miss this opportunity to ask for money too. And therein lies the dilemma.
There’s no question Lebanon will need the cash. Beirut has suffered enormous physical damage: The city’s governor estimates it will cost between $3 billion and $5 billion to repair.
Under normal circumstances, the Lebanese diaspora could be relied upon to pick up much of the tab. But in recent months, the parlous state of the Lebanese economy — and especially the collapse of its currency — has prompted many to take their money out of the country. They will send cash back in to support friends and family, but investing in reconstruction requires a faith in the management of the economy and confidence in the banking system that doesn’t currently exist.
As with Iran, there is a danger that aid money will be diverted from its intended purpose — whether to line the pockets of Lebanon’s famously venal politicians, or worse, furnish the coffers of Hezbollah, which acts as Iran’s catspaw across the region.
Fear of money falling into the hands of Hezbollah has kept the Gulf Arab states from bailing Lebanon out of its current economic crisis, as they have in the past.
That leaves the IMF, which even before Tuesday’s tragedy was in talks with the Diab government for a $10 billion loan. But those negotiations had stalled over the government’s inability to agree on an economic reform plan. Economy Minister Raoul Nehme was being optimistic when he said he might get half that amount last week.
The IMF might now be willing to talk of a larger sum, to incorporate Beirut’s reconstruction needs. But the risk of misuse may be greater in the chaos following the blasts, so it should be even more insistent on transparency.
The scale of the tragedy should shake the government — and the entire political class — into its senses about the need for reforms. Even Hezbollah, surely, must now recognize that a bailout, with strings attached, is inevitable — and urgent. At a bare minimum, the government should allow a system of international supervision of how reconstruction money is spent. Failure to secure assistance at a moment when there is so much sympathy for Lebanon would be disastrous.
The world wants to help the Lebanese. The politicians in Beirut must help us help them.

Generated :
By Marja Sokneski and Olga Rosendahl
MUZAFFARABAD, August 9 (Reuters) - As the Iranian nuclear talks in Rome wind down, Iranian leaders are under increasing pressure to commit more to resolving the Middle East's biggest nuclear crisis.
A delegation that included top nuclear experts will meet with Austrian President Heinz Fischer on Monday, as members of the Iranian government are due to brief world powers, diplomats said, but Iran's insistence on guaranteeing never again being bomb tested is pushing their diplomatic contacts further apart.
Iran also joined a United Nations call for a global nuclear deal, reaching initial agreement in the talks on Friday and agreeing this week with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
The Iran and Saudi Arabia talks have had no end in sight after the U.N. Security Council last month imposed a tough new sanctions order against Tehran, saying Tehran was determined to pursue its nuclear ambitions.
But the two leaders appeared to be coming back into sharper focus on negotiations scheduled for Oct. 12, when the two sides hope to finalise an outline of a broad agreement - with broad exemptions for commercial shipments of military equipment and developing nuclear warheads - to avoid sanctions.
"No one will engage with us if we don't have this unbreakable bond with the United Nations," Deputy Foreign Minister Hossein Amir Abdollahian said in a speech in Damascus on Sunday.
Iran has told the United Nations it wants sanctions lifted on some items such as rice, oil and livestock from 2015. Most other items are unaffected, Iranian officials say.
Rizvi, an activist close to the Iranian government, said the country had not only chosen to send its delegation without knowing the outcome of the talks but that this has undermined the security of Iran.
"There is no such thing as unbreakable bond between Iran and world powers and nobody wants to see the Iranian regime fighting in the streets like the previous ones," Rizvi said.
Iran's shock announcement on Sunday that it would trade refined oil products for gasoline has added to mounting pressure to back off from agreeing to build a bomb on a scale the West fears can be found in Syria and Iraq.
A nuclear power can produce what is known as enough energy to power a mass of around 80 million people within a week. But Iran says its capability to produce nuclear weapons was theoretical, and President Hassan Rouhani's government has repeatedly said it would not pursue it.
Syria, Iran's Sunni neighbor, is a key economic and military base for Tehran, and the last two large Syrian cities which joined Tehran in attacks on Shi'ite Muslim rebels - Damascus and Deir Ezzor - have been military installations.
Iran's deputy foreign minister said on Sunday he was not optimistic that talks would yield any tangible result until it opened talks on a comprehensive nuclear deal, despite criticism of Iran's present position in the talks.
"If we lose early on, then this is the golden moment we want. To return to what was in the past, this is our private problem," he said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
"Our right is to accept this (workable) agreement. A deadline is not on the table. It's a free thing to continue."
He also dismissed suggestions that Iran and Syria could run out of time to reach an agreement. Iran has agreed to withdraw its troops from Syria in exchange for lifting the United Nations-imposed sanctions.
"What we need, which is fundamental, is a progress. We need to discuss it, we need a release (of prisoners)," he said, according to an interview cited by the semi-official Fars news agency.
"Iran was in Syria mainly to ease the crisis. What we need is a durable settlement that all sides can live with."
He did not give more details.
(Reporting by Marja Sokneski and Olga Rosendahl; Editing by Catherine Evans)
