Title : Women march on scene of Beirut blast in Mother's Day protest

Original :
WOMEN marched on the scene of last year’s devastating explosion in Beirut on the eve of Lebanon’s Mother’s Day on Saturday night.
The demonstration included mothers of victims of the August 4 blast, when 3,000 tons of ammonium nitrate fertiliser that had been unsafely stored for six years in a warehouse ignited, killing 211 people and injuring more than 6,000.
Banners called on the political elite to surrender power. “The scream of every mother is ‘leave’,” one read. Another was inscribed: “We raised them inch by inch and you blew them up. Leave.”
Lebanon is mired in an economic and political crisis, with galloping inflation and no sitting government.
President Michael Aoun is scheduled to meet prime minister designate Saad al-Hariri this week to agree on forming a cabinet, and Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah said the powerful Shi’ite militia would be prepared to support a government of technocrats, though it would prefer a role for politicians.
But he warned that Mr Hariri’s determination to access International Monetary Fund cash would entail submitting to demands that could intensify the crisis, such as removing food subsidies.
The Communist Party of Lebanon said no government cobbled together by the usual sectarian power-brokers — Lebanon’s political system is based on a division of key posts between leaders of the Shi’ite, Sunni and Maronite Christian communities — had any answer to the country’s problems.
General secretary Hanna Gharib called for protesters to “escalate the uprising in all regions, cities and rural areas” to bring down sectarianism and establish a secular democratic republic.
“Bring down the system of corruption and dependency and subject it to popular trial instead of calling for it to form a new government,” he said.

Generated :
BPM Media
Women used slogans such as "shame, shame on your country and the Lebanese" and "Slaughter is not what it seems" during the demonstration in front of Syria's de facto capital. (Abdel Majid Naim/Redferns)
Women who wanted to protest Lebanon's slagging off of the group of demonstrators on Mother's Day, Mother's Day, Monday to mark the end of the Syrian war and the birth of a woman, marched to a Beirut police station from the southern suburbs of Beirut.
They began the march with signs to counter parliamentary protests and then entered the jail on Lebanon's southern outskirts. They were later escorted by police to the eastern port city of Latakia where they were given access to buildings to hold rally calls.
One woman called Refami Aslan told the pro-government news site Proact that the demonstration would move along towards Tripoli. "We will be pro-active to direct our vote in the elections. That is why the protest was cancelled."
Demonstrators shout slogans like "shame, shame on your country and the Lebanese, we are above contempt, we condemn the Syrian army as it has done terrorism" during the demonstration in front of Syria's de facto capital in Beirut, Lebanon, on Sunday. (Abdel Majid Naim/Redferns)
The march in front of the Beirut station came a day after police said they had arrested five people for vandalising cars and vandalism. Four were Muslim women, two had had their cars burst into flames.
Speaking from their checkpoint inside the National Police station in Heliopolis, police chief Deschudeen Selim said, "Since we are in charge of the police station, each woman has her own restrictions," referring to different quotas and the police force's limited authority.
She urged women to wear uniforms, saying: "In here, we won't allow them to cross the center."
After Sunday's protest in the eastern suburbs, protesters moved to the city's main square with the chanting of "No dictatorship, no corruption".
On Monday, the main road to the main airport across Beirut was closed due to looting. "Demolition is forbidden, there is a blast," one man told AFP as protesters wrapped themselves in sheets to prevent their cars from moving.
"Of course my cars are going to flash on the road. It's the time to protect yourself, and you don't want to endanger yourself or your house. We want us to be able to leave before noon."
A woman was injured in last week's attack and several police officers were attacked.
A resident in the neighbourhood of Deir al-Zour said he saw at least a dozen police officers on the ground.
"There is no safety, everyone is a target, and when there is an explosion, everyone is injured. People should be alive and doing things. It is not democracy, it's bloodshed," he told AFP.
