Title : Two arrested, charged with assaulting police officer Brian Sicknick, who died after Capitol riot

Original :
Authorities have arrested and charged two men with assaulting Brian Sicknick, the police officer who died as a result of the Jan. 6 pro-Trump invasion of the U.S. Capitol.
Julian Elie Khater, 32, of Pennsylvania, and George Pierre Tanios, 39, of West Virginia, were arrested Sunday and are accused of assaulting Sicknick and other officers with a substance similar to bear spray. They are not currently charged with killing Sicknick.
Senate Democrats are pushing for recurring stimulus checks
Supreme Court considers whether Goldman shareholders can sue
Elizabeth Warren slams Archegos Capital meltdown
In initial appearances before separate federal courts Monday afternoon, both men were ordered to be temporarily held behind bars pending future hearings.
Video footage of Khater and Tanios on Jan. 6 shows the two men “were working in concert and had a plan to use the toxic spray against law enforcement,” according to a search warrant affidavit in West Virginia federal court.
“Give me that bear s---,” Khater said before reaching into Tanios’ backpack, the affidavit alleges, citing “open source media video” of the incident outside the Capitol.
“Hold on, hold on, not yet, not yet ... its still early,” Tanios responded, the affidavit says.
At around 2:20 p.m., Khater, seen holding a white spray canister, walks toward a bike rack barrier outside the building, where a line of officers, including Sicknick, was stationed, the court document says.
Minutes later, Khater appears to raise the canister and aim it toward the officers, who were standing 5 to 8 feet away, according to the affidavit.
ReutersSicknick and two other officers “all react, one by one, to something striking them in the face,” the affidavit says. “The officers immediately retreat from the line, bring their hands to their faces and rush to find water to wash out their eyes,” it says.
“All three officers were incapacitated and unable to perform their duties for at least 20 minutes or longer while they recovered from the spray,” the affidavit says.
Sicknick died at approximately 9:30 p.m. on Jan. 7 due to the injuries he suffered during the riot, according to the U.S. Capitol Police. He had joined the USCP in 2008.
Both men were arrested Sunday. Khater was apprehended as he got off an airplane at Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey and Tanios was arrested at his home in West Virginia, according to a press release from the Department of Justice.
Khater and Tanios both face charges including assaulting federal officers with a dangerous weapon, conspiracy, obstructing an official proceeding, violence on restricted grounds and disorderly conduct, the Justice Department said.
The most serious charges carry 20-year maximum prison sentences.
“The attack on the U.S. Capitol and on our police officers, including Brian Sicknick, was an attack on our democracy,” acting Capitol Police Chief Yogananda Pittman said in a statement from USCP on Monday afternoon.
“Those who perpetrated these heinous crimes must be held accountable, and — let me be clear — these unlawful actions are not and will not be tolerated by this Department,” Pittman said.
The statement noted that a “multi-jurisdictional investigation” into Sicknick’s death is still active.
Khater and Tanios were allegedly among the thousands who stormed the Capitol or rioted outside the building, forcing a joint session of Congress to evacuate their chambers and delaying efforts to confirm President Joe Biden’s electoral victory over then-President Donald Trump.
The invasion by the pro-Trump mob resulted in five deaths. More than 300 people have so far been charged in connection with the riot, and prosecutors expect more charges are forthcoming.
The arrests were first reported by The Washington Post earlier Monday morning.

Generated :
A citizen police officer and a citizen paramedic were among the officers who died this week.
Angus Seaga, 32, and Michael Gennison, 37, were all scheduled to be arraigned Thursday in the capital city of Washington, D.C., but the jury in their case told them that they are both charged with three counts of murder, according to the Washington Post.
Seaga, Gennison and Allan Weisenberger, an 22-year-old water utility representative with the Washington Navy Yard’s public affairs office, are each charged with a capital felony.
They are each given bail of $900,000 and awaiting trial. A preliminary hearing for each was slated for 2 p.m. Thursday in the city’s House District Criminal Court.
Police Superintendent Scott Lloyd told WPVI-TV that officers weren’t involved in the incident, describing the altercation as “a chaotic situation.” He did not elaborate on what triggered the confrontation between Seaga and Gennison, noting the circumstances surrounding it.
Gennison is a London-native, an Oxford graduate and alumnus of the city’s business school. He was the patrol officer for a woman who officers said was harassing her, according to reports. The woman had self-harmed after hitting him with a handgun during the fracas.
Gennison’s death stunned his fellow officers on the streets of downtown Washington. Cmdr. Leonard Ramos, 27, said he’s met many people related to the incident “who may feel like they lost a friend.”
“Everybody is in shock,” he said, adding that police were simply trying to “clear the streets with adequate force, to make sure it didn’t create a second after violence.”
The officers’ deaths come three weeks after the US military announced that its deployment to Iraq and Afghanistan was ending.
A decision to withdraw the troops from Iraq will be announced on Friday.
