Title : Gov. Reeves refuses to say Biden's election was legitimate; denounces mail-in voting

Original :
JACKSON, Miss. (WLBT) - In an interview Sunday night with CNN’s Jake Tapper, Mississippi Governor Tate Reeves was given several chances to say if he believed President Joe Biden was legitimately and lawfully elected.
Each time, he stopped short.
Reeves acknowledged Biden’s presidency will not be overturned and he was “duly elected,” but wouldn’t answer yes or no specifically when asked whether it was fair.
“Do you accept the 2020 U.S. Election was free and fair? Obviously every election has some questions, but I’m talk about free and fair legitimately elected Joe Biden, yes or no?” Tapper asked.
“...He was certified in all 50 states and he is the duly-elected president,” Reeves said. “But that doesn’t mean that we don’t have bad laws on the books in other states, it’s just a fact.”
The “bad laws” he’s referring to are in reference to mail-in ballots.
“In our state we do not allow mail-in voting, and the reason we don’t allow mail-in voting is because we...think that it allows lots of opportunities for fraud and other things. And I don’t think that mail-in voting should be allowed in other states around the nation.”

Generated :
Former Democratic Governor of Arkansas Mike Huckabee has denied that Gov. Bill Clinton won the Democratic nomination for president.
The two were locked in a presidential contest in 1992 and in 1994, when Clinton beat Walker by fewer than 1 million votes.
Still, Huckabee has known Clinton for 17 years. He served as Arkansas' governor for two terms.
"While Arkansas voters elected Governor Bill Clinton, they did so because, as long as he has not completed the minimum qualifications required to be a qualified person for president, Arkansas will continue to be known as the 'failed state' that twice disrepute the people who gave him the presidency," Huckabee said in a statement Thursday.
The embattled governor, who was sworn in Tuesday by his Democratic Party chairman, issued the denial for the second time.
"I think I can tell you that I believe people really want Governor Clinton, because people like him in Arkansas have done a great job," he said.
But Huckabee is taking shots at Clinton that have continued throughout the campaign.
"I personally don't think I should be running, but because the voting and voter registration process in Arkansas is so complex and there are so many vulnerable candidates, I think I can tell you that," he said.
"I'm not talking about abortion, drug abuse and ever pursuing his legacy because he didn't do what I had to do to get in the race, but I think the votes didn't count. I certainly don't agree with that," he said.
Advocates of veterans and the 1.7 million that have voted for Hillary Clinton may not have ever had a problem persuading some voters of her intentions.
"No one should doubt that they will be able to vote for Hillary Clinton. And this election came down to whether she can actually get the votes and people feel confident that, at least at the end of the day, what they voted for did count," said Michelle Wyczek, a political scientist at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock.
"Her likely results in the last week of November looked very different from what the Republican candidate did in the last polls this week," Wyczek said.
U.S. Rep. David Schweikert (R-Boca Raton) has said he's proud of how he voted for Clinton in the contest.
Bills Clinton and Gov. Mike Huckabee were declared void by the State Department on Feb. 23 — about six weeks before polls closed. The mail-in voting system in Arkansas has long been used by the Clinton campaign to address mail-in ballots. The Arkansas secretary of state is the senior vote-getter in that office.
A Democratic consulting firm spent about $470,000 lobbying the state legislature and the governor's office on Nov. 26. The firm's Democratic strategist defended the closed system, which allowed a multitude of primary candidates to collect the more than 3 million votes needed to win.
"We always say that a system like the one where two main candidates are each entitled to 10,000 votes to a handful of opponents will not create any problems and the public simply will not know," Bernard Schuck, executive director of the firm, wrote in a 2010 regulatory filing.
Krobel said in a phone interview Thursday that only about 90,000 ballots were turned in as of Wednesday morning. Democrats will decide how many will fill the void that could result from Tuesday's ballot.
"Polls will indicate that there will be far fewer ballots than usual," Krobel said.
Associated Press writers Trey Radel and Pete Yost contributed to this report.
