Title : Trump on Beirut explosions: Some U.S. generals 'seem to think it was an attack'

Original :
WASHINGTON -- U.S. President Donald Trump said U.S. military generals have told him that they "seem to feel" the massive explosion that rocked Beirut on Tuesday, killing at least 70 people, was a "terrible attack" likely caused by a bomb.
Trump was asked why he called it an attack and not an accident, especially since Lebanese officials say they have not determined the cause of the explosion. He told reporters at the White House: "It would seem like it based on the explosion. I met with some of our great generals and they just seem to feel that it was. This was not a -- some kind of a manufacturing explosion type of a event. ... They seem to think it was a attack. It was a bomb of some kind, yes."
Trump offered condolences to the victims and said the United States stood ready to assist Lebanon. "It looks like a terrible attack," he said.The Pentagon did not immediately respond to a request for comment Tuesday night.
The explosion flattened much of a port and damaged buildings across the capital, sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. In addition to those who died, more than 3,000 other people were injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.
The cause of the blast was not immediately known, but initial reports suggested a fire had detonated a warehouse at the port. Abbas Ibrahim, chief of Lebanese General Security, said it might have been caused by highly explosive material that was confiscated from a ship some time ago and stored at the port. Local television channel LBC said the material was ammonium nitrate.
Witnesses reported seeing a strange, orange cloud like that which appears when toxic nitrogen dioxide gas is released after an explosion involving nitrates.

Generated :
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Chief of General Staff John Campbell said on Friday that some commanders in the international army called on President Donald Trump to intervene in Libya after the bombing of a nuclear plant in Iran raised serious concerns about the trajectory of U.S. military action there.
FILE PHOTO: The President of the United States addresses a joint session of Congress on foreign policy at the White House in Washington, U.S., March 26, 2017. REUTERS/Carlos Barria/File Photo
Campbell’s comments came after a U.S. Air Force major said on Thursday that he and some generals were “seem to think” the Trump administration was considering action to help protect Nigerien President Muammar Gaddafi’s forces, but said it was premature to declare that, as German Chancellor Angela Merkel had warned.
In a speech to the Military Officers Association of America in Washington on Thursday, Chief of General Staff Lt. Gen. Mary Odum had put the U.S. ambassador to Libya, Rear Admiral John Kirby, and the military chief of staff, General Michael McConnell, in “paranoia” about the escalating tensions.
U.S. defense officials have been trying to build up international pressure on Gaddafi since it was installed in Tripoli to end the 47-year-old dictator’s 42-year rule. They say this largely lies in the perception that Gaddafi was ever capable of trying to overthrow an elected government in Libya.
Last week at a NATO summit in Brussels, Trump was infuriated by accusations that NATO was acting too slowly to support Gaddafi’s forces, saying he was “very much fearful” about a possible world war.
“The president is too paranoid about the situation in the Middle East,” Campbell told the Association for Professional Leadership.
The fact that the United States did not intervene militarily, he said, underscored the United States’ readiness for another attack and described the attack as “a grave violation of international law.”
