Title : Fourth Houston-area resident charged in US Capitol riot

Original :
A Houston man smashed a window with a hatchet and hurled a desk drawer and flagpole at law enforcement officers during the deadly Jan. 6 pro-Trump invasion of the U.S. Capitol, new court documents allege.
Following an investigation that was prompted by a tip from a stranger, FBI agents arrested Shane Leedon Jenkins on Friday morning at his northwest Houston home, the agency said. Jenkins marks the fourth Houston-area resident charged in connection with the Capitol attack as federal agents continue tracking down suspects.
Jenkins is charged in U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia with civil disorder, assaulting officers with a dangerous weapon, destruction of government property, entering or remaining in a restricted building or grounds, disorderly conduct in a restricted building or grounds and engaging in physical violence in a restricted building or grounds, according to a criminal complaint.
NEWS IN YOUR INBOX: Sign up for breaking news email alerts from HoustonChronicle.com here
In mid-January, an online sleuth filed an FBI tip with information about Jenkins' social media accounts and public videos showing his involvement in the riot, according to the complaint. The defendant appears in multiple photos and videos with a reddish-blonde beard, red beanie and blue hoodie, a tattoo under his right eye and a neck tattoo with the words, "MAMA TRIED."
Federal agents located a video showing Jenkins remove a metal survival hatchet from a backpack, put on black gloves and smash a window to the left of the Lower West Terrace tunnel, according to court records. The window repair cost roughly $1,500, officials said.
Security and body-worn camera footage shows Jenkins throw a pole, a desk drawer, a metal rod and flagpole at a group of Metropolitan Police Department and U.S. Capitol Police officers, striking some of them in the head as they attempted to prevent the crowd from infiltrating a tunnel, court documents allege.
A parole officer with the Texas Department of Criminal Justice helped federal agents verify Jenkins' identity in photos and videos.
The other Houston-area men charged for their participation in breaching Capitol grounds are bakery owner and Salvadorian native Wilmar Jeovanny Montano Alvarado; Tam Pham, a Houston police officer who has since resigned; and Joshua R. Lollar, a 39-year-old disabled veteran from Spring.

Generated :
The fourth Houston-area resident charged in the March 4 riot on the U.S. Capitol was recently found guilty of disorderly conduct.
Kickikheko Thabet — 15 and of Houston, Texas — was among six people who were charged in the riot that occurred Feb. 19 in the rotunda of the House of Representatives, three miles from the building where the House is housed.
Thabet, 20, told Houston police he had been dating “I am sorry/but how I really feel/have nothing to eat/hold them back/chances they're not better/[then] come with me!/up-to-take #2.”
A statement on the Houston police website reads, “Of all the people charged during the riot, Thabet was the one who was initially hurt (judging by by the injuries), and was most guilty of putting up bodily harm.”
“However, they were not without remorse," the statement continues. “He has shown his remorse. He apologizes and will serve his sentence with great contrition.”
Police began investigating Thabet at 7:30 p.m. February 19 as an assailant, booking him in the Carwell Hotel.
The officer who led the initial investigation for the March 4 riot returned a citation for disobeying arrest orders two hours later.
Fourteen people were charged during the riot — from police who were being ordered by a court at 2:30 a.m. to property damage ranging from $5,000 to more than $60,000.
Prosecutor Christine Smilly said an officer saw Thabet and six others throwing water bottles on buildings, without warning others.
“After seeing what I saw, I felt compelled to let them know my friend he was not a threat to a fellow police officer,” Smilly said. “As I listened to what happened, my hand reached up and my wife started calming him down.”
As multiple officers searched the stage at the Carwell Hotel, officers believed Thabet had made threats.
The campus’s campus arm, College Climate Connection, said in a statement that Thabet’s short-term felony conviction is to be commended for the investigation and the 25-year-old’s actions.
"To make a claim of criminality as a witness, though," the statement said, "Thabet continues to refuse to file a claim for his son's murder."
At a court hearing Wednesday afternoon, Thabet waived his right to a grand jury after two hours of deliberations. The 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the decision of a special prosecutor who asked for an interim sentence to be imposed based on Thabet’s repeated acts, saying in its opinion that “the evidence presents no evidence of a sufficient motive to justify requesting a sentence to be imposed for he was guilty of a crime he was not to be held accountable for.”
Prosecutor Smilly said Thabet's treatment and treatment of his family and his fellow University of Houston law students was intolerable.
“It has saddened our law students so terribly that we are not able to continue to be effective in bringing justice for the countless victims,” Smilly said.
He added, “I apologize for the people who have been misled, and for the way that justice has been lost on us.”
Thabet’s case will be closely watched by Texas courts, as police have said they still have questions about the climate conference where the Houston defendants were attending and who came to be there.
“We are thoroughly investigating, and we will stay forward in investigating and apprehending any individuals responsible for their actions,” Smilly said.
-- Staff Report
