Title : More than 600 nurses die from COVID-19 worldwide

Original :
ICN implores governments to collect accurate data on nurse infections and deaths and act to protect their health and save lives
The International Council of Nurses (ICN) is again calling on governments to record the number of infections and deaths among healthcare staff, and take whatever measures are needed to protect nurses from COVID-19.
Worldwide, there is no systematic and standardised record of the number of nurses and healthcare workers (HCWs) who have contracted the disease or died from it.
But ICN’s analysis, based on data from our National Nursing Associations, official figures and media reports from a limited number of countries, indicates that more than 230,000 HCWs have contracted the disease, and more than 600 nurses have now died from the virus.
ICN CEO Howard Catton said:
“For weeks now we have been asking for data about infections and deaths among nurses to be collected. We need a central database of reliable, standardised, comparable data on all infections, periods of quarantine and deaths that are directly or indirectly related COVID-19. Countries need clear reporting and monitoring mechanisms, and they should also include incidents of psychological, sexual and physical violence against healthcare workers.
‘Without this data we do not know the true cost of COVID-19, and that will make us less able to tackle other pandemics in the future. Florence Nightingale knew the importance of data in the fight against disease, and its lack in this case is potentially costing the lives of many nurses, devastating their families, and cutting off their careers in their prime. This must not be allowed to continue and ICN demands that action is taken now to put this situation right.”
ICN’s analysis shows that on average 7% of all Covid-19 cases worldwide are among HCWs, which means that nurses and other staff are at great personal risk, and so are the patients they care for.
Extrapolating ICN’s 7% figure to cover all the world’s countries means that around 450,000 of the world’s over six million cases could be among HCWs.
The proportion of infected people who are HCWs varies widely between countries. However, many countries are not recording this data, which makes meaningful international comparisons extremely challenging.
The figures, although partial and preliminary, raise a number of questions that could be answered if all countries kept comprehensive standardised data, and if these were collated centrally on a global scale.
These include:
What contributes to the variation of HCW infection rates between countries with a range between 1% in Singapore and more than 30% in Ireland?
Why are some countries that have high numbers of cases recording low numbers of deaths among HCWs? For example, Germany and Spain.
Why do the rates of deaths among nurses appear higher in some Latin American countries?
Why are some countries reporting disproportionate deaths among black, Asian and minority ethnic HCWs? This is an issue raised directly by the Philippine Nurses Association to ICN, concerning Filipino HCWs in the UK.
How do HCW infection rates vary between different clinical settings, such as hospitals and long-term care facilities such as care homes?
ICN Chief Executive Officer Howard Catton said:
“Nursing is looking like one of the most dangerous jobs in the world at the moment. We need to get this data for every country and work out exactly what is going on that explains the variations that are evident with even a cursory glance at the figures. Only then will we be able to learn how best to keep our nurses safe and prevent any repeat of these terrible statistics in the future.”

Generated :
In addition to deaths from thyroid cancer, deaths from breast and stomach cancer, and cardiac and lung disease and complications of the cardiovascular system - hospitals and the US Food and Drug Administration are leading the way in identifying and preventing these trends.
Forty-eight people die each day in this manner, including 442 patients in Australia, according to the American College of Nurse Practitioners.
But how is this a trend?
SHARE
Share on Facebook SHARE
Share on Twitter TWEET
Link The UK has emerged as a top, leading potential source of new cancer deaths. Photo: Supplied
"The biggest takeaway of all from these reports is the obvious recognition that serious medical conditions can change so quickly that it is imperative for all to understand these trends properly," the group's chair-in-charge, Julie Sweeney, said.
"I look forward to examining the report and getting it more widely distributed in our community," she said.
When even NSW nurse practitioner Gail Sullivan testifies at trial after trial - she says the number of infection cases in NSW is 10 per cent of the state's total population - she says she is surprised and saddened that almost 400 nurses die each year from drugs-related cancer, including thyroid cancer.
Advertisement
"No-one is entirely aware of the magnitude of this disease. In previous studies, we have been told that if one is diagnosed early in life, we know for one very good reason."
Today, the new report, which is published by the Australian College of Nurse Practitioners, will examine how National Guidelines on Prevention of Cancer and Risk-Reducing Radiotherapy under the new US Food and Drug Administration are working to better understand the causes of the many cancers they are important to treat and preventing from occurring in a patient.
The National Guidelines on Prevention of Cancer are the result of years of collaborative research, an institute of health and advocacy design, and assessments of more than 200,000 patients each year across Australia in order to identify the causes of cancer.
The report, launched to coincide with the US convention on cancer in the United States, sees a stark contrast to Dr Colin Hayward's Australia and UK proposals for National Guidelines on Prevention of Cancer and Risk-Reducing Radiotherapy.
"On this issue, the new Australian commission - all in the context of the recommendations - is working to address the entire burden of cancer prevention and treatment, especially those that damage the immune system and cause development disorders in people with cancer," he said.
"It is undeniable that it is important to safeguard our health at home and abroad."
But while the best way to prevent cancer is to do more than just do more, there are more where this call came from.
The body responsible for controlling common cancers, including cancer of the joints, cancer of the intestines, liver, brain, prostate, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GHRH) and cervical cancer, is committed to keeping cancer prevention the cornerstone of its campaigns.
The new Medical Council report also reflects a concerted effort to put forward legislation that will dramatically increase the public's ability to detect and manage these cancers - specifically, by assessing how often patients are diagnosed with cancer in their community.
The report makes the strongest case yet that it is not difficult to reduce the mortality of cancer, but the disease and its potential complications will continue to create long-term impacts across the country.
Co-chair Professor Nikki Singh, who runs the Adult Cancer Association, said the new report also highlighted the importance of local research studies for better diagnosis and treatment of cancer, as well as the time it takes for new cancers to be detected.
"One of the important insights is the consistently changing society that is replete with optimism about cancer and its influence on society," Professor Singh said.
"As we work through this report, we will continue to explore the ways we can play a more active role in proactively detecting cancers and treating patients in the community."
The October 9 trial at St George Hospital in Sydney will be the first clinical trial of its kind to take place to see whether cancer vaccination for the prevention of cancer in chronic patients can prevent the death of 63 patients.
The report will also examine a variety of factors that determine outcomes for dementia patients, and others.
"This report is about the first post-doctoral study using research we have done on patients with dementia to determine the effectiveness of these treatments in the people who are dying from their illness," Professor Singh said.
"In total we expect this will prevent more than 60 deaths a year worldwide and predict that it will significantly increase the survival rates of people with dementia."
