Title : Court Replaces Lead Investigator for Port of Beirut Blast

Original :
Judge Fadi Sawan, who has led the investigation into the cause of the massive blast at the Port of Beirut last August, has been removed from the case after two former ministers complained of bias. He has been replaced by Tarek Bitar, the head of Beirut's criminal court, effective Friday.
The devastating explosion was caused by a cargo of 2,750 tonnes of explosives-grade ammonium nitrate, which had arrived in Beirut in 2013 aboard the freighter Rhosus. When the owner abandoned the vessel over unpaid port fees, Lebanese officials offloaded the cargo and left it in a minimally-guarded warehouse, adjacent to a cache of fireworks.
On August 4, it caught fire and detonated, killing 204 people and injuring another 7,500. The blast ranked among the largest non-nuclear explosions in history, and it destroyed a substantial segment of Beirut's waterfront.
Among the three dozen individuals that Sawan charged in the investigation were former finance minister Ali Hassan Khalil; former public works minister Ghazi Zeaiter; a second former public works minister, Youssef Finianos; and current caretaker Prime Minister Hassan Diab.
In response, Khalil and Zeaiter filed a formal complaint alleging that Sawan was pursuing political figures in order to satisfy public demands. The court overseeing the case dismissed Sawan last week, finding that he could not be a neutral party because he refused to recognize Khalil and Zeaiter's broad claims of legal immunity - and because his own house was damaged in the explosion.
Sawan's replacement, Tarek Bitar, has served as the head of Beirut's criminal court for the past four years. He was first asked to head the explosion inquiry in August, before Sawan was selected; however, he initially turned it down because of the obligations of his existing role, according to L'Orient Today.
The court's decision to dismiss Sawan has been widely perceived as a sign of the enduring power of Lebanon's political class and its sway over the nation's legal system. Bitar's selection to head up the investigation has been well-received among Lebanese NGOs and civil society groups, but concerns remain about how far he will be allowed to go. "Bitar is one of the young judges of competence and reputation. But it is uncertain if he can carry out his mission without interference or pressure," wrote Nizar Saghieh, the head of NGO Legal Agenda. "The biggest question is, will he return to summoning senior people without stopping at the red line?"

Generated :
After more than 12 hours of testimony, a Lebanese court ruled Tuesday that the lead investigator in the deadly bombing attack on the U.S. Consulate in Beirut should stand trial for his role in organizing it, The Associated Press has learned.
Jahad Marsi faces up to 10 years in prison if convicted of complicity in setting off an Oct. 25, 2012, blast that killed three U.S. Consulate employees and injured 11 people and wounded scores more. Marsi's defense team is arguing that if the trial goes forward, Marsi's office will be included in a closed-circuit video recording of the proceedings.
The sentencing date had been set since last year. It is expected to happen as soon as next week, but Marsi's attorneys had requested that his conviction be overturned. Lawyers have argued they could require additional access to evidence if the trial goes forward.
The 10-member court-appointed appeal panel rejected that request. On Tuesday, the panel even granted the appellate panel's request that Marsi be replaced at the top of the charge sheet because he was given more time to sort out.
Jahad Marsi's trial on Sept. 27, 2012, comes weeks after a near simultaneous bombing. Because it happened in broad daylight, there were thousands of shoppers trapped inside the United Nations and the U.S. Consulate. Authorities arrested hundreds more people, most of them civilians, and a third body of the bombing was recovered.
Investigators determined Marsi, who sat at a desk in the courtroom, and four others were responsible for setting off the explosion. They charged Marsi with two counts of conspiracy, two counts of criminal conspiracy and one count of reckless homicide. Prosecutors had requested a life sentence.
A prosecutor called the timing of the arraignment the proper and necessary decision by the appellate panel.
It was.
Marsi took the stand a day after prosecutors dropped an allegation of obstruction of justice filed by family members of the dead Americans.
The group organizing the attack has denied the claim, saying Marsi was a former police informant, whose safety is a key priority for authorities who seek to raise a flag to declare the attack a terrorist act. They also have pleaded with jurors to convict Marsi, but they have received limited evidence.
The federal prosecutors had also argued that their case had been built on an account of another 19-year-old conspirator, David Mason, who had a pattern of violent behavior and appeared in federal court on those charges.
At his court appearance, Marsi testified he originally planned for the attack "to be in their backyard", in an alleged context describing a moment when he and another man got into a heated argument over family dinners.
Marsi said the others decided to take the money and ride in a limousine because the night before, two of their passengers had left for a safe location and did not know where they were.
(Additional reporting by Roberta Rampton in Los Angeles; Editing by Sandra Maler and Lisa Shumaker)
