Title : Olympic champion Klete Keller pleads not guilty to charges over US Capitol riot

Original :
Olympic swimming champion Klete Keller has pleaded not guilty to seven charges over the invasion of the US Capitol by a pro-Donald Trump mob in January.
The charges against the 38-year-old, who won two relay gold medals as a teammate of Michael Phelps at the 2004 and 2008 Olympics, include civil disorder, disorderly conduct in a Capitol building, and entering and remaining in a restricted building or grounds. Keller entered the not-guilty pleas during a video hearing, and his next court appearance is due on 6 April.
Klete Keller: why did an Olympic champion invade the US Capitol?
Read more
In a criminal complaint, an FBI agent said the 6ft 6in Keller was easy to identify in video of the riot due to his height and the fact that he was wearing his Team USA jacket, “which also appears to bear a Nike logo on the front right side and a red and white Olympic patch on the front left side.”
Keller turned himself into authorities in January and was released without a bond. Keller deleted his social media accounts after news of the charges against him became public. Swimming website SwimSwam reported that prior to the deletion, Keller had written several posts in support of Trump.
In recent years, Keller has spoken about his struggles to adapt after his swimming career ended. “I found the real-world pressure much more intimidating and much more difficult to deal with because I went from swimming to having three kids and a wife within a year and so the consequences of not succeeding were very, very real and if I didn’t make a sale or if my manager was ticked off with me, or If I got fired - oh shoot, you have no health insurance. It’s very concrete,” he told an Olympic Channel podcast.
Trump became the first president in history to be impeached twice, after he incited the mob to invade the Capitol, although he was later acquitted after the Senate fell 10 votes short of the two-thirds majority required to convict high crimes and misdemeanors. Trump baselessly claimed he lost the presidential election because of voter fraud. Five people, including a Capitol police officer, died as a result of the ensuing violence.

Generated :
GETTY Klete Keller has pleaded not guilty to the charges against her in the aftermath of the Washington DC terror attack
The 33-year-old hit back at the prosecutors and claimed there was “no evidence to support” her sex assault charge. Ms Keller, who is on Victoria's Secret's Anti-Discrimination Board, said that the assailant "forcefully dragged him to the ground" but defence lawyer Justin Burgner brushed off claims she was being sexually assaulted. He said: "I think there was only one credible accusation and so what's surprising is that one or two people say what's wrong with me.
GETTY The Washington DC terrorist attack was described as a 'dastardly act' by opponents of the system
“That person has legitimate reasons to say that if my client accused somebody for anything in particular it would be worse than that. “The fact that we have a narrative when we've seen all these things in the media we now have evidence that it is the case that he would have been the act. “You can't witness the evidence that he is a pervert."
A statement given by Ms Keller said that it was for the Klete to respond to the allegations because of her Christian faith. He said: "It is for the judge to decide if she feels guilty for this act." Ms Keller has been in court since 3am on Monday on the charge of first-degree assault of a person below the age of 18 who is not of a political party.
Mr Burgner added that Ms Keller was accused of having committed "sexual conduct or other acts of sexual or similar conduct with the youth or the family at the time of sexual activity". Ms Keller appeared in court wearing a pink brace on her left wrist, wearing a black and white ribbon on her right. Her attorney, lead counsel Steve Palmer, said: "What she's attempting to do is engage in sexual conduct or other acts of sexual or similar conduct with the youth."
EPA Mr Burgner brushed off claims that the attorney was being sexually assaulted
The Crown have opened a case against Ms Keller for sexual assault in connection with the March 8 attack at the Washington Dulles International Airport where a series of violent terror attacks against Muslims in Washington DC. Two gunmen emerged from a large-scale van and opened fire into a crowded area outside the federal building at around 3am.
Several minutes later, a wave of explosions erupted in the parking lot of the Van Buren Federal Building in Pittsburgh where the plane had already taken off. One incident survivor survived the shooting rampage but several others were wounded and taken to the hospital. The attacks took place in the "random disregard for human life", Mr Burgner added.
