Title : Former officer charged in George Floyd's death allowed to leave Minnesota

Original :
The former Minneapolis police officer charged in the death of George Floyd will be allowed to live in a neighboring state due to safety concerns stemming from his involvement in Floyd's death that was caught on video and became part of a rally cry for police brutality around the country.
Derek Chauvin posted $1 million bail and was released from custody on Wednesday. He was allowed to leave the state while he awaits trial, according to new bail conditions outlined in court records. As part of the order, he must keep his cell phone on him at all times.
The Minnesota Department of Corrections has evidence "supporting safety concerns that have arisen" in his conditional release supervision, according to the amended court order filed Thursday and posted on the Hennepin County Court website Friday.
The order did not go into any detail about safety concerns.
Chauvin faces charges of second-degree murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter in Floyd's May 25 death.
Videos of the incident show Chauvin kneeling on Floyd's neck for almost eight minutes as Floyd told Chauvin and three other officers that he couldn't breathe.
Protesters take to streets following release on bond of former officer charged in George Floyd&#39;s killing
Protesters take to streets following release on bond of former officer charged in George Floyd's killing
Floyd's death sparked massive, ongoing protests around the country, and protests against Chauvin's release have taken place in the city over the past two nights.
Chauvin, who was fired from the police department, has no permanent address and "shall establish residency somewhere in the State of Minnesota or a contiguous state as soon as possible and immediately report that address to the conditional release officer assigned" by the state's department of corrections, according to the amended order.
The address will remain confidential, the order said.
Chauvin must have a cell phone with him at all times and answer all calls from the department of corrections, the order states.
He must also surrender his passport and sign four copies of a waiver of extradition.
Chauvin should not be subjected to "greater or less restrictions than would normally be imposed," the order said.
John Stiles, the deputy chief of staff for the Minnesota attorney general's office, said the office had no problem with the amended order.
"We consented to it. We have no objections to it," Stiles said. "We expect the defendant to abide by all the conditions of his release that the court has imposed and to attend all hearings in the trial."
Floyd's family attorney Ben Crump and co-counsel Antonio Romanucci issued a statement Friday that the judge's order "demonstrates how stark the contrast is between the two justice systems in America."
"The police were not concerned about George Floyd's safety even as he was handcuffed, face down on the ground with his breath and life being slowly extinguished," reads the statement. "Yet, the man charged with killing him will roam free across state lines. It's time to recognize and fix the inherent injustice in our systems."
CNN has contacted Chauvin's attorney for comment.
Chauvin has asked a judge to dismiss the charges against him, saying there is no probable cause to support them.
The three other officers were fired and are charged with aiding and abetting second-degree murder and aiding and abetting second-degree manslaughter.
They have also asked that those charges be dismissed.
Chauvin's next court date is set for March 8, according to a notice of appearance.

Generated :
BATTLECROFT, Minn. — A former Fargo Police Department officer accused of killing his wife made a favorable release Wednesday while briefly in custody in Arkansas.
Lt. Jason James Donze – who was fired last month after community comments that he acted wrongly were misleading – is now permitted to leave Minnesota.
Donze’s attorney and deputy prosecuting attorney told the Associated Press that Donze informed authorities he was being held in a single cell in the Ramsey County Jail and that he could not leave for an extended period of time.
“He is in an untested, hidden cell where he will never be allowed to leave for the rest of his life,” said Jake Newman, Donze’s attorney.
He said Donze sought out prison guards to get him out of an infirmary, where a guard could remove his head if the information came back wrong. Donze had no comment Wednesday.
Police said Donze killed his wife, 65-year-old Kenonia Donze, by stabbing her numerous times and then shooting her to death outside their home in September 2015.
When first interviewed by police, Donze’s brother said he didn’t know about the shooting until he saw DNA from Donze’s home that matched his “home DNA.”
Police said Donze told them he killed his wife because his brother asked to learn the truth about her killing. He said she had smoked marijuana during their marriage but that he was not cooperating with authorities, Newman said.
In documents filed with Minnesota’s judicial-watchdog board, Donze’s brother said he told them there was no truth to his brother’s accusations that his brother was supplying Donze with the drugs after Kenonia Donze was shot.
In a sworn statement released last month, he detailed how his brother was wired with money he had delivered to Donze from the Minneapolis airport and on occasions said he was given to take prescription drugs.
A Cook County Criminal Court judge rejected a bid by Donze’s lawyer to drop the charges.
Donze was fired last month, the first time in Fargo police history that an officer was fired after publicly releasing a private information.
Donze resigned from the department after an internal investigation found no violations of department policies that are inconsistent with his discipline history. He said he often worked behind closed doors from a restricted unit of policing, keeping a distance from law enforcement officers.
Donze and his wife in 2007 sued the department in a dispute that resulted in an officer’s firing. A jury later awarded Kenonia Donze $174,000.
Named as defendant were the store clerks in the store that Donze, according to a lawsuit. The complaint also says Donze had received far less money than he had planned to receive for items that Kenonia Donze purchased.
Donze left for private practice with his wife after his brother recommended he get out of the public-services position. After his lawyer, as Donze’s brother did, he remarried but never received a divorce.
Donze bought his third wife a house out of commission in 2012 but did not request the money, and police said they did not find any evidence of it in the three months before the woman filed for divorce.
Named as defendant were the hospital workers in the building where Kenonia Donze was shot and then later Dr. Robert Everitt, who testified that he testified Donze admitted to killing her.
Donze also has another legal battle pending in Minnesota, where the judge ruled he was unfit to serve as a deputy sheriff after former police department supervisor Mike Norton read him a statement from his wife before testifying.
The judge ruled Donze was unfit to work in the sheriff’s office because he made a statement that was prejudicial to county ethics and violated him about his duties as a law enforcement officer.
Scott Somers, former Fargo police sergeant, has since decided to seek a jail term.
