Title : N.J. farmer charged in Capitol attack got paycheck protection loan for business, records show

Original :
The company owned by a Gloucester County produce farmer charged in the Jan. 6 invasion of the U.S. Capitol received a loan through the federal government’s Paycheck Protection Program in the early months of the coronavirus pandemic, records show.
Ezekiel “Zeke” Stecher, of Mantua Township, was charged recently with five crimes related to the riot, including assault on a federal officer and violently entering the Capitol.
He is the principal of Stecher Farms, LLC, on Bridgeton Pike (Route 45), in the Sewell part of Mantua.
The business received $190,080 in April 2020 through the paycheck program, commonly referred to as PPP, according to multiple listings of companies that received the federal funds, including NJ Advance Media.
The PPP is credited with saving countless jobs and keeping businesses afloat as the pandemic shut down major sectors of the country’s economy.
The Stecher Farms loan retained 21 jobs, the listings show, and was funded through Republic Bank.
Businesses apply for the money through local banks and lenders, and they are backed by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). Borrowers may be eligible for loan forgiveness.
As of the end of last year, the PPP disbursed more than $13.7 billion to nearly 156,000 businesses and entities in New Jersey.
An SBA spokesman said the agent does not comment on individual applicants.
An attempt to reach Stecher was unsuccessful, and a woman who answered the phone at the farm this week said he was not there. A public defender represented Stecher at his hearing last week in Camden, but no current lawyer is listed for him in court records. He will be prosecuted in Washington, D.C.
The FBI alleges Stecher stormed into police lines at the Capitol and is seen in videos repeatedly pushing against police as the rioters squeeze and push through a narrow tunnel.
The agency learned of his presence at the Capitol from a video that was uploaded to an FBI tip line on Jan. 18, authorities said. Someone asks a man, “What is your name? Where are you from?” and he replies, “Zeke Stecher from New Jersey,” according to the complaint against him.
The FBI matched images of him at the Capitol with New Jersey motor vehicle records, including the drivers license it had on file for Stecher, an agent wrote in the complaint.
Agents then conducted an in-person interview with a local Sewell farmer who purchased produce from Stecher who said they’d known him for over 10 years. An agent showed the person still images from the video and the person identified Stecher as the man they know as “Zeke,” the FBI says in the complaint.
In 2013, NJ Advance Media’s South Jersey Times featured the Stecher farm. It described how Zeke and his wife Hillary Stecher worked together with their three children. They’d both grown up on farms; Zeke on their land, which had been his family since 1905, and Hillary on one in Burlington County.

Generated :
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. — A Southern New Jersey farmer who shot a former colleague to death outside a North Branch grocery store on Christmas Eve was extended a $5,000 payment protection loan and received the benefits until his legal battle with state officials had all but ended, according to a court filing Wednesday.
Randall Walker, 51, of New Star Township, was sentenced in September on 36 charges, including firing at a state trooper, auto theft and possession of a weapon by a felon. He pleaded guilty last week to a single count of bank robbery and was sentenced to 13 years in prison.
Gov. Phil Murphy referred to some of the evidence in his plea deal with prosecutors and said the case was “very troubling.”
“We did the right thing on all of these cases and the victims were taken away from their lives, and now the criminals are spending a lot of time in prison,” Murphy said in a written statement.
Walker was released on Wednesday after serving an extended sentence.
The filing said Walker found out of the hearing that his legal battle against the state under the Bridge Act had reached a final settlement.
A message seeking comment from the attorney who oversaw Walker’s case was not immediately returned.
In the record, Walker said his decision to turn his life around was “a difficult one,” and that he would not put any off payments. He said he and his son had never shot a trooper and that he didn’t have to wear face coverings — except for one day of camouflage underwear — for the final time, but instead would “give voice to the people who shot my fellow soldier.”
Walker said he was lured into shooting on Christmas Eve when he went to pick up groceries at his Union County, N.J., home. He was shot and wounded at close range.
