Title : Beirut Blast Claims Another Victim 7 Months Later

Original :
Time has passed and seasons have changed since the heart-shattering Beirut Port Explosion. Yet even after 7 months, the tragedy has claimed yet another victim.
The harrowing story of 57-year-old Ardem was told by his cousin, Sanahine Kassabian. Like many Beirut residents, Ardem’s house had suffered considerable damages in the devastating event.
Additionally, he also lost the pet shop he owned, which was located in Gemmayzé just meters away from the port. This left him “mentally and emotionally broken. He couldn’t eat, couldn’t sleep, couldn’t talk,” explained Kassabian.
“A few weeks ago, he was unable to stand up and walk. He observed his own body melting,” she said. When he was transferred to the hospital, it was too late. He couldn’t be saved.
This made him the latest of over 200 victims who died during the blast or after succumbing to injuries sustained in the blast.
However, Kassabian wanted to point out that Ardem’s wounds were not physical. They were not life-threatening in the traditional sense. His wounds were embedded deeply in his heart and soul. And they were eating at him from the inside out.
“Ardem’s case is an example of the long-term consequences of the Beirut blast on the Lebanese people,” she lamented.
By sharing her cousin’s story, Kassabian wanted to shed light on the dangers of the mental and emotional trauma caused by the blast.
“Thousands of people are still suffering from the consequences of this traumatic experience. Mental and emotional trauma can kill people as well,” she cautioned and urged people not to stop talking about Beirut.
“Our battle for life hasn’t stopped. Rest in peace, dear Ardem. You’re in a better place now.”
If you or anyone you know are struggling with mental health, please do not hesitate to reach out for help.

Generated :
PARIS, March 8 (Reuters) - Eleven people were killed and dozens injured after an explosion at a Beirut hotel on Thursday that rocked the city's international airport, officials said.
The blast hit the Marriott hotel on the international airport's outskirts, but was not immediately clear if a second blast was coming from it.
"Security at the airport is doing a thorough investigation," a spokesman for Lebanon's transport ministry told Reuters.
Twenty-five other people were hurt when the blast ripped through a car parked in the car park of the hotel shortly after 8:00 p.m. (0500 GMT).
Two hours later, at 8:35 p.m., more than 20 people were dead, according to Lebanese officials.
Two more bodies have been retrieved from the wreckage, the office of Lebanon's Interior Ministry said.
One neighbor, who said she was in the hotel when the blast occurred, said the occupants and guests were seen rushing out of the building toward emergency vehicles, metres away from the embassy.
The blast knocked the back window of the Marriott Hotel on Saada Avenue outside the internationally condemned capital of Beirut, a popular commercial destination.
Belgian deputy Prime Minister Pierre-Henry Brandet, who is a close ally of Prime Minister Saad Hariri, condemned the attack and called on President Michel Suleiman and the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, to "remove the escalating insult to Lebanon by terrorism".
"I, of course, condemn the terrorist attack in Beirut that hit the Marriott, but I also condemn the kidnapping and killing of Lebanese nationals," he told Lebanese television channel al-Shabab.
Lebanon has seen two deadly attacks in which militants have targeted embassies, but none claimed responsibility.
Tensions between Israel and Hezbollah, Lebanon's two biggest militant groups, have risen since Israel launched an Israeli-backed offensive in Lebanon in 2011. (Reporting by Eric Knecht and Patrick Markey, Writing by Alexander Dziadosz; Editing by Hugh Lawson)
