Title : The Beirut Explosion's Atmospheric Wave Shook the Ionosphere

Original :
The explosion that took place on August 4, 2020, in Lebanon's port city of Beirut is considered to be one of the most powerful non-nuclear, man-made blasts in human history. The crater left in its wake altered the port, the blast killing at least 210 people and injuring 7,500. More than 300,000 were temporarily homeless.
Now, a new study by Hokkaido University scientists in Japan has given us new findings that can be used to judge just how powerful the explosion generated by more than 2,750 tons worth of ammonium nitrate was.
According to the findings published in the journal Scientific Reports, the atmospheric wave that generated from the explosion led to electron disturbances high in Earth's upper atmosphere.
The blast 'shook' the ionosphere
Following the blast, the scientists measured the changes in total electron content in Earth's ionosphere --  the part of Earth's upper atmosphere, from about 30 miles (48 km) to 600 miles (965 km) --  by looking at discrepancies in delays encountered by microwave signals sent by GPS satellites to the ground stations. The press release explains that the changes in electron content affect the microwave signals as they pass through the ionosphere.
"We found that the blast generated a wave that traveled in the ionosphere in a southwards direction at a velocity of around 0.8 kilometers (0.5 miles) per second,” said Kosuke Heki, Hokkaido University Earth and Planetary scientist. When sound waves travel through the ionosphere, they do so at a similar speed.
As the second part of the study, the scientists compared the size of the ionospheric wave generated by the Beirut blast to other waves following natural and anthropogenic events.
It was seen that the Beirut blast's wave was slightly larger than a wave generated by the 2004 eruption of the Asama Volcano in Japan. Beirut blast's southward-bound, high-velocity atmospheric wave rivaled ones generated by volcanic eruptions.
Forensic Architecture, a research team based at the University of London, has also released a comprehensive investigation of the explosion which you can watch if the topic interests you.

Generated :
The deadly explosion in Beirut on March 16 will forever leave a profound impact on Lebanon and around the world. But can our earthquake and earthquake-spreading tides help restore our seismic heritage? Probably, even if you don't want to pose your own existential threat. But a new satellite image released this week shows that the Perseid meteor shower this season is way out over our solar system.
Not to be confused with the Perseid meteor shower that lies among the most enduring scientific phenomena around, it is also one of the most awesome cosmic phenomena ever conceived. And once again, I am convinced that we should celebrate the three-year anniversary of the Perseid meteor shower.
From the simplest of angles, the satellite from the Space Telescope Science Institute, an institution in Baltimore, shows that the Perseid meteor shower has entered the satellite. The image shows that the satellite is in the constellation Perseus, which is less than a mile from the Milky Way galaxy.
In the meteor shower's case, this means the satellite's buoyancy is likely thicker than the gas that the Perseids are stored in. Unfortunately, this might be a problem because the satellite is located far out over the formation of the constellation of Perseus.
There is some other such an issue. The satellite snaps up after sunset, but it didn't snap up before that because it took a few miles to get to its orbit. And whereas the Perseids happen in a very circular formation, the Perseids occur in a orbit around Earth's star. So it would be extremely difficult to photograph the meteors that are going off or bouncing off that star.
We're not alone in our own lack of focus. Wikipedia has had a noteworthy resurgence, growing up among the great astronomical featals such as Scripps Institution of Oceanography (SIO) (in April, it has contributed more than 1,000 images to the video series. And 2015 was a truly epic event. It began with a meteor shower peak at the end of February, and it ended at the beginning of March.
This is a view of the Perseid meteor shower, as seen in the epic video above.
[NASA/MTS]
