Title : Relief efforts continue to aid Lebanon after Beirut explosion

Original :
The devastating explosion in Beirut on Aug. 4 has impacted the Lebanese community both in Canada and abroad.
The Humanitarian Coalition, partnering with several aid organizations, is collecting donations to provide emergency relief to people affected by the tragedy. The Government of Canada will match donations made by Canadians up to $8 million.
Ahmad Araji, Lebanese Club Ottawa president, and his team created a GoFundMe with the goal of raising $30,000 to donate to the Lebanese Red Cross and Lebanese hospitals.
He said that the explosion has impacted the Lebanese community both physically and mentally.
“It’s more than physical, it’s mental trauma for every single Lebanese person whether they’re living in Canada or back home,” Araji said.
Araji encourages people to reach out to members of the Lebanese community to see how they can show their support.
“Ask them how they’re doing, if they need anything, to offer support whether it’s donating to anything they’re organizing here in Canada or anything else,” he said.
Raising awareness through social media, Araji added, is also effective in supporting the community.
“Utilize your social media to spread awareness [about the explosion], and then utilize it to try and raise awareness for the country itself, what’s going on, what the people are going through,” he said. “Then raise awareness to any relief fund that you’re interested in supporting.”
Austin Saghbini, a second-year student studying law at Carleton University said he is thankful for people who have shown support and brought awareness to the issues in Lebanon on social media. However, he has also seen some negative comments where people said Canada should keep the money within the country to help with the COVID-19 pandemic.
“As Lebanese, we love to bring [up] issues that are in Canada and raise awareness […] and create change in Canada, but right now, there was a tragedy, many casualties were lost because of the explosion, so our main goal right now is to find the solution of how to control this whole explosion situation,” he said.
Instead of posting negative comments, Saghbini encourages people to learn about the history of Lebanon, to learn about the economic and political crisis there, and understand how the explosion has worsened the situation.
“There are many problems around the world and we want to bring all these issues up,” he added. “That doesn’t mean one issue is more important than the other… we want to help everybody.”
If people want to bring awareness to issues, he encourages them to contact local politicians.
“Sometimes the best way [to bring awareness] isn’t by doing it in a negative way, but by doing it in a productive way,” he said.
Maher Sinno, a University of Toronto alumnus who double majored in peace, conflict and justice studies and theatre, said that those who wish to make monetary donations could support Islamic Relief Canada, The Lebanese Canadian Coalition in partnership with the Humanitarian Coalition, and Outright Action International.
He added that if monetary donations are not an option, another way people can support the Lebanese community is by amplifying Lebanese initiatives, voices, and artists.
“The art scene still lacks a lot of Arab artists and Arab actors, directors, playwrights,” he said. “That’s another way you can highlight what’s happening in Lebanon.”
To create change for the community, Sinno said that individuals from within the Lebanese community have to be involved in the discussions.
“Always include Lebanese voices in discussions and discourse about Lebanese people and Lebanon and what we want to do about Lebanon,” he added. “A lot of the time people discuss how we can help, but they don’t include Arab folks and Lebanese folks in those conversations.”

Generated :
The relief efforts continue in the wake of the devastating bombing of a military camp in Beirut on Saturday, Aug. 30, 2019.
UNITED NATIONS (JTA) — The morning following a deadly bombing in the southern Lebanon port city of Tripoli has been eclipsed by thousands of prayers, pledges and emotional appeals from residents of the east Beirut region.
The new day of prayer arrived in the city of Sirte, just north of where the refugee camp once stood. Two floors of residential buildings were targeted in the bomb, one of which exploded at a café.
To the east Beirut municipality was also devastated by the blast, which killed 12 people and wounded 42 more.
President Michel Aoun called on the Lebanese people to show solidarity to the United Nations during the full impact of the attacks.
“Our entire country has been struck by a bombing,” Aoun said, according to French news agency AFP. “We cannot imagine that our people have suffered more in such a grave way. We cannot think of a better example to be prepared to go to . . . those who were victims of the bombing, which I consider to be the worst of what has occurred over the past two years and those who stand behind you who are not surprised and whom have stayed strong with you.”
Abbas Mansour Hadi, Lebanon’s justice minister, joined the prayers to create a “maternity hospital” in Sirte to fulfill the international humanitarian mission being undertaken by UN agencies.
On Sunday, local authorities reported that 17 people had been killed and 50 wounded, with the number expected to rise as rescuers move into the city.
On Saturday night, a bridge over the Tigris River collapsed in Tripoli, where many people were trying to escape the aerial bombardment. Ten people died in the explosion, while three were killed by shrapnel.
A local Islamic scholar released a video describing the bombing, where a huge explosion rained an unidentified bomb on a camp in the northern city of Rabaa al-Baraa.
“Death is a test of war,” Mahmud al-Hamoud, the scholar said in the video. “If something happens in this country we will know when it will end. For heaven’s sake the country will be divided.”
Al-Hamoud noted that the fact that 15 people were still missing was testament to the lack of physical proof that the bombing was carried out by militants from Lebanese security forces.
