Title : Biden claims Trump will try to 'steal this election'

Original :
Former vice president and presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden issued a stark warning to voters about President Donald Trump, and his attempts to limit access to voting in November.
“This president's going to try to steal this election,” Biden said in an interview with "The Daily Show with Trevor Noah" Wednesday night.
The comments came after the host asked Biden about the recent Georgia primary election which resulted in long lines for voters after issues with both in-person voting and vote by mail requests.
Joe Biden speaks about the unrest across the country from Philadelphia City Hall on June 2, 2020...Read More
Biden said access to voting was his “single greatest concern,” and was critical of Trump’s efforts to discredit the use of mail-in ballots--a method of voting the president himself had used.
“This is a guy who said that all mail-in ballots are fraudulent, voting by mail, while he sits behind the desk in the Oval Office and writes his mail-in ballot to vote in the primary,” Biden said.
MORE: 'This is not just a Georgia problem': Primary election troubles foreshadow challenges for November
While Biden had previously suggested Trump might attempt to delay the general election, the comments from Biden articulate the most direct warning from the former vice president as the campaign continues to ramp up ahead of November.
The Democratic presidential nominee also told the late night host that he is “absolutely convinced” that the military will "escort" President Trump from the White House if he refuses to leave, alluding to the recent scathing criticism of the commander-in-chief from top former military officials like former Defense Secretary James Mattis and former White House Chief of Staff John Kelly.
“You have four chiefs of staff coming out and ripping the skin off of Trump, and so many rank-and-file military personnel saying, ‘Whoa, we're not a military state. This is not who we are.’ I promise you, I'm absolutely convinced they will escort him from the White House with great dispatch,” Biden said.
Donald Trump makes remarks as he participates in a roundtable with law enforcement officials i...Read More
White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany dismissed Biden’s comments that President Trump would have to be escorted from the White House if he loses in November.
“I think that's a ridiculous proposition. This president is looking forward to November, this president is hard at work for the American people. Leave it to Democrats to go out there and grandstand and level these conspiracy theories,” McEnany told Fox News Thursday morning.
Her comments were echoed by Trump's campaign.
“This is just another brainless conspiracy theory from Joe Biden as he continues to try to undermine confidence in our elections. It was the Obama Administration that tried to subvert an election by spying on the Trump campaign in 2016 and Biden himself was part of the effort to sabotage the incoming Trump Administration because they couldn’t live with President Trump’s victory," Trump campaign communications director Tim Murtaugh told ABC News. "President Trump has been clear that he will accept the results of the 2020 election.”
Biden’s campaign was highly critical when Tuesday’s primary election in Georgia was marred by long lines, voting-machine issues and problems with absentee ballot requests, issuing a statement urging immediate preparations for a November election that has states scrambling to formulate a safe and efficient way to vote in the midst of a global pandemic.
"Free and fair elections are the cornerstone of our democracy. What we see in Georgia today, from significant issues with voting machines to breakdowns in the delivery of ballots to voters who requested to vote absentee, are a threat to those values, and are completely unacceptable,” Rachana Desai Martin, Biden for President National Director for Voter Protection, wrote in a statement released Tuesday.
MORE: Biden targets young voters amid anger over racial inequality in new digital ad
President Trump has consistently claimed, without evidence, that attempts to expand voting by mail will lead to widespread fraud, and argued weeks before the 2016 election that the contest was “rigged” against him.
Biden said Wednesday that his campaign was putting together a “major” legal initiative across the country to monitor and counteract any attempts to interfere with ballot access.
“What do you think that this is about with Trump? This is a major deal,” Biden said, also referencing the slow pace of vote counting in the state of Pennsylvania that could be another harbinger of chaos in November.

Generated :
Vice President Mike Pence celebrated the reelection of President Donald Trump as states continued to fall in line with the Affordable Care Act, insisting that “America is the best country on earth.”
In an interview with Access Hollywood, Trump boasted that Congress passed Obamacare “pay as you go” reform that, in essence, creates a health insurance industry that will “bounce back like a crazy dog.”
“You know how it works. You don’t even know how to pay for it. You do not even know how to give them a good price,” Trump added.
According to the Vice President, the Obamacare reforms all fell far short of what he and other Democrats thought, as states lost almost 90 percent of their Medicaid dollars and as many were cut off by Trump’s birth control law.
“That’s what President Trump is going to do. This is going to be big business,” he said, adding that those giving out Medicaid insurance plans were paying higher premiums because the law does not provide the same amounts of coverage to low-income individuals.
“But Americans need insurance and they need choice. Because if you’re out of work, you can get low-income coverage. You don’t have to pay for it,” he added.
Vladimir Putin, Trump’s top foreign policy adviser, warned that President Trump could take legislative actions to weaken the European Union in his next trip to Washington.
According to reports, Putin did not see Trump coming to Budapest, Hungary to condemn Trump’s remarks, and said: “It’s a very bad idea because the people of the West will always be antagonistic toward Russia. They are not afraid of Russia or any country.”
In a later interview with ABC News, Trump revealed that he is undecided whether to go to New York, where officials there have banned smoking in some restaurants.
Donald Trump tonight condemns #DonaldJtrump attacks on #US of choice right away #TrumpInNOC hashtag pic.twitter.com/aHyn7drdbR — Spencer Ackerman (@SpencerAckerman) June 10, 2018
Trump also claimed that he will not renew his $100 billion nuclear agreement with Iran, which Trump ended in Washington on Monday.
According to the East Room of the White House, Trump reiterated that he would continue his “maximum pressure” on Iran during the meeting in the Rose Garden.
Trump also weighed in on the good tone of the Republican Party and the Republican congressional elections in Georgia, Montana, Washington and Virginia.
