Title : Coronavirus arrived in New York from Europe, at least a month before city's first confirmed case

Original :
Coronavirus was likely circulating in New York at least a month before the city's first confirmed case and was brought to the city by travellers from Europe. Rather than China, where the virus originated, researchers say.
A study led by Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai (ISMMS) researchers, found the virus was likely circulating as early as late January in the New York City area, while the first case of the virus was only identified in the city at the end of February.
New York has become one of the major centres of Covid-19, the disease caused by the Sars-CoV-2 virus, with the death toll topping 5000 by Saturday morning.
More than 5000 people have died in New York as a result of coronavirus infection. Now research is showing the virus was brought to the city by people arriving from Europe.
To find out when the coronavirus reached New York, and where it came from, researchers sequenced 90 Sars-CoV-2 genomes from 84 confirmed Covid-19 positive cases within the Mount Sinai Health System.
READ MORE:
* Coronavirus: 24 hours in the fight to save New York
* Coronavirus: How do viruses mutate and jump to different species?
* Coronavirus: How Germany's early response led to less deaths than European neighbours
The team then analysed those sequences together with all 2363 publicly available Sars-CoV-2 genomes from around the world to determine the most likely origin of the strains infecting the patients involved.
With more than 20,000 cases in the city, they are hoping to get patients into newly built field hospitals as soon as possible.
The analysis indicated "multiple independent but isolated introductions mainly from Europe and other parts of the United States".
"These results show that Sars-CoV-2 came to the New York City area predominately via Europe through untracked transmissions." ISMMS Professor of Microbiology and Infectious Diseases Viviana Simon said.
"Only one of the cases studied was infected with a virus that was a clear candidate for introduction from Asia, and that virus is most closely related to viral isolates from Seattle, Washington.

Generated :
NEW YORK (Reuters) - A bacterial outbreak that forced the evacuation of five New York City public health schools is back in New York, but there have been no reports of illness in the area and no illnesses have been reported.
An image from the Public Health Department's Bronx, New York Department of Health and Senior Health System March 18, 2019. PHD.Handout.org/Handout.go/0
The small outbreak in the Bronx early on Friday caused fear and confusion among officials about whether the city was meeting an imminent danger due to the probable cause of the virus -- a highly contagious form of avian influenza virus that can cause fatal illness.
City Health and Sewerage Department spokesman Rhonda DeLeo said the incubation period for the flu virus was "one week" but "we are still working on what we can do, which is increase supervision."
CDC spokeswoman Ann McCarthen said the outbreak was "linked" to an outbreak in California, where an outbreak of the highly contagious influenza-like illness has been called "deadliest epidemic in human history."
However, Ms McCarthen said the CDC is still analyzing the data of what level of infection affected people. "We're not in a place to evaluate when they are incubating the disease."
A fourth-year public health student at Bronx Public Schools said an ambulance pulled him to the ground where he vomited. "It felt very strange," said Vicky Rodriguez, who is studying criminal justice.
More than 4,500 people in New York City were sickened with the flu last year -- nearly double the city's population in 2017.
Several states have already reported the flu-like illness and health officials have been warning of outbreaks at schools in Maine, Massachusetts, Washington, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Vermont and Virginia.
