Title : Will the death of George Floyd at the hands of white police officer Derek Chauvin mark a turning point in the US?

Original :
Derek Chauvin could never have imagined this day.
An officer in the Minneapolis Police, he responded to a call over a suspected fake $US20 bill used at a grocery store by George Floyd.
In the next few minutes, the policeman with a long history of complaints against him would ensure his place as the most reviled man in the US.
Floyd's killing has galvanised protests not just in his city, his state or his nation, but around the world.
Appearing via video link on second-degree murder charges, Chauvin is in many ways, the last cop of Minneapolis.
Whether the charges stick or not, his fall from grace is complete and permanent.
And by kneeling on the neck of George Floyd for nearly nine minutes the disgraced former officer has forced Minneapolis to radically change the way it will enforce the law in the future.
Minneapolis' terrible past
For years, activists have said the Minneapolis Police Department has a racist and brutal culture that resists change.
Back in 2016, it introduced a "duty to intervene" policy.
An African American man in a cap and a t-shirt with security written across it
But it was only on Friday, after Floyd's death, that officials sought to make it enforceable in court, and to require officers to immediately report to their superiors when they saw use of any neck restraint or chokehold.
Two of the four policemen involved in the killing were rookies, with just a few days on the job.
Questioning their senior officers wouldn't have been easy. But it might have saved a life, and their careers.
Other changes are being made, with Minnesota also launching a civil rights investigation of the department last week.
But Minneapolis City Council members have sought to go even further, pledging to dismantle the city's police department.
Exactly what it is replaced with is unclear. But certainly the people of Minneapolis want change and they're going to get it.
A more community-focused approach is likely but citizens will no doubt also want and need a force that can still respond to robberies, murders, and even traffic accidents.
In effect, it's a brave social experiment. But its supporters will argue something drastic has to change.
It's not entirely without precedence. In New Jersey, the city disbanded its police department in 2012 and replaced it with a new force that covered Camden County.
Should US police departments apologise to black Americans?
For years, US criminologists have discussed whether police departments should be issuing a formal apology for centuries of racist mistreatment of black civilians — similar to Australia's apology to the Stolen Generations.
For example, in 2011, Chief Jim Fealy —a white police chief in the city of High Point, North Carolina — issued a public apology to the black community for historical wrongs perpetrated by the police.
"I know we've let you down. We haven't protected you," he said at the time.
"What we've done hasn't worked. And we've done bad things. We did them with the best of intentions, we were trying to do the right thing, but we've done harm, and I'm sorry."
A National Guardsmen in full combat uniform bumps fists with a smiling young black female protester.
Protesters have told the ABC they want an end to police brutality, to institutionalised racism and a safer, kinder, more equal society.(AP: Alex Brandon)
In 2016, the president of the largest police-management organisation, Terrence M Cunningham, apologised to non-white Americans on behalf of 23,000 police officials.
"While we obviously cannot change the past, it is clear that we must change the future," the head of the International Association of Chiefs of Police said.
"For our part, the first step is for law enforcement … to acknowledge and apologise for the actions of the past and the role that our profession has played in society's historical mistreatment of communities of colour."
Criminologist David Kennedy, who advises the US Justice Department on police issues, told Vox this week that departments couldn't move forward without a "pretty explicit reconciliation process".
"I don't think we're going to be able to build new relationships successfully between black communities and the police until the police say, 'we recognise these facts — whether we were there or not, whether we were around during slavery, reconstruction, Jim Crow, attacks on the Civil Rights Movement, or whether it's more recent things that we have done that you have found disrespectful and untoward, like zero-tolerance policing and high levels of stop-and-frisk'," he said.
"'We have to recognise and acknowledge that very often we have not treated you well.
"'We're going to go out of our way to respect your experience and your views, and we're going to work together to figure out how to do those things differently'."
In Australia, the apology to the Stolen Generations was made by a prime minister.
But the US is led by a man for whom apologies or even using the word "sorry" does not come easily or naturally.
Protesters want real and lasting change
Donald Trump has marked his territory on this issue. He is Mr Law and Order.
He berated state governors for being soft on protesters and threatened to call in the military to quell dissent.
Tear gas and baton charges were used to clear the way for his now-infamous "bible" photo-op outside the White House.
Trump does like to surprise. But a heartfelt appeal to unify the nation and an apology for past wrongs would be out of character.
I watched as countless thousands marched, yet again, in Los Angeles. I asked some of them what changes would please them enough to go home.
They spoke of an end to police brutality, to institutionalised racism. They wanted a safer, kinder more equal society.
They wanted a new America. And they all told me they won't stop these protests until they see real and lasting change.
In effect, many want a social revolution. That doesn't happen overnight or necessarily at all.
A crowd of people holding up signs, some with hands in the air.
There are nine police forces in Australia. In the US, there are 18,000.
Every city, every county, large and small, has their own police department. Each has different training, cultures and leadership.
More than 1,300 people die at the hands, knees or guns of police in America every year. Floyd will add to that number.
What is different about his death is that a white police officer is being held accountable. Protests demanding an end to police brutality and racism have multiplied at home and abroad.
If his killing hadn't been witnessed and filmed by horrified citizens, none of this would have happened.
Floyd's name would likely have been in the Minneapolis papers and on television portrayed as a black man who died while resisting arrest.
Now everyone knows his name. Countless millions watched him die.
It's impossible to tell if this is the turning point demanded by so many or just another expression of anger punctuating the latest outrage before the next act of police brutality.

Generated :
Metro: Love everything about its Muslim community.
Ahmeduddin, who was taken into custody in Milwaukee, is a United States citizen. He is half a moustachioed Muslim and has been living with his family in the town of St. Louis since last year.
Cline, a young deaf man, was arrested for resisting arrest when officers approached him just after 9am on June 5. The magistrate assigned the warrant to him, as he claimed, and took him into custody without incident.
Related: Los Angeles man detained after using disabled wheelchair in getaway car
According to news reports, the guardian was Julie Henry and she was also a family friend. She told the media that she was working with Henry and “with Great Falls (state police) out there yesterday” on two-wheeler motorbikes in the area when she saw the pair get into their driver’s side car.
“What was a drag race between them as I was trying to cross the tracks on a car seat,” she recalled.
Henry doesn’t believe Chauvin is guilty and said, “it’s understandable people would want to dig them out of the picture and look to God to get rid of them.”
Per the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, Chauvin wasn’t in the driver’s seat at the time but was soon pulled over after a crowd gathered outside his side stop just before midnight. Officers tried to pull the driver off, and apparently discovered a rifle in the driver’s seat of the car.
“He got out and blew me smoke,” Henry said. “I was hoping I saw him getting out.”
Chauvin faces misdemeanor charges of involuntary manslaughter, resisting an officer and obstructing a search, according to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.
The Milwaukee Police Department is releasing a statement, saying, “The Milwaukee Police Department will not tolerate the misuse of violence to serve another’s purpose or create a separate administration for police officers if, and only if, it undermines the Constitution of the United States.”
Oh yes.
Are you surprised by the tone of Franklin County Judge Michael van der Woude’s announcement that no charges would be filed against Chauvin? We have a full list of what he did during the time he was detained, including his initial statement.
He then obtained a warrant, which county officials now want us to stop sharing:
“This is a temporary issue that I believe should be resolved by the end of the process and let Mr. Chauvin be treated fairly.”
Why? Because he is a Muslim and he and his family live in a disabled state. He doesn’t think that he should be punished for exercising his civil rights.
On that front, you had to ask: Why does the ACLU want to find out who’s at fault for booking the man?
As the story was unfolding, they got to the bottom of things, so Sheriff Mark Aksman’s statement was updated on June 11.
In a post titled “We do not disagree about his right to peaceful assembly…” they thanked community members for their concern, and also reiterated that Chauvin is a peaceful Muslim who doesn’t believe in violence but who doesn’t believe in abductions of Muslims.
“This trip to Milwaukee by Al-Jazeera reporter, as documented, does not warrant a suspension of all jail time,” the statement concluded.
Now that he’s been killed in custody, do you think a different kind of justice can be served? Check out our gallery of photos and videos, right here.
